ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u4	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 9.56 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.36 a.m. and resumed at 9.56 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u6	Senator Santangelo, would you like to intervene? SANTANGELO (M5S). No. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u9	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, she was probably distracted because she looked across the hemicycle. I had raised my hand and, therefore, I formally request you to check the quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u10	I'm sorry, Senator Candiani, it's no longer possible. I apologize if I haven't seen her, but I don't think anyone's seen her. I apologize again: I have not been told, otherwise you know that I would have given you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:58 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u13	I inform you that, as already communicated to the parliamentary groups, at the question time scheduled for tomorrow at 4 p.m., the Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Dr Galletti, will answer questions on the following topics: issues relating to waste management, climate change and energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u14	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2081, 14, 197, 239, 314, 909, 1211, 1231, 1316, 1360, 1745, 1763, 2069 and 2084. I call the President of the Second Permanent Commission, Senator Palma, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u15	Madam President, the examination of the draft law on civil unions, which altogether engaged the Commission in some 70 sessions, including the round of hearings held in the Bureau, began on 18 June 2013, i.e. just under a month after the Commission was set up and, initially, Senators Cirinna and Falanga were co-rapporteurs of the measure. This examination concerned the draft law no. 15, 197, 204, 239, 314 and 393. In the session of 2 July 2013 the examination of the draft law no. 197, 239 and 314 were separated from the examination of the other draft laws. When examining these draft laws (Nos. 197, 239 and 314), in subsequent sessions, held between December 2013 and April 2014, was then jointly examined the draft law n. 14, for which the 4a On 24 July 2013, the Commission issued a favourable opinion with a recommendation, and no. 909, 1211, 1231 and 1360. Senator Cirinna, who in the meantime became the only rapporteur, at the outcome of the majority change, on 8 April 2014, presented to the Commission two sets of unified texts: the first for draft law no. 14, 197, 239, 314 and 909, on the subject of the discipline of cohabitation pacts and de facto cohabitations. The second, for the draft law no. 1211, 1231 and 1360 on the regulation of civil unions between persons of the same sex. On 24 June 2014, the examination of a further draft law, No. 1316, was carried out. On 2 July 2014, the rapporteur proposed the correct, unified text scheme, which brought together the themes covered by the two previous schemes, was published. A wide range of hearings took place in the Bureau from 13 January to 19 February 2015. On 24 February 2015, the examination of the drafts of law was resumed with the conjunction of the examination of two further drafts of law, No. 1745 and No. 1763. Subsequently, at its meeting on 17 March 2015, a new unified text was presented by the rapporteur, following the presentation of an alternative unified text, proposed by Senators Caliendo, Falanga, Malan and Cardiello, at its meeting on 25 March 2015. On 26 March, the Commission adopted as its basic text the text which was last submitted by the rapporteur and set the deadline for tabling amendments on 7 May 2015. On 15 April 2015, the unified text received a non-obstacle opinion with comments from 14a Commission and on 12 May 2015 a favourable opinion with comments from the 1st Commission. As of 9 June 2015, an illustration of the first block of amendments tabled, some 3,600, 800 of which were withdrawn before the beginning of the examination, began. Of the remaining 2,800, the Presidency of the Commission has declared the impossibility or inadmissibility of 1,461 amendments. Following the rapporteur's submission of three new amendments, 279 sub-binding proposals were tabled and of these 110 were declared inadmissible or inadmissible by the Presidency of the Commission. On 7 and 14 July, the first Commission opinion on the amendments was received: partly contrary to, partly non-obstacle with conditions, partly non-obstacle with observations, partly non-obstacle, while it was awaiting the opinion of the Budget Commission on the unified text and amendments, having the Budget Commission requested the Government to submit a technical report in order to assess the financial coverage of certain forecasts contained in the unified text. Needless to say, the Commission could not proceed to the vote on the amendments in the absence of the opinion of the Budget Commission and without obtaining the technical report of the Government for this purpose submitted by the Budget Commission itself. On 29 July 2015, the above-mentioned opinion of the Budget Commission was therefore received: non-obstacle, conditional, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the text, and non-obstacle and partly contrary, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, on the amendments, followed by the submission of a new amendment by the rapporteur with financial cover and three new sub-emerging proposals. Once the new opinion of the Budget Committee had been obtained, the vote on the amendments was moved to the stage, which began as soon as the summer recess of the Senate's work was completed, which saw the Justice Commission engaged for thirteen sessions, at which 318 amendments were examined. Of these, two were adopted, 74 were rejected, while the remaining were withdrawn or declared to be dead or foreclosed, which is to say that a total of 318 amendments were adopted at the thirteen sittings. A further 578 amendments were withdrawn on 8 and 9 October. It should be recalled, with reference to the number of sittings (Thirteen, beginning early September this year), that the Commission's work has been seriously stalled as a result of the timetable for constitutional reforms in this House, because, due to the formation of that calendar and often the simultaneous meeting of the parliamentary groups with regard to constitutional reform, the meetings which had already been held have been disconcerted. Finally, during the night session on 12 October, the examination of three other draft laws was initiated (the draft law nn. 2069, 2081 and 2084) which have been combined with the draft laws already mentioned in the examination. It should be noted that, at today's date, if we were still in the Commission, 518 amendments would remain to be voted on. I believe that my report, in keeping exclusively with the progress of the work, must necessarily stop here and cannot in any way concern the measure which the Conference of Leaders has indicated as a basic text. However, as a result of some of the speeches that took place yesterday, I would like to say that I find the criticism that some people have made to the Commission that they have not committed themselves to such a measure absolutely ingenious. This very delicate measure has been under discussion for two years. All the draft laws that have been presented have been brought together and related, and the issues have been dealt with at the stage of the general discussion. Of course, I have to say that if there had not been an exasperated deepening of all the amendments in the Commission, there would probably have been more room for discussion and a more serene debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Palma's report, bill No 2081, taken as the basic text of the Conference of Leaders, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text of the proposer without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, as assessed yesterday.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u18	You have the floor, but I would remind you that you cannot open a debate unless you wish to speak on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u19	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I would like to say that it remains with the acts which we consider this procedure to be totally illegal, because it has deleted Rule 72 of the Constitution and Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure, because the new text on which we are to speak has not been considered in the Commission at all and no member of the Commission has been able to discuss it. The Rules of Procedure set a deadline of two months and the constitutional principle says that only one measure examined in the Commission can go to this House. Having said that, the President can only shorten the time limits: here the time limits have not been shortened, but reset. So we are going to start an unusual procedure, unprecedented, which deletes an article in the Constitution. I repeat that we believe this procedure to be totally illegal.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u22	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to stress that the draft law - I remember that the article of the Constitution says "Every draft law" and not "every subject" - which the Conference of the Leaders, by majority and against the Rules of Procedure, wanted to bring to the Chamber, was deposited on 6 October, was brought to the attention of the Commission two days ago and the Commission's attention consisted in the simple report (for the truth well done) carried out by the rapporteur, who is also the first signatory to the draft law. Therefore, the examination in the Commission has been reduced to the mere report on its content. The fact that the subject has been discussed for some time may have its weight, but the Constitution is clear, as is the Rules of Procedure: there has therefore been an open violation here. The measure was simply briefly related (in five minutes) to the Commission. If this is considered the way to apply the Constitution, there is little to be quiet about. Already on constitutional reform there was not even one vote (and this is also against the Constitution), but at least it was possible to talk about it; in this case, however, it was not even possible. Madam President, it should be noted - I would add - that there have been a number of entries speaking, taken by those who presided over the Commission. Vice-President Casson noted the various entries to speak and added that the speeches could take place following the debate, but no one could speak, not even for a second, about the measure that is being examined by the Assembly: an act of force not against those who oppose this measure, but against the Constitution and against the Rules of Procedure the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u23	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1559. I would remind you that at the afternoon sitting on 16 September the rapporteur gave the oral report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u24	Madam President, I do not intend to reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u25	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u26	Madam President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u27	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u28	I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u29	Having been accepted by the Government, the G1 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u32	BONFRISCO (CoR). Madam President, we are examining and voting on a measure which intends to intervene (even if late) on legislative decree 58 of 1998, the so-called TUF (single text of finance) and, in particular, on the activity of personalised assistance carried out by intermediaries, mediated a wide range of services, often complex, in favour of those who want to invest a share of their resources in the financial market. This is an activity which, starting from 2007, is defined as investment advice by the MiFID Directive, which does not constitute a new type of activity: it was already provided for by Law No 1 of 1991, which included it among the securities intermediation activities (what we now call investment services) reserved for banks and so-called SIMs; it constitutes, however, an innovation in the relationship between intermediary and investor. The globalisation of financial markets and the increasing variety and complexity of products continue to make investors' choices dependent on intermediaries' suggestions. But the former can no longer be the instrument (often unconscious) in the hands of the latter, due to the obvious contiguity between advisory and management services. It is necessary, in our opinion, to raise the level of protection for the saver, his awareness of the risks (many times hidden) he meets when they face an investment. It is therefore necessary to increase the transparency and clarity of the activity of the various intermediaries, also with respect to the role played, which has a significant impact on the allocation of savings: one thing is the promoters, another is the consultants and, among them, those who provide advice instrumental to the sale of certain financial products and those who, instead, provide independent advice (i.e. in the exclusive interest of the customer and paid by him) both as a natural person and as a company. It is a significant novelty, which we consider of particular importance in our financial landscape, which became operational with great effort and after several attempts only in 2009, with the entry into force of Articles 18-a and 18-ter of the single text of finance; instead, the planned establishment of a special register of natural persons, within which to form a specific section for companies, held by a special body, has remained on paper. Since 2009, the regulatory path has been marked by the alternation of provisions and derogations, the only result of which has been to bring the register to a dead track due to the lack of constitution of the organism. To this, however, it intends to refer to the measure that we are discussing with the amendments made by Article 58 of the TUF. It proposes a kind of reorganisation of the system, based essentially on a single register of financial advisors, in which the consultants (natural and legal persons) join together, as well as the current financial promoters, who assume the diction of financial advisors qualified for the off-site offer, on the basis of the consideration, expressed in the introductory report, for which the current definition of financial promoter, linked to promotion and placement, is exceeded by market practice which, using the off-site offer as one of the means of providing the advisory service, ensures the application of the legislation on adequacy to protect the saver. The maintenance of this register is entrusted to a new body, of associative type, with legal personality, supervised by CONSOB, to define and verify the implementation of the principles according to which the body must operate. Of course, it would have been better to make the system defined by Articles 18-a and 18-b of the TUF operational, which would certainly have made more clarity than the three different figures of intermediaries. Perhaps, just to the customers less able to correctly select the possible risks may not be completely clear the difference between the new figure of promoter and that of the consultant! At this point, however, the thrust of the Commission's dismissal is well, a solution which I believe is acceptable, if only because it fills the gap that has been created and which for far too long has remained in a situation of financial crisis as worrying as ever. However, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me more interesting than the content of this measure. Presented in July last year, it was examined in November when the deadline for tabling amendments was set and then postponed. In January of this year the rapporteur presented an amendment on which the Government expressed a favourable opinion and, after some referrals, rewritten a couple of sub-amendments submitted by the oppositions, on which the Government expressed its favourable opinion. So we arrive at 5 August when the Commission dismisses the text to the attention of this House. That text, however, is nothing more than the re-imposition of an amendment adopted at the last budgetary session, which has found no room within the now traditional maxi amendment approving the Stability Act. Ten months have passed to build a text on which there had already been a positive assessment, the same one that seems to be expressed today by political forces, since no amendments have been tabled. Today, therefore, the Senate should deliver to the House a text on which the other branch of Parliament could agree in a short time. But will this text ever become law, Mr. Undersecretary, or will we have to wait any longer? It would seem trivial questions, however, doubt seems legitimate, given the time we have taken. I recall, in fact, that the law n. 114 of 2015, the law of European delegation 2014, approved by the Chamber on 2 July last, in Article 9 contains, among others, a delegation to the Government (the one for the implementation of Directive n. 65 of 2014, on markets in financial instruments) concerning financial advisors and financial promoters, which in essence should be brought together in a single register, held by an associative body and with legal personality. So the question is: what will happen after the Senate vote? Will the measure continue its process in the House or will it stop because the Government will want to implement the delegation? And in this case how long will it take? All this takes place in front of MiFID II which, since January 2017, should revolutionise the sector, with the stated objective of strengthening the protection of investors "per minute" with specific measures on financial products, also providing for a greater specification of the independent advisory service and strengthening the obligations of communication to customers. Will the famous phrase that "Everything is late in Italy, when it comes to starting a job, or everything is early when it comes to stopping it" be right? I would remind you that, in addition to the technical assessments and the excellent work of the rapporteur and the entire Commission chaired by Senator Marino, this text comes to fruition at a time when the strong transformation and restructuring that the banking sector will be forced to do, including the latest innovations in European surveillance, allow the horizon to be opened to a very large number of personalities and professionalism that could emerge from the banking world and, in this way, be able to find, thanks to the work carried out by the Senate, as quickly as possible other placements. New markets are opening up, which we must encourage, including for the relocation of these people. That is why our vote will certainly be in favour. [[Applause from Senator Bruni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u35	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Madam President, we too believe that it is necessary and appropriate to regulate the role and activity of financial advisors after the Financial Promoter Register was established in 2007. This is certainly a late intervention compared to the expectations and demands of those who work in the sector. And it is good that Parliament does so in the face of delays on the part of the Government. And let's hope the iter goes on. The solution identified, which has to some extent upset the original text of the proposal submitted to the Commission and which establishes a single register, although divided into three separate sections (financial advisors qualified for off-premises, natural independent financial advisors and financial advisors), leaves some concern, because the figures of the promoter and consultant do not appear clearly distinct and this risks creating confusion. However, we consider it essential to create a guarantee system for investor protection, ensuring appropriate professional requirements for financial advisors. For these reasons, the Northern League Group will abstain on this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u38	Mr Barani (AL-A). Madam President, I am now announcing my Group's vote in favour of this measure, which we believe is important, because it fills a vacuum that we have always felt should be covered. We cannot understand the criticisms that are being made of a measure that is required and heard. We all realize that it was necessary, but we always want to find the hair in the egg, with the fact that the iter is too long and it had to be done first. We do so now, and we believe that colleagues in the House will schedule it as soon as possible because the proposal contained in the only article of the provision is necessary and is obviously long overdue, namely the establishment of a single register, managed by a single body, with legal personality under private law, ordered in the form of an association, in line with the model chosen by the legislator in other areas of the law. The body for the management of the lists of financial agents and credit brokers, the setting up of a single register, has three separate sections that the rapporteur, Senator Ricchiuti, whom I thank, has well understood and explained to the House with regard to the type of activity carried out by the parties, who assume the following names: the financial advisors qualified for the off-site offer (the current financial promoters), the independent natural financial advisors (the current financial advisors) and the financial advisors. With this bill composed of a single article articulated in paragraphs and with the transitional provisions, we believe that the passage of competence from CONSOB to the register, with the process that will have to follow, and the control of the Ministry of the economy ensure the proper functioning of the register itself and above all guarantee the citizen who addresses it providing all the prerequisites for not being deceived and the fact of having serious and certain professionals in front, who can provide the right professional advice. Our vote on this draft law - as I have said and I shall end, also because those of us who were in the Commission have already voted for it - will be in favour. We believe that weeping on this bill is certainly no good to anyone and much less to our economy. Finally, as Senate, we do our duty by approving it and sending it to the Chamber of Deputies, hoping that it will soon be converted into law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u41	CHIAVAROLI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, the People's Area Group will vote in favour of this measure, first of all because of the method: it is, in fact, a draft law of parliamentary initiative, which has found the Commission's finances protagonist in its drafting. Bringing a text of this initiative to the House after a year of work is a good result, because we all know the conditions under which our Commissions operate and how urgent they are overwhelmed. I would therefore like to thank President Marino, who very much wanted the measure to be brought to the House, together with his colleagues from the Finance Committee and the rapporteur, Mrs Ricchiuti, with whom we had a peaceful debate, including by improving the text initially proposed by the Commission. With regard to the substance of the measure under consideration, it is a very technical text that puts order in a discipline that, despite being so technical, will have a great impact on savers. We believe that good standardisation, although of such a specific nature, is of great value to everyone. Always in the merit, it is a provision that intervenes on the supervision of the entire section of financial advice, unifying the register that - as it has been explained by all - is divided into three sections, whose supervision is entrusted to a new body with legal personality of private law, while CONSOB remains the task of regulating and supervising such body. Another rule is contained in the measure which we consider important that CONSOB should be entrusted with the task of issuing a regulation for disputes between the category and final consumers which, in the interests of the latter, can also clarify this discipline. We therefore believe that, through this reorganization, there will be clarity in standardisation and transparency in an area in which savers have unfortunately been affected by the negative consequences not only of the financial crisis but also of the lack of clarity of regulation. For all these reasons, the vote of the People's Area Group will be firmly in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u44	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, the Senate Act 1559 on the reorganization of financial advice is a measure which was born with the best intentions and has had a very long gestation in this House. The good intentions, as stated in the explanatory report, were to rationalise the system of supervision of financial promoters and financial advisors through amendments to the single text of the provisions on financial intermediation, legislative decree of 24 February 1998 n. 58. It is true that it is planned to set up a single register managed by a single body in this field which is similar to the model laid down in other areas of our legal system. However, it is also foreseen to rename the individuals who will be included in the single register. Those that are currently the financial promoters will be defined as financial advisors qualified for the off-site offer. At first glance it may seem a merely formal or lexical issue, but it is enough to explain briefly the difference between promoters and financial advisors to prove that this is not the case. In fact, while a financial promoter is a person acting under the mandate of a financial intermediary - such as, for example, a bank - trying to sell certain financial products - in short, he is a bit like a seller - the financial consultant, on the other hand, is a person who cannot be employed by a company, but is remunerated by its customers in exchange for the investment advice he provides. [[Brusio]] Colleagues, if possible, I ask you to lower your voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u45	Colleagues, if we all lower the tone of our voices, we can speak and understand.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u46	BOTTICS (M5S). In short, the financial advisor is an independent professional. At this point it should be clear why the new names introduced by this bill are not merely nominal changes, but something much more dangerous. In fact, they can easily cause confusion in the saving client, causing him to feel that he is facing an independent professional rather than a person acting on a specific mandate of a certain financial intermediary. And I would like to remind you that some lawsuits stem precisely from the fact that the financial promoter had contracts signed outside his home, while he was supposed to abide by certain rules. With this new rule you will be able to do so and, therefore, the saver customer will be even more deceived. In the draft law under consideration, however, some... [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] It is really difficult to speak with this buzz, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u47	I don't know what else to do, more than call constantly. Go ahead, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u48	BOTTICS (M5S). I see how much interest there is in this matter, since we took charge of it a year ago. It was a long delivery, let's put it this way. The sanctioning system has been increased for transparency, but it is always little. It should also be stressed that the regulation to regulate the functioning of the supervisory body and to keep the single register will be adopted at CONSOB's sole discretion. It would have been more appropriate for this regulation to be adopted, perhaps always on a proposal from CONSOB, but according to the provisions of Article 17 (2) of Law No 400 of 1998, which provides that the regulations are adopted by decree of the President of the Republic, after resolution of the Council of Ministers; then the Council of State may also be heard, after the opinion of the relevant parliamentary committees. Another problem in this bill is the amendment to paragraph 8 (b), which provides for the replacement of conciliation procedures provided for in Legislative Decree No 179 of 2007 by the procedure for the out-of-court settlement of disputes governed by CONSOB. Although it is true that it is the conciliation provided for in Legislative Decree No 179 of 2007 that the procedure of out-of-court resolution of CONSOB are both alternative methods of dispute resolution, the so-called ADRs (Alternative dispute resolution), it should be pointed out that, while the first is governed by a law, the second is entirely referred to the regulatory action of CONSOB. Therefore, although at first instance, the protection of the saver is restored to the regulatory action and discretion of CONSOB. Senator Ricchiuti recalled, presenting an agenda, that paragraph 1-a of Article 5 of Legislative Decree n. 28 of 2010 is a transitional rule with effect for four years: after the first two years, a monitoring of the results of such experimentation, i.e. mediations, should have been carried out, which never appears to have been done, but the transition to mediation is made mandatory, without knowing if this institution works. A flood of beautiful and ugly things: the 5 Star Movement, therefore, can only refrain from voting on this bill. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u51	SCIASCIA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the measure under consideration, promoted in 2014 by several political parties and substantially amended by the Senate Finance Commission, aims to supplement the provisions of Part Two of Legislative Decree No 58 of 1998, i.e. the single text of the provisions on financial intermediation. I remember that the financial intermediation sector has had exponential growth over the last decade and is currently employing a few thousand operators. Hence the need to renew the obsolete legislation that regulates the sector not only to regulate the activity of operators, but also to give reliable references to customers. The measure has already been extensively explained by the rapporteur. In a nutshell, it amends the former supervisory body, the sole register of financial promoters, which is transformed into the new single register of financial advisors, whose members - I recall - are essentially of elective origin of consultants from their professional associations. And it's under the control of CONSOB. Specific rules are laid down for the registration and application of penalties for irregularities committed by members, with the institution of an out-of-court dispute settlement procedure with customers, which is very important and innovative. A government concession fee of EUR 168 has also been introduced for new entries, since the members of the old register will automatically pass into the new institution without charge. I should like to conclude that this is a long-awaited measure for the entire intermediary sector. Therefore, the Forza Italia Group votes in favour. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u54	MARINO Mauro Maria (PD). Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law for which I am voting in favour on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party is the result of a parliamentary initiative which has collected, since the beginning of the legislature, the demands of those who see the regulation and rationalization of the register of persons entitled to propose financial instruments as a useful tool in order to increase the transparency of financial operators and, by this way, to better protect savers. The lesson of the financial crisis, which on other fronts of greater scope and scope has induced and imposed a wide revision of the banking and financial rules, has suggested to intervene in a specific and limited segment of the financial activity, but that it has significant reflections in the relationship between the saver and qualified subjects, today defined "financial promoters" and tomorrow in the new denomination "consultants entitled to the offer out of office." Mrs Ricchiuti's report and Senator Rossi's general intervention have focused on the technical specifications of the proposed standards and on the rapporteur, as well as on the Commission as a whole, because it was objectively a choral work, give her appreciation for the work she has done. I would like to reiterate on this occasion a concept that I have already expressed last in the examination of the draft law on the delegation of trusts and, before that, on the law of tax delegation. Parliament's legislative initiative is - I would say again - an important and important channel for the work of each Member of Parliament, beyond the obvious and undisputed primacy of the Executive in the implementation of the Government's direction. I would like to emphasise this more than ever also in the light of the statements made by some of my colleagues now. Perhaps, in seeing the glass half full and not half empty, in the will and determination of the Commission and Members of Parliament I still find the element of affirmation - which has also happened for other measures - of Parliament's will to assert its primacy in the legislative field. In the specific context of the measure under consideration, it was necessary to translate into a draft law the themes and solutions which had been developed in a different context such as that of the iter of a decree-law, whose rigid links, in terms of timing and consistency of content, have not allowed the adoption of amendments of similar content to that of the draft law. Once the process had started, it was, moreover, given the opportunity for a positive examination in the Commission of an amendment in the examination of last year's draft stability law (this is the reference made by Senator Bonfrisco). Again, an assessment which is not appropriate for legislative intervention has hindered its adoption. In summary, the legislative solution had also been identified and agreed with the most directly involved parties and various procedural instruments had been used (even without a result), despite the unanimous agreement to achieve an objective that was considered relevant and to which the previous speakers have already referred. I acknowledge that the Government has followed up on the commitments made several times in the Commission to enable the process to be concluded. But it is clear to me that there is a case of parliamentary stubbornness and stubbornness - I say this in positive terms - to which all the groups have contributed. Moreover, the failure to table amendments to the House makes it clear that we share the method, on the one hand, and on the substance, on the other. It must be taken into account - it has remembered, perhaps with a hint of concern, Senator Bonfrisco - that the law 9 July 2015, n. 114 (the law of European delegation with principles and guiding criteria for the implementation of the communitarian directive n. 65 of 2014 on the markets of the financial instruments), to article 9, letters a) and u), brings provisions in the matter of revision of the register of the promoters and the financial advisors. This is a further way to intervene with law on this matter and I hope that the time for consideration of the House of Members will be absolutely fast - in this sense I said before that I want to see the glass half full - precisely to affirm Parliament's legislative primacy. And I hope that, once the process in the Senate has been completed, the time for examination in the other branch of Parliament will enable the draft law to be adopted quickly and definitively. He wondered whether this was a request from the Senate Commission or a personal wish. My statement is to be a simple response to what was said on 9 July last by the President of the Financial Promoters' Register, on which it is worth reflecting. She said: We hope that by the end of the year the legislator will be able to conclude the process envisaged for the approval of these rules so necessary to achieve the full protection of the saver and its propulsive participation in the real economy and entrepreneurship in particular (...). Further procrastination of the transitional situation that the sector has undergone for eight years would reveal a failure of our system, which is not compatible with the Community regulatory dynamics for the protection of investors and the market. What better way than these words gives a sense of the need to intervene with reform in this area? These words were spoken by the person himself who was in a state of reform. I am convinced that the division of roles between legislative and executive still has its own theoretical and intellectual legitimacy, as well as politics by which I do not tell the Government to abdicate or weaken its role of primary direction, but I stress that the work in the Commission on specific areas of technical content remains an essential requirement of legislative work. If the government does the government - as I like to repeat and often hear the commissioners say - and Parliament does the Parliament, it benefits the institutional system as a whole and the legislative product improves, finding itself more in line with the expectations of the stakeholders. I believe that this measure adds a further stage to a path that has started very far away. It began in 1985 with the regulation of home selling of real estate values, and then developed with the so-called SIM Act of 1991, the Eurosim Decree of 1996 and the MiFID Directives of 2004 and MiFID II of 2014, of which the implementing rule is now being defined which - as Senator Bonfrisco recalls - will enter into force in 2017. I like to remember all this not only for historical memory, but also to demonstrate that, slowly, in this period, it has confirmed itself and imposed itself - and, therefore, in this I also feel to respond to the notations of Senator Bottici - the passage of the networks from the solicitation activity to home of the public saving to an effective activity of consulting to the investor, from a logic centered on the specific product marketed to a centered on the total service rendered to the customer. It is a virtuous model, which builds its strength on customer satisfaction and marries with an increasingly targeted regulation for investor protection. This is the theme that has moved the Commission's action as a whole, regardless of the individual political parties. And this has been more necessary than ever, since since 2007 - I stress since 2007 - there has been a continuing tolerance for the transitional provision of the advisory service to savers by persons who have been deprived of any form of public control, solely because of the inability to set up an autonomous body for the category. As we begin to conclude, beyond this specific intervention, we believe that it is necessary to embrace this issue with a general vision, with regard to the vocational and ethical training of financial advisors, to marry with the professional and cultural growth of the financial consultant. The financial promoter is now aware of being the main channel for the transmission of financial information to customers. The role of promoters has therefore evolved in favour of financial advice and there is already only in this response to Senator Bottici's concerns. And, above all, this comes from the respect of the strict expectations of compliance to guarantee a always fully informed and aware saver of the characteristics of the financial products offered. All this, however, is not enough, because one must necessarily accompany the financial education of the client. In conclusion, I would like to mention here the draft law which was incardinated in the 7th Commission, which concerns financial education. The education of savers is one of the key elements in the investor protection strategy and is essential to increase the effectiveness of supervisory action. A public financial education policy helps to make savers aware of their investment choices. It is, therefore, two sides of the same coin and to have an overall vision. Today the savers are more informed and aware of their investments and we hope they are even more confident: it is, in fact, a mass of almost 4,000 billion euros. In savers, however, the awareness of the role of the consultant and the importance of his assistance activity has also been consolidated, with a view to an optimal allocation of their savings. With the approval of the measure under consideration, Parliament not only carries out a small reform but also makes a significant contribution to the sector, but it also contributes to a process of financial maturity which - I am sure - will be reflected positively in the country, finally completing a process that has been waiting to be carried out for eight years. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u57	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, this bill was mandatory and normative, given the negative results on citizens of all speculative finance. We have been waiting seven years and here I say that if I were to vote now, I would also agree. What is my perplexity, then, and why will I abstain from voting, hoping to convince my colleagues in the Group to which I belong? I have already expressed my opinion in the Commission and I have also tabled amendments, which I did not come back to this House, and not because I am convinced that this is an impossible thing, but simply out of resignation, because I have now realized that it is quite useless: when you have certain convictions against those of the majority in the Commission, we in the minority can also avoid doing this job. What are the reasons? They are serious, because in reality, according to an OECD survey, we are the first: Italy is the first with 47%. And I am saying this with an extreme criticality: it is one of the first times in an OECD survey we are first; Mexico is 43%, while the USA is 20%. But in what are we the first and what is our pride? I am aware that I have not yet said the magic word, which is functional illiteracy. What does that bad word mean? It is an important word and means that, when you read a page, 47 percent of Italians do not know what they have read, they do not know how to repeat what they have read. So if I were to vote, I could vote in favour, but do we have the primacy and who do I represent in this House? Me? No. I represent those who cannot read or those who do not understand what they read. That is why I tabled an amendment, which was actually just a provocation because I asked the President for help; we are looking for names and names that are representative and that make the average Italian understand who we are in front of. We're looking at a promoter, a promoter. I've seen the definition: it's the bank's stalks that come out and enter your house. The financial consultant is an independent professional - in fact, the promoter is also a professional, but not independent - and is paid by the customer. Then I have to make the simplest and stupidest example to make it clear: we have the promoter of the drug and the pharmacist. The pharmacist is in front of all the medicines, and to me that I have a sore throat gives not a calming (because I have a sore throat, in fact), but what I need. The drug promoter actually promotes his company, from which he is paid, and tells the pharmacist to choose what he produces. This was the original, ontological difference of the derivation of the term. Now, with 47 percent of Italians who do not understand and do not know how to repeat the page they read, I wonder how those people - and they are the weakest, but they also have the money because they save, and have their deposits (the only place in Italy where we still have small and big treasures) - can understand the difference between the financial consultant enabled to offer out of office and independent financial consultant. Let's be honest, six months and they'll all be financial advisors. Although I can really see the goodness of this bill, and share its entire content, I can see potential dangers. Therefore, out of prudence and respect for the people who sent me here, I must abstain in this vote. I wanted to fight back to President Marino, who I respect very much: it is true, they are two sides of the same medal, in fact one is called head and the other is called cross. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and CoR Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u60	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u61	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u62	Colleagues, the following request has come to the Presidency, which I read to you: In accordance with Rule 56 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, the order of business shall be reversed by anticipating the decision on the request for urgent resolution in respect of draft law No 2024 immediately after the final vote of the draft law laying down rules for the reorganization of the financial advisory activity. This request is signed by Senators Tonini, Russo, Mirabelli, De Biasi, Albano, Collina, Del Barba and Fabbri. I would remind you that this request can be dealt with in favour and one against. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Are the signatures true? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They're real, and let's not joke about that. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u65	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, is this reversal a change of timetable? I don't think so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is a reversal of the order of business. ENDRIZZI (M5S). So we have to determine exactly what? I don't have the previous order, and I'd like to know what it would have been. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It means what I read to you. You're asked to do it now, instead of later... ANDRIZZI (M5S). But later when? That's the point. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Look, the agenda is public, the bill No. 2054 would be in question. ENDRIZZI (M5S). So the statement of urgency on bill 2024 when it would have been made, otherwise? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Later.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u68	MIRABELLI (PD). Madam President, I believe it is also useful for this debate to state that with the eight signatures we have requested, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the statement of urgency also for the Senate Act 2000, laying down provisions for the reordering of games. Since we learned yesterday that there was the request of the 5 Star Movement to make the statement of urgency on their bill, and considering that the issue is very sensitive and very important, we believe there is a need for an overall reorganization intervention, after the delegation did not give the outcome hoped. I think it is right that the debate should be put on the net all the draft laws presented on this subject and that Parliament should state the urgency of the subject of the game and its reordering. We have already voted on a motion on advertising here; there is a broad consensus and it seems to me that all the draft laws involve more or less the same deliberate on the issue of banning advertising, so I believe that this issue should be included in a more comprehensive discussion and reordering, also because the current news on the growth of illegal gambling lay down in favour of the need to give regulatory certainty - which is not there today - on the gaming sector. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Definitely, since there's an analogy.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u71	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking in support of the reversal, because the measure must necessarily be scheduled and time limits must be reduced in accordance with Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure. I would remind you that there is also a proposal for an initiative by Senator Crosio and all the members of our Group. I am in favour of reversing the agenda, and I would remind you that for each Group a senator may speak in favour and against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u74	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I do not agree with this reversal of the agenda because the measure could already have been taken at the time. Inserting it today simply means proceeding too quickly on something very serious, which must be weighed appropriately. DE BIASI (PD). I'm asking to talk. You're from the LN-AUT group. No!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u75	Excuse me, Senator, we must first vote on the proposal to reverse the agenda because the speeches in favour and against have already been made. Alicata (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the groups must be able to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u77	Can you talk later? Let's take the vote first.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u78	ENDRIZZI (M5S). I would like to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, Senator Mirabelli has made a statement not of method on the reversal of work, but of substance on the inclusion of a bill which has little to do with the proposal we have made, even from a conceptual point of view. The abolition of gambling advertising has been conceived as a punctual bill on a specific element, which cannot be subject to blackmail in the context of... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I told you, this is what I deserve. I didn't even give Senator De Biasi the floor. We'll deal with the credit later. ENDRIZZI (M5S). So, if we vote to reverse the statement of urgency of a draft law... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u79	I put to the vote the proposal to reverse the agenda. The Senate approves.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u80	The next item is the resolution on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 2024 and, jointly, on the proposal made by Senator Mirabelli. CRIMI (M5S). No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would remind you that there is a debate on this request in which no more than one speaker or one speaker can speak for each parliamentary group and for no more than ten minutes. Senator Endrizzi has the floor to explain the request. CASTALDI (M5S). It's not your house, it's everyone's house! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is everyone's home and I am following the procedure of Senator Endrizzi, I give you the floor to explain the request that the vote of the House has brought forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u81	Madam President, Senator Mirabelli has now made the request, so it must be examined at the next sitting, not in this. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] He was to present it yesterday, because we announced it and the President-in-Office announced it at yesterday's sitting, so today he is putting it to the vote. That's not possible. The senator rightly said that they knew yesterday, then the request had to be made yesterday. However, there are two separate votes, because the two measures are different in nature. The very words of Undersecretary Baretta and Senator Mirabelli denounce that they are two alternative draft laws, because if the idea is that the bill should be put back in a wider debate, while we claim to bring this proposal to this House, they are clearly two divergent positions that cannot be put in the same vote. So today we are discussing ours and tomorrow the possibility of dealing with yours.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u82	I'll answer immediately. The votes shall be divided. No, we can't argue today. We cannot pollute the debate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is up to the Presidency to add. CRIMI (M5S). It's a regulatory issue. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I replied that the votes are separate and that it is up to the Presidency to add the other bill to the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u85	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a point of order, because when a new topic is introduced (because it is a new topic), the debate must be separated. Therefore, in addition to the reversal of the agenda, for which we voted in favour, the introduction of a new item on the agenda presupposes a further debate with an intervention in favour and one against and the vote of two thirds of those present. In order to include the subject proposed by Senator Mirabelli, I would therefore ask you, from the Rules of Procedure, for a further specific vote to determine whether the House would like to include this further subject on the agenda, since, as Mr Endrizzi has well explained, these are two distinct arguments which, in this case, the Presidency's discretion cannot be used. These are two distinct arguments: one concerns one side and another concerns another; it is like being in favour or against a certain subject. Let us forget about the matter of substance; I say to you that the introduction of a new item on the agenda, in accordance with Rule 56 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, must be voted on in this House in a specific way and is something different from the reversal of the agenda. In this Rule of the Rules of Procedure it is explicitly stated that we need a two-thirds majority of those present in order to be able to accept the inclusion on the agenda of a further subject on the agenda; in fact, if it is so simple, then every ten minutes, from here to tonight, we will propose to you the introduction on the agenda of additional matters and we have time to work on it, so we will also blow Renzi's speech, since that is the fear. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's not exactly like that, and you know it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u88	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, as you can see, I'm covering myself with a newspaper. It is absolutely unacceptable that we in this House should have a stiff neck because the air-conditioning system is active. [[Applause from Senator Pezzopane.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u89	You know that I have already made this problem aloud here in this House. We're all on antibiotic. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). But either the problem is solved, or we have to come to the House in our coats. Frankly, it becomes an embarrassing matter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We'll see to it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u92	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, what I wanted to say is basically what Senator Crimi said. We took a vote, so much so that I understood Senator Mirabelli's speech as in favour of reversing the agenda and I was surprised that he could speak to Senator Calderoli; then I realized that it was a completely different request, on another Rule of the Rules of Procedure, for which the procedure is different. We voted to anticipate the urgent procedure on the bill required by the 5 Star Movement, but not on other draft laws, otherwise we also have other things to suggest and to propose, and also very often. CRIMI (M5S). Otherwise we would have voted against, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u93	I said I'm clear. Since this has happened, I insist on moving forward with the agenda that we have voted on. I therefore give the floor to Senator Endrizzi to explain his request.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u94	Madam President, I am still speaking on order. After we have finished this debate with the vote of the House, what are we going to do? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency has already responded earlier. I would ask you to clarify why it is not clear at all. You didn't respond, for example, to Senator Malan's objection. Therefore, the question remains whether we will then have the surreptitious infiltration of a discussion on the urgency of another bill, which must not be held today because they are two distinct issues, as said at the mouth of the same undersecretary Baretta. They are two different ways of proceeding, and one excludes the other.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u95	You may not agree to make a different assessment; the Presidency has already spoken. For the Presidency, the other bill is linked, even if we vote separately. I said that before and I say it again now. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). But no! CRIMI (M5S). We must vote! The House must vote! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. After that, it seems more useful to me.... CRIME (M5S). The House must vote! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's move on. We've already voted... No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. When we voted, I was clear. CRIMI (M5S). You made the wrong thing vote! He tricked us! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've made myself clear. Ladies and gentlemen, inter alia, the Presidency decides the connection and the House does not vote for it. CRIMI (M5S). It's a scam! It's a scam! I'll say it again: and a scam! We did not vote for the inclusion of an item on the agenda! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That was not the point in the vote, but the reverse. Senator Endrizzi, please proceed with the illustration of your request for a statement of urgency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u96	Madam President, you have the right to replace the House, where the Rules of Procedure give the House the power to decide whether or not it is! [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] I spoke on the order of business before the vote, stating that the two questions were separate. You have taken the vote and now we find that you have associated them. When it is said that you deceived us, it refers to the hypothesis that you, from the outset, left a misunderstanding at stake. The alternative is that you had the clear distinction, that you had heard what I said and that you decided that everything was fine and that you could vote, with the details that I had put, namely that it was two separate issues. It is up to you to choose whether you want the hypothesis of deception to be supported by the continuation of the work or whether you want to confirm what was in the order of things, namely that it is two separate issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u97	Senator Endrizzi, I would once again ask you to explain your request for a statement of urgency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u98	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, we have a Undersecretary who has declared his personal willingness, indeed his intention, to abolish gambling advertising. Then, however, today we discover that it subordinates it, personally or by interposed person (since the term foreword may seem offensive), to the approval of a number of other measures that have nothing to do with this. Madam President, you have asked me to explain my request. Therefore, I would like to ask your attention, since it is above all to you that I am addressing! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're right, Senator Endrizzi, they were handing me the list of members to speak in the debate. I apologize. ENDRIZZI (M5S). As I said, today the abolition of gambling advertising has a single purpose, the protection of health, and we want to make it subject to the approval of a rule, such as the bill signed by Senator Mirabelli, which instead has many other issues at stake, often in conflict with health, for example, the maintenance of tax revenues and interventions on anti-mafia legislation, authorisations, and the powers of the quaestor and so on. We want there to be no barter between the health of the citizens and the other issues that are necessary. The government has dropped the tax delegation, we are proposing a measure that has an impact on health especially of young people and you believe that these two things are similar, as was the same issue and I say that this is the premise of a barter: the health of young people in exchange for favours of lobbying. This is the intent that you have consumed and that you are allowing! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I do not know if there have been agreements between you before, but certainly the rumor, the chatter that followed the announcement in the Chamber of our request yesterday, by President Grasso, makes me think that some pebbles in the wasp have arrived and these are the bites that come today, but not to us, to a generation of boys. 51 percent of minors have already started gambling: 4 percent say they did because they saw advertising, but another 7 percent say they did because they thought winning was easy and who told them that winning is easy if not TV commercials? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Although it is forbidden for minors, among young people we have about 9 percent of problematic players in the North, 10 percent in the Center and more than 12 percent in the South; what do we want to wait for? The comforts of Secretary Baretta, who has to agree with Lottomatica? Because that is what happened: the tax delegation received it first from Parliament's lobby, which was the holder of that delegation! This, Madam President, was an intervention on the order of business. Now I begin to explain the measure on the substance and hope to have the time; at least he will give me this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Definitely, Senator. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, in Italian society, gambling has always been considered to be at risk and was not by chance prohibited by law on the whole of Italy, except for a derogation. The concessions were really limited at one time. For low latency games, that is, with a short time between the bet and the outcome, such as roulette and slot machines, practice was allowed in particular and limited places, such as casinos and racetracks. Since the mid-nineties, however, concessions have exploded and have brought highly impacting health games, the most dangerous in addiction, to be available and accessible everywhere. Citizens of the municipality of Campione d'Italia cannot play in their casino and it is a protective measure, and we must act today to curb the new demand. Marketing has become asphyxiating and has trodden the hand by exploiting the crisis in an ignoble way and promising the solution of problems, from home to income, through competitions, with misleading advertisements on the real chance of winning and this, Madam President, impacts especially on young people. In fact, they see narrowing the opportunities of a life project, because due to the precariousness and lack of training they are condemned to an instrument of competition with China instead of having opportunities for training and entrepreneurship that instead put Italy in competition with Germany. This distrust pours into a propensity to play that is induced very quickly through messages that have now entered colonizing the youth imagination. We have 15 million regular players in Italy. Gambling exploded, multiplying several times during the crisis, with a 30 percent rise in 2011. Concerns have already been expressed by the Anti-drug Policy Department of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers in a report that evoked a real social emergency. Italy is the first market in Europe for videolotteries that are considered the cocaine of gambling - a game lasts four seconds - and that lead a person to remain caught and enter a mechanism of compulsion in pressing the buttons. Sports betting is a growing industry because you can play in real time even during matches. Around the games - before, during and after - a bombing of gambling commercials takes place. They are the most watched broadcasts by young people and sports betting is the game in wider growth among young people and also among the very young. As I said, 51 percent of young people have already started playing, 32 percent hide the real lost sums from their parents and 5 percent of the daring males every day; one fifth of them devote themselves to five and more games at the same time. This year's Nomisma research has highlighted this data. Let me give you an example to understand the impact of the game on the thinking, on the psyche of young people. The following question had been asked to some youngsters: if someone gave you 100 euros, how many would you use for gambling? Almost half of those questioned replied that they would allocate a share of that amount to gamble. Of the 100 euro data, the average amount allocated for this purpose was 16%. I'm talking about guys who find themselves 100 euros unexpected would follow a dream in the drawer, something they care about and have been waiting for a long time. Then we have the paradox that those same young people, when they get married, ask for scratch cards and wins as a wedding gift. Do you understand the tragedy? We are faced with a colossal pedagogical emergency. It is not just recruitment of new players that is determined by advertising. It is also the promotion of a cultural model of unraveling, the search for an individual and selfish economic success that cries out with the principles of economic and social solidarity set out in Articles 2 and 4 of the Constitution. It must be considered, then, that gambling impacts more on lower income groups. In regions with lower incomes, we have, as a percentage, a higher share destined to gambling; it is money taken to businesses, to domestic consumption, taken also to care for children. We can't accept that. It is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of the citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and the effective participation................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We should also pay attention to those 800,000 or perhaps 900,000 people (probably they are twice as many but we don't even have the data because serious epidemiological research is not funded), to those hundreds of thousands, if not millions of problematic players that a state collided with lobbying led to an unacceptable state of suffering, even more unacceptable when we think that to suffer more are not even the adults but the children. What about Article 32 of the Constitution, health protection? What's left of it? 11:32 a.m. (Follow ENDRIZZI). Today, in our young people and in their attitude towards gambling - according to a research by the Nomisma Institute, I repeat, presented in Bologna this summer - we already find the warning signs of compulsive behavior, from expectations to psychological values downloaded on gambling, to the chase of loss, which establishes the entry into a state that we could define as pathology, when the player, while realizing that he is impoverishing, sees no other solution than to continue to gamble, waiting for a big win (which we know will not be). It is paradoxical, in this situation, that conventions with multinationals oblige contractors to invest even in advertising, which then becomes a means of conditioning the freedom of the press. With 200 million per year of advertising investments, in fact, any economic entity can go to the editor of a newspaper or the chief editor and say: We want a less critical editorial line for us, otherwise we have to withdraw the investment. We also see it in the RAI-Radiotelevisione Italiana: the service contract has been suspended for more than a year and would foresee, at least in the public service, the abolition of advertising, but it is held firm. By who? For what, dear Mirabelli? It is held firm because there is no political will, while there are statements of façade; here we have had proof of the hypocrisy of the Government, because, if they really agreed on the public service, they would already have done so. That is why it is unacceptable to think of combining an agile, fast bill that responds to the needs of urgency and social and pedagogical emergency with another, which instead is not to know how many articles - say you, Mirabelli, how many are - and therefore will inevitably be subject to cross vetoes and negotiations, as we have seen recently on reforms and now on civil unions: What do you give me in return? "No, you vote for the reform, then we'll talk about it: if you want, I'll give you something on Italicum. We cannot accept this: it is not possible to trade the health of young people with any other consideration. We also know that abolishing advertising is also a means of affecting evasion and illegal gambling on sites, because a website without the possibility of being known is easily "sterilizable." We saw this summer the scandal of 1,500 offering points linked to the illegal sites operating on Malta, in connection with the 'ndrangheta'. In order to strike at this phenomenon, we must abolish advertising and here I believe that there will be a vote in favour of this House, which in its time has already voted on the moratorium on new games and an agenda in the RAI reform to abolish gambling advertising, which, as I have already said, is the tool to increase and induce new demand. Finally, President, today that we are talking about the bill Boccaduttri this I must say anyway, with this bill we will also go to make the image of politics cleaner, no longer having to submit to the shame of sponsorships, as we saw at the meeting of Communion and Liberation and at the Feast of Unity, where we had the stands that promoted gambling. Now I take it for granted that, after the House has voted unanimously, it will want to confirm this propensity. We need to start this path right away that has no costs, but only benefits. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u100	About what, Senator Malan? MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). The order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Not on facts discussed previously, because the Presidency does not intend to continue the debate. You have the right to do so. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). This is a new fact. Given that, under an unknown article of the Rules of Procedure that is not there, it was decided that - I take note of this and I am not contesting it because otherwise I would return to the subject - to a draft law, at the request of eight senators, one can add another and even vote together when the arguments are very distant... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They don't vote together. Bills will be voted one at a time. CRIMI (M5S). No, no! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Great. The timetable, in accordance with Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, takes place the next day. So the day after today isn't today, but it's tomorrow. Therefore, if we vote today on bill 2024 and tomorrow the draft law Mirabelli there is no problem. If, on the other hand, they want to vote today, I ask, although I realize that it is not in the Rules of Procedure, that we vote today for the combination of a bill, which is much closer than that of Senator Mirabelli, which is the bill no. 1047, at the first signature of Senator Razzi, which includes provisions for the contrast of pathological gambling and money laundering, hoping that both in this case and in the case of Senator Mirabelli, the Rules will apply, without preferences and forcing and pushing things forward. I would point out that the draft law No 2024 is in distribution and we can know what is being talked about while the draft law No 2000 is not and, therefore, we are voting in this way. We have already voted, without knowing it, to include the discussion of a bill whose content was not possible to know previously.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u101	The connection is established by the Presidency. I would remind you of the precedent on the urgent declaration of the draft electoral reform laws where ten draft laws were combined - I think - with them. The matter is closed for me. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). So, do you accept my request? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You must submit it in writing with the prescribed number of signatures. I also acknowledge the similar request, as a related argument, concerning the bill submitted by Senator Crosio. [[Senator Endrizzi's comments.]] The subject is closed, Senator Endrizzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u104	CROSIUM. Mr President, I rise very briefly to endorse and support the request made by Mr Endrizzi, whom I share. We believe that the time has really come for this important issue to be brought to the House with some acceleration. I do not go into the matter of the Rules of Procedure. Mr President, you reminded us that Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure protects and gives us the opportunity, as we have done, to combine the draft law. In fact, we have requested, as a Group of the North League, that the draft law No 2047 which I presented, and signed by the Group as a whole, be combined because - and I quote - it proposes the amendment to the single text on audiovisual and radio media services concerning the prohibition of advertising games with cash winnings. I just want to point out - and Mr Endrizzi reminded me this - that not later than a few months ago, during the adoption of the draft law on the reform of the RAI, an agenda presented by the Group of the North League, always at my first signature, which was inspired by this draft law of ours, was voted unanimously at the time, after a broad discussion that lasted more than half an hour in which, I remember again, I gave some unfortunately wrong numbers and was rightly corrected by my colleague De Biasi. I remember we had given the wrong numbers, but beyond that, I would like to stress that this acceleration can only be shared. However, I would also like to highlight another question raised by Senator Endrizzi. At the basis of the debate that will be held we must put above all the health and interest of the citizen, because the plague that is overwhelming our society becomes every day more worrying and reaps more and more important victims. There is no limit to this scourge. So removing advertising is fine, but at the heart of everything we have to put the issue of health. Thinking of having a debate in which economic issues are prevalent in relation to the issue of health makes us question. This assessment will certainly be made by the Presidency and by everyone, but I urge everyone to make the right distinction in the legislative field and in the context of a combination scenario, because we risk going into a juniper and not protecting the health of citizens and families, probably safeguarding other interests, which could also be legitimate but on which we have to pay close attention. The past, including legislation, has taught us a lot because we have seen it in all its colors. I therefore reiterate our full support for Mr Endrizzi's proposal and confirm the request made by the Group of the North League, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, to combine the bill No 2047 signed by all colleagues. We hope that in the shortest possible time, but always in full compliance with the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency of the Senate will be able to incardinate this important debate that never as today becomes more urgent. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u106	Senator Endrizzi, you've intervened three or four times already.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u107	ENDRIZZI (M5S). I would like to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You cannot speak on the order of business because you have already been given an answer. Let's proceed with the illustration. ENDRIZZI (M5S). I have to announce a new fact. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What's new? Senator Endrizzi, before I let you speak 14 minutes just to give you paternity. Tell me what's new. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I just want you to know that the Mirabelli bill is assigned to the 6th Commission, and my draft law to the 6th and 12th Commission together. Do you see how you can talk about the same things in different ways? Or are these different things that need to be treated in different ways? I wanted to let you know about this. I have something else to say. I withdraw... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u108	No, that's enough.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u109	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Can I withdraw the request? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Endrizzi, you've already filed it, and it's on record. He has already explained this and will therefore be put to the vote. ENDRIZZI (M5S). I can pick it up at any time! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. At this point we cannot rethink. ENDRIZZI (M5S). I withdraw the request because in the case of my bill we are talking about a measure made with the citizens, requested by the associations SlotMob, NoSlot and SenzaSlot and within the framework of the campaign against gambling "Let's put ourselves in the game." The measure made by Italo Volpe to the State Monopolies is different. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They're not compatible. These are two different approaches and objectives. If you insist on keeping them together I withdraw the request for urgent calendarization, which would mean opening a motorway to the detriment of Italy as a whole. We can't stay here! [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u112	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, I believe that we would do a very serious wrong to the dramatic issue of pathological gambling dependence if we put it in the cauldron of bagatelle between majority and opposition. Now it's time to stop: you don't use people's health like a clava! This is a very serious issue, but as President of the Health and Health Commission, I cannot define the ban on advertising as the only way forward in the fight against gambling. I can't do that, because that's not true. I cannot do that, because there are television broadcasts, where hidden advertising can be present, there are films, with the phenomenon of product placement, because there is the Internet, with the advertising induced and not only with the advertising coming from specific sites. [[Comments of Senators Endrizzi, Crimes and Montevecchi.]] Can I talk or should I shut up? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite colleagues who are standing in the Chamber to sit in their seats. [[Comments of Senators Endrizzi and Montevecchi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u113	Senator Endrizzi! DE BIASI (PD). That's enough! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I was hoping that, at least on such a subject, there would be a broad sharing of this House. I must note that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u114	[[Comments of Senators Montevecchi and Santangelo.]] DE BIASI (PD). I'm trying to explain! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We must listen to Senator De Biasi, President of the 12th Commission. So let her talk. SANTANGELO (M5S). Remember the Rules of Procedure! DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, this seems to me to be a waste of time, but let us try. I believe that, given that this issue is extremely important, we must ensure that it is considered from all possible angles and, therefore, that a framework measure is adopted. It is not true that the economy has nothing to do with health. You know that much better than I do that, if there are no sanctions appropriate to the illegal game and the proliferation of uncontrolled game - as is already happening - we will still have pathological behaviors, but without having brought home the defeat of the illegal game and the mafias. I say this in the interest of all and in the interest of health, which develops on different levels. It is right that the gaming industry - the legal industry - should be in a position to be responsible for the pathological game. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]] This is something that must be done absolutely and for which rules are required. I am not saying, however, that it is enough to tax, because pathological play does not exist: we know perfectly well that there are a range of problems and a range of expressions of pathological play, since there is not only one way in which it manifests itself. I would also like us not to have an exclusively prohibitionist attitude, because every time we have such an attitude, we know that lawlessness is rampant. As for the numbers - although I should not be the one to say it, but we must be careful about this too - I would ask the Ministry of Health what happened to the observatory that we planned last year under the Stability Act. This observatory allows us to monitor the phenomenon with certainty, to know how many players and people are actually sick with pathological play. This is a fact that we do not know today and we do not yet have the therapeutic protocols, which actually enter into the dynamics of the regions and municipalities. This is the other problem, so we have to keep the different parts together. That is why I agree with the idea of associating the various draft laws in this area, knowing that everyone will play their part. You see, Mr President, we can only examine the bill on advertising, but it will certainly not take us two minutes, because it is much more complex than it appears and I do not think that on such an important subject we can legislate on footprint and with feeling. We need to look at the legislative, economic, legal and health elements. To conclude, then, if we think that the pathological game is induced exclusively by advertising, I am sorry, colleagues, but we are light years behind all the thinkers who have dealt with advertising and who know perfectly that the relationship is not mechanical cause-effect, so it is true that advertising has assumed pervasive tones over time that do not identify directly with the commercial. I don't want to teach anyone anything, but let me say that, as Shakespeare says, there are more things in heaven and earth (...) than your philosophy dreams. So when we deal with this issue we have to do it globally, in a contextual way and leave out, please, the dynamics of majority and opposition. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Bravo! DE BIASI (PD). Because in this case, yes, people's health is more important. I therefore believe that all the draft laws in this area should be combined, bearing in mind, Mr President, that the House has incardinated some of the draft laws on pathological play, and so it will be a question of harmonising the work. But it is very important that everything should be kept together if we do not want to do favors to one lobby instead of another. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Senator Endrizzi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u117	TONINI (PD). Mr President, if I can, I would like to reassure my colleagues in the opposition. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We're serene! TONINI (PD). For our part there is no instrumental and controversial intent. Last night there was this request, which we considered founded and right because the subject - as President De Biasi has just said, with words that I absolutely agree with - is not a majority and opposition, nor a clash of the House, without prejudice, of course, to the different ideas that we all respect. For our part there is no intent to force. We naturally refer to the Presidency and its assessments, but if, pro bono pacis, to work better together with serenity, to clear the shadow field, we must vote on our request on Tuesday, we shall vote on it on Tuesday; we have no problem at all. We felt that the proposal of colleagues of the 5 Star Movement was worthy of being taken into absolute consideration because the theme of gambling and ludopathies is absolutely important, and we are ready to regulate ourselves as consensually as possible. We have no intention of forcing on this front. We simply asked for our draft laws to be combined too; if we have to repeat the vote on Tuesday, we will do it on Tuesday. There really is no intention of inflaming the House on a subject like this, which must find us united instead in facing it, except for the diversity that will be on the merits but that will be addressed in the appropriate fora. So, on our part, doors wide open to the most consensual procedure possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u118	I would remind you that the allocation in the Commissions can be reviewed by the Presidency in the light of the requests of the Presidents and Presidents of the Commissions themselves. So this is absolutely not a problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u121	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, it seems to me that Mr Tonini's speech is reasonable because, in any case, it is legitimate that a Group should be able to ask for a measure to be scheduled. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do not go back to the point again, Senator Crosio, because it has already been done. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). I'd just like to, if you'll allow me, president. Support CROSIO (LN-Aut). Yes, of course, but I would also like to stress - because it remains in the proceedings - that they are not dynamics of majority and opposition, from our point of view, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, you can't talk about it, Senator Crosio.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u124	Rossi Maurizio (Misto-LC). Mr President, first of all, I am one of the members of the Parliamentary Intergroup against Chamber and Senate gambling, and I share all that Senator Endrizzi has said. I would add that a lobby that is not named is that of information, that on gambling, precisely on advertising, is played a few hundred million euros. We are therefore talking about a very strong lobby from which some parties may have had more demands than others. I am surprised at what the Senator of the Democratic Party, Mrs De Biasi, said earlier, namely that we must have more play to avoid illegal gambling. Of course, practically all the illegal in Italy has already been authorized! Now we find machines everywhere, no longer like at the time of the casino where a document had to be presented. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Endrizzi]] Today we find machines everywhere: close to ski resorts, close to bars, close to schools. And how is all this fed? I tell you that for thirty years I have been involved in communication: from hidden advertising and from the real advertising of commercials. It is clear that, in a time of crisis in advertising, we are going to touch a sector that gives the country's information system maximum income. But we cannot accept that at the moment there is not only a bill on advertising, because it is such an important issue that it must be calendarized by itself. [[Applause from Senator Endrizzi]] Having said that, I believe that the 8th Commission - I am pleased with what you have just said, namely that the allocations are not final - is absolutely competent on the subject of advertising: we are the Commission's public works and communications and I think that more than others we have the competence to analyse this issue. I can't go any further. I support what Mr Endrizzi has said: I cannot say that I support him on behalf of the Intergroup, because he is not a member of it, but from many of the things he has said that I believe it is the same battles. I repeat that the bill on advertising must be calendarized immediately and in an absolutely autonomous way by others. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] If anything, I share the combination exclusively of those that touch the advertising part, such as the bill of the League. Finally, I ask you to sign the bill at the first signature of Senator Endrizzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u127	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, as Senator Crosio has already pointed out, we have the bill No 2047 which is absolutely congruent... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, we've already declared the connection. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Even to give a sign of real importance, we intend to sign the bill n. 2024 presented by my colleague Endrizzi and I am sure that there will be as much sharing on our bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u128	Mr President, the Misto-SEL Group also calls for Senator Endrizzi's bill to be signed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u131	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, allow me to say this: it is a storm in a glass of water. I say this with all due respect to the Presidency: this time, with arguments that are all admissible and a thousand miles away from the suspicion of speculation or obstructionism, I listened to several speeches, before even Mr Endrizzi presented his draft law, with which it was hoped that the Presidency would grant the annexation of the twelve draft laws relating to the subject matter (repeat, twelve draft laws). There has been an attitude of irremovable rejection by the Presidency. She settled immediately after President Faithful and of course politely, but also with determination, was tranchant compared to this. There have now been additional elements, which I believe are absolutely worthy of attention, in support of necessity and opportunity, and I would also like to say good legislative practice, which induce the Presidency to adopt all draft laws. As Mr De Biasi has pointed out in a precise and precise way, the subject is complex, it has many facets, it represents in the hierarchy of priorities in this country a real emergency, if only it is considered that there are 800,000 pathological subjects out of 2 million subjects who are dedicated to gambling. I say 800,000 remembering that they are twice as many drug addicts in Italy, so they are huge figures, and the problem has enormous implications of a cultural, social, economic, ethical, health and anthropological nature. An act of common sense and a revision of the Presidency's decision I believe that they can restore a climate of peaceful confrontation which, as Mr Tonini said, despite the differences, can lead this House to identify a shared path that gives the country a substantial step forward in legislation that deserves to be modernised.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u132	I now have five requests for an urgent statement on five measures. The purpose of the statement of urgency, which reduces half the time limits allocated to the Commission, is usually to start the debate in the Commission. This does not mean that all measures with similar content can be considered to be connected in that forum, beyond the statement of urgency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u135	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I believe that your comment just now anticipates the response to my request, which I shall make very quickly, also in view of the economy of the work of this House. Although I am a co-signator of a bill that concerns the issue of gambling advertising, I believe that this is only a particular aspect of a much broader picture. If I wanted to limit the discussion of the subject only to the scope of the ban on advertising, I believe that I would do an improper and insufficient work. That is why I believe that, because the subject is so complex and so vast, inherent in the fields of education, training, ethics, the economy and advertising, only dealt with together can give a complete answer, without the theme of being misunderstanding, regarding any other needs. I believe that, without prejudice to the good faith of each of us, a dialectic in this field must be constructive and I fully agree that it should be removed from any controversial interpretation of a majority or minority. I believe that a dialectic of this fact does not take place nor any motivation, because we would brilliantly wrong the family suffering of those young and not young who lead to destruction themselves, families and social groups. That is why I believe it is appropriate that these issues should all be dealt with together. Thank you for the correct point you made earlier and for anticipating the answer I was asking for.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u136	It is, in fact, a multisectoral area, very much felt, and I hope that the Presidents of the various Commissions who have a connection with the debate, given the warmth of the debate itself, will show their seriousness and their commitment to try to combine the texts, whether or not there is urgency, under Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on one or the other. We shall now proceed to the vote on the requests, in the order in which they were tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u138	Your request has also been filed and will be put to the vote as a penultimate vote, No 2087.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u139	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). I'd like to say something. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr. President, just to inform. The bill I filed is a popular initiative. Italy of Values collected 100,000 signatures on January 30, 2014 and deposited the text to the Chamber of Deputies; today the text is also deposited to the Senate. It is a bill that concerns the possibility of removing slot machines, thus avoiding gambling, and eliminating online games, as well as advertising. As has been said on several occasions, it is not indifferent social damage and a very high social cost. I would ask that the draft law also be taken into account and discussed, for a much broader speech which goes beyond the ban on advertising. I believe that eliminating slot machines and gambling is a priority to avoid this social scourge.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u140	We must now vote first on the request for an urgent statement on draft law No 2024, tabled by Senator Endrizzi. ENDRIZZI (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. For what? Not on the order of business, Senator Endrizzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u141	Mr President, I have made a request and I have not received an answer. I said if you confirmed the match, I would withdraw the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u142	Senator Endrizzi, you may have gone away, but I have just informed the House that assignments to the Commissions can be revised in the light of specific requests from the presidencies of the Commissions themselves.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u143	I would like it to remain in the acts that I would not like the adoption of the vote on the statement of urgency also of a bill that I consider foreign, because strangers are the matrix, the origin, the author and the objective (I refer to the draft law at the first signature of Senator Mirabelli), compared to ours, it is considered as an implicit affirmation of the principle of homogeneity. That is why I consider two separate votes, and I would like to keep to the documents that this will not entail any constraint.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u144	I have already indicated that we will be voting separately, so it has nothing to do with the uniformity of the measures, either in positive or in negative. I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft law n. 2024, made by Senator Endrizzi. It's approved. I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft law No. 2000, tabled by Senator Mirabelli. It's approved. As the outcome of the vote is uncertain, I have the counter-test. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft law No 2047, made by Senator Crosio. It's approved. I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft law n. 2087, made by Senator Bencini. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u147	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I have withdrawn my request for an urgent statement on the draft law No 1047, President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u148	We take note of that. I have to answer Senator Rossi that the only pride we can have of our old Senate is that at least here the machines and slot machines haven't arrived. Maybe the rest didn't come, but those didn't come.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u151	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I express my incompetence with the Rules of Procedure, but also with Senator Nencini's first draft law No 1338, it contains provisions to combat gambling. I do not know if I can ask for a match here.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u152	Today, the House declared the urgency. The combination is a fact that will be evaluated by the presidencies of the Commissions, whether or not it has been the subject of the statement of urgency. Therefore, all the bills relating to the sector will also be considered as potentially combinable. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u155	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking as a result of the votes that have just been taken. I would like to stress, not so much to cool the enthusiasm of my fellow Members, but above all to draw the attention of the Presidency, that there are other statements of urgency voted on by this House two years ago and the Presidency has not yet arranged for these measures to be scheduled, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, if it were to decide to do so, I would ask the Presidency to strictly respect the order of the statements of urgency voted by this House in calendarizing the bill: there is one of mine and one of Senator Filippi and so on. There are draft laws that should have been in the Chamber for two years now, and that is not the case. Beyond the fact that this Senate, in limine mortis, may also be condemned to fail to observe the Rules of Procedure, however, we must respect, at least, an order of precedence over the statements of urgency already voted by this House. I mentioned these points in some of the debates on the timetable. I recalled this regulatory commitment that the Presidency should have fulfilled. Unfortunately, this has not yet happened. I would therefore ask him again.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u156	Senator D'Alì, I recall that Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure determines the half-time normally provided for. If you want to raise the timetable for the House's ruling at the Conference of Leaders, that is a more political issue. There is no automatic calendarisation in this House for this reason. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). It is not a matter of a Conference of Leaders. The Presidency can decide that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u157	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u159	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, in view of the timetable we have set ourselves, and given the fact that I have heard that there is already a series of meetings of the Commissions at 1.30 p.m., we would ask for a suspension of the work so that we can begin to deal with the next measure in a complete, seamless manner, directly and organically, starting with the conclusion of the debate on President Renzi's communications.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u162	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, frankly, these changes in programming do not share us. A short time ago we were talking about the urgency of dealing with the measures and then what do we do? We suspend when the scheduled suspension is in an hour and a half. We say we move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u165	STEFANO (Misto-PugliaMore-SEL). Mr President, I would just like to clarify this. The timetable we voted on last night provided for a sitting today without suspension and without closing hours. So much so that the undersigned, ill-willed, has defied a sitting of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, convened for today at the end of the proceedings of the Chamber. I do not understand, however, why, in parallel with my inconvenience, I have received invitations to call from the Committee on Agriculture and other Commissions. We can't do this in scattered order. It is also true that if the agenda of the plenary session is to be held throughout the day, the meetings of the committees will not be held; or, we all feel free to convene the committees even during the sitting. And to me, honestly, that's sorry. But if I had known that there would be a break or that other Commissions continued to maintain the convocation, I would have maintained that of the Council. I believe that this is a particularly serious matter, and I would ask you to clarify that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u166	Senator Stefano, I must give you complete reason for the inconveniences that come to be created. In fact, in the event of the suspension of the Assembly's proceedings, the Commissions are authorized to convene, at least to exploit the moment of suspension. Greater coordination between the work of the Assembly and those of the Commissions, while respecting the Presidents and Members of the Commission, is certainly necessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u169	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, I wanted to support Mr Stefano's wish for better coordination between the work of this House and those of the Commission. This lack undoubtedly leads to a handicap in the normal flow of activity we carry out. I would ask, please, for the benefit of the report, that the abstention vote taken at the last vote by the senators present in the Chamber of the Conservatives and Reformists in favour be corrected, as will be the case for all the other votes that you will take.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u170	The Presidency takes note of this although, as you know, there is no registration of the vote in this case. Your statement, however, will remain in the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u173	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I repeat our opposition to the stew that the majority are continuing to do. Only yesterday evening was the Calendar voted, with an agenda that was simply to be adopted, and what President Stefano said says a lot about the attitude of this majority! We are calling for the election council to be convicted, while the others have all been called in on time. Moreover, I would add, the only will of this majority today was not to discuss important issues such as the urgent declaration of the bill on gambling, because that could also be done in the Capigroup and in that forum Senator Zanda has not at all asked for the calendarization of any of his bills. What we have tried to do today is a dirty game, yet another, that is to remove President Renzi from this Boccadutri sandwich! That's all you've been trying to do! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is ignoble that we can use - and I also address Senator Tonini - such important arguments to play games of such a low level. This is absolutely scandalous! Mr President, we are therefore about to continue our work on the agenda. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u174	After hearing opinions on the basis of which I believe we can make a proposal that is good for everyone, the Presidency proposes the following. Unfortunately, I have taken a positive view of President Stefano's arguments and I believe that the Commissions must have their time and also their warnings in order to be able to convene and I believe that the pause for suspension should be devoted to this. I propose to the House that the report be drawn up, that is to say the incardination of the draft law on... TAVERNA (M5S). Public funding to parties! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The draft law No 2054 on the Commission guaranteeing the statutes and monitoring the statements of political parties. I also propose that we suspend the work by giving space to the Budget Commission, which has 215 amendments to consider, and, after the President-in-Office's communications, to share with the incidental issues and with all that is to come. Does the House agree? CRIMI (M5S). You're afraid to put Renzi in the Boccadutri sandwich! BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we agree. SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we totally disagree. We want the work to continue in the same way as the calendar, which was just voted on last night! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Russo, do you agree with my proposal? Mr Russo (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal to proceed only to the incardination of measure No 2054, postponing the subsequent phase until after the communications of the President of the Council. It's approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u175	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2054, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Gotor, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u176	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable representative of the Government, this measure, which was already approved in the Chamber of Deputies on 9 September 2015, consists of three articles and makes some changes to Article 9 of Law No 96 of 6 July 2012, which had halved the amount of electoral refunds to the parties and obliged them to revise and certify their financial statements by an external company registered in the register of listed companies and the CONSOB list. To this end, these companies, which can operate for a maximum of six consecutive years on the same party, must verify the regular keeping of the accounts and the correct recording of the management facts in the accounting records. They shall also have an obligation to check that the financial statements are in accordance with the records and records, the findings of the investigations carried out and the rules governing them. The 2012 law also established the Guarantee Commission on the statutes and for the transparency and control of the statements of political parties with the aim of ensuring their full operation, also in the light of the additional functions entrusted to them by Decree-Law No 149 of 2013 which amended the rules on electoral refunds in favour of political parties and movements in fact abolishing public funding to parties. The first task of this measure is to strengthen the staff of this Commission, which has so far proved insufficient to carry out the task for which it was established and thus to strengthen the power of control and supervision over parties and to increase their transparency in order to respond to a just and acceptable demand from public opinion and the national community. In particular, Article 1 (1) (a) allows the aforementioned Commission to be assisted in carrying out the tasks entrusted to it by five units dependent on the Court of Auditors, involved in the audit activity and by two units dependent on other public administrations experienced in the audit activity. This new staff complements the five members already envisaged by the Commission who are at the top of the three judges: the Council of State, the Court of Cassation and three members of the Court of Auditors who exercise their four-year term of office, renewable once without receiving any compensation. Such staff, which will strengthen the Commission's work in guaranteeing, transparency and control, shall be placed out of the role of their own administrations and shall benefit from the same annual gross economic treatment enjoyed at the time of their appointment, including ancillary allowances, paid to their respective administrations. In addition, in order to exclude the emergence of new or increased public finance charges, it shall be made unavailable for the duration of the out-of-the-job placement of the staff of which the Supervisory Board uses, a number of posts in the overall budget of the administration belonging to the equivalent financial point of view. Paragraph (b) of the same paragraph provides that the magistrates of the Commission for the duration of the relative assignment, are placed out of role by the administrations of belonging in accordance with the provisions of the so-called anti-corruption law on the matter. Paragraph 2 intervenes on a second aspect of this provision, previewing that the provision according to which, in the exercise of control over the statements of the parties, the Commission also verify the conformity of the expenses actually incurred and the revenues received to the documentation produced to proof of the same, well apply to the financial statements for the years after 2014, excluding therefore the financial years 2013 and 2014. Consequently, the Commission's report on the judgment of regularity and compliance with the law of the financial statements for the financial years 2013 and 2014 shall be carried out in accordance with that forecast. Paragraph 3 of Article 1 provides that, for the financial year 2013, the report, which should have been approved by 30 June 2015, should be rendered, on the basis of the new regulatory forecasts, within 30 days of the entry into force of the measure under consideration. It should be noted that the reason for this rule lies in the fact that, despite the fact that the parties have produced in the years 2013 and 2014 all the necessary documentation, according to article 9, paragraph 1, of the law of 2012, and therefore they have had their balance sheets examined by the same companies that also operate on the stock exchange, the guarantee commission has not been able up to now to exercise such substantial verification for lack of personnel and structures. I would therefore like to make it clear, in order not to provide bad information and thus disinformation, that the parties, all parties, have fulfilled exactly the legal obligations on the financing of politics. They presented their financial statements and documents to support the financial statements, which could justify each individual expenditure in the eyes of the external audit firm. Unfortunately, the Institutional Commission has failed to do its job, as denounced by the President of the Commission in a letter to the President of the Chamber of 30 June 2015, after the first Commission, set up in 2012, resigned in 2014, claiming that it is not in a position to carry out its work seriously. For these reasons, the parties were in a position to have fulfilled all the legal obligations and, blamelessly, to suffer the fact of the delays on the residual financing, money that serves to pay external creditors and employees for an activity actually carried out, budgeted, certified and controlled. The reimbursements will only be paid after budgetary control, including for 2013. They must do so within 30 days, of course, but it is assumed that an investigation work has already been done, since those budgets have been in the Commission's possession since June 2014. For the 2014 budgets, delivered a few months ago (in June 2015), the Commission will have until June 2016. The fourth paragraph, with a provision of authentic interpretation, deals with a delicate aspect, which concerns the protection of the rights of employees by parties. The parties, in fact - I remind those who listen to us - are an instrument guaranteed by a constitutional rule, Article 49, according to which it is established that all citizens have the right to join freely in parties in order to contribute democratically to determining national politics. For this reason, they deserve wide protection, therefore public, constitutionally guaranteed and not only private. We must not, in fact, think only of the great parties, but of any political subject, whether small or large. We must remember, as legislators, that a party is not only made up of ideological-value options or communication of what it thinks, but of personnel, structures, commitments and suppliers: it is made, in short, of workers. CASTALDI (M5S). And owned! Mr Gotor, rapporteur. It is a structure that engages subjects who perform an activity that must be paid and protected by the laws and social shock absorbers that regulate the life of the vast majority of Italian workers. For this reason, paragraph 4 specifies that the application to the staff of the political parties of the legislation on extraordinary treatment, wage integration, extraordinary earnings fund and solidarity contracts also operates with respect to the articulations and territorial sections of the parties, regardless of the number of employees, including those with legal and financial autonomy. The same paragraph 4 also amends article 4, paragraph 7, of the same decree-law of 2013, abolishes with retroactive effect the obligation for political parties to be registered in the relevant national register for the purpose of the use of the recalled social shock absorbers. Finally, Article 2 lays down the financial invariance clause and Article 3 lays down the time limit for the measure to enter into force. In conclusion, I would like to stress that I have specifically asked to be rapporteur for this measure because I am among the two or three Senators of the Democratic Party who in 2013 did not vote the law that abolished during this legislature, moreover by decree-law, public funding to parties. I am, in fact, radically opposed to the spirit of such a measure, which I consider to be the most serious and contradictory measure adopted in the current legislature for the costs which it will entail in the medium term on the proper and sound functioning of Italian democracy. In my opinion, the principle of public funding of parties is a principle of democratic guarantee which, not by chance, applies in all European democracies because of its characteristics of universality, neutrality, thirdness and proportionality, thus responding to an elementary need for justice. The parties, according to the Constitution, have a public function and a civil country cannot be limited to private funding because, if it does, it implicitly recognizes that politics must respond only and exclusively to private and particular interests. We should therefore have the dignity of defending the parties and not hypocritically smoothing the hair of public opinion, fueling a general and indiscriminate condemnation which almost equates them with criminal associations. On the contrary, the dignity of defending them means precisely engaging in spasimo to distinguish the wheat from the loglio, the bad plant of evil and delinquent deviation, moreover extremely representative - I say it with great bitterness - of Italian society, with a healthy trunk, that there is and that it must grow. This must start from the principle that, if everyone is a thief and if everyone steals in the same way, he opens the way to a general self-absolution that is especially appropriate to criminals and gives space to occult and informal centers, cliques of power able to better and more effectively condition an increasingly weak, irrelevant and dequalified policy in the eyes of public opinion. Unfortunately, I know parties and movements without or with poor internal democracy, but I do not know democracy in the West without strong and vital parties. The history of the twentieth century teaches us that there is no political subject with totalitarian vocation that has not taken power claiming not to be a party, but a movement of liberation from parties. This happened because, if in politics you refuse the concept of being a part, of taking part, then you have the claim to represent the whole and you end up wanting to be in the intimate conviction, totally unproved of course, of having a superiority, even moral, over others. The controversy against the parties and Parliament, which always presents itself as new and emerging, is actually as old in Italy as the cocco. To understand the origins of this national identity can help us a step of notebooks from the prison of Antonio Gramsci, who explains that the popular and mass force of this apoliticalism - he wrote - derives from the correlation with the national ruling classes, with the ethical-civil quality of our bourgeoisie, which has never had a national vocation, but rather either cosmopolitan or dedicated to detail. He writes Gramsci and quotes: A variety of this popular "apoliticalism" is the "almost" of the physiognomy of traditional parties, the roughly of programs and ideologies. So even in Italy there is a particular "sectarianism." (...) The sectarianism in the popular elements corresponds to the spirit of consort in the ruling classes, is not based on principles, but on passions even low and ignoble and ends with the approach to the "honorable point" of the underworld and the omerta of the mafia and of the camorra. This apoliticalism, combined with the representative forms (especially of the local elective bodies), explains the deteriority of political parties, in Italy, which were all born on the electoral ground. These are words written in a fascist prison in the thirties of the twentieth century, yet it seems that we are talking about the parties of about today, reduced to electoral cartels and a cramped practice of the democracy of the character: a federation of lonely men in command, with annexed procession, that deludes and promises, but is not able to solve the Italian problems, first of all that of selecting a ruling class to meet the challenges we face. It seems incredible to have to admit it, but today in Italy politics is the only - I repeat, the only - area of human action in which experience and professionalism not only do not matter, but are judged a disvalue. [[Applause from Senators Broglia, Buemi and Panizza]] They do not serve to obtain consent, rather they subtract it. Is it politics? Is it because of the poor quality of Italian politics? Of course, but this answer is not enough for me: it is absolutely partial, omissive and ultimately cowardly (I can now say it also from direct experience, having frequented different worlds). In short, politics cannot become a closed enclosure where one enters with the vote of fewer and fewer citizens, entrusted to oligarchies of wealthy and money that can afford it, or be fed by famous testimonials that allow to avoid the need for public funding. These are the reasons why I am the rapporteur for this uncomfortable measure, but let us do it seriously and without hypocrisy. I also say this to my party, because above all of this Italy needs: not to deceive its audience by riding the demagogy of the screaming from one illusion to another, but to proceed to a profound reform of the parties, serious and transparent, with democratic rules of operation within them, finally applying Article 49 of the Constitution With this measure, in the case of those workers that we feel for an elementary duty of solidarity to support, we remind those who listen that we are using a form of public funding, because the private one would not have been enough and would not have been used to respond to that unbearable duty of protection of those workers. At first sight it does not appear, but paragraph 4 of Article 1 of this provision has to do with the dignity of making politics and with the theme of the resources of politics, of the dignity of the workers and, therefore, with the enormous theme of the quality of our democracy and our civilization. It does not seem - perhaps it does not appear - but even so we try to defend an invisible line that slowly, how progressively, separates what remains of democracy from the new barbarians, those who are coming and will make the laws, those that the senators for inertia have not done, as the Greek poet Constantine Kavafis wrote. It is in this spirit, with these convictions and also with these concerns, that I submit this small but important measure to the evaluation of the Senate. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Buemi and D'Ascola. Congratulations. Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u177	I would like to say that there is a question for a preliminary ruling, which will be explained and discussed after the vote on the motions for resolutions on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I confirm that the Commissions are authorized to convene immediately for their work. I am suspending the sitting until 3.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.44 p.m. and resumed at 3.32 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u178	The next item is: "Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 15 and 16 October 2015 and subsequent discussion" I note that, in accordance with the determinations adopted by yesterday's Conference of Leaders, the explanations of vote on the motions for resolutions tabled will be forwarded directly after the communications.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u181	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, we have a technical problem. Since we are voting tonight for the provision on public funding for parties, only we in the Five Star Movement Group have a malfunction of the cards. I'm asking you if you could please check, because we also tried the Boccadutri cards signed by Renzi, but they don't work. [[The Senators of the M5S Group show a manifesto depicting a credit card "Boccadutri card," registered to Matteo Renzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u182	Please, assistants, step in.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u183	CASTALDI (M5S). These cards don't work. The money you rob tonight without a piece of support, President of the Council... Assistants, please. This is not the order of business: it is the mess of the work. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Dr Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u184	Mr President of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council of tomorrow is taking place on issues of particular impact and of particular importance for the political and institutional life of Europe, and therefore of Italy. Themes that can hardly be lent to clowns of various kinds. MARTELLI (M5S). In fact, you're the number one clown, you're a clown! Mr Paglini (M5S). That's the clown. (Senator Paglini waves a leaflet depicting a credit card "Boccadutri card"). Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. You are rather asking for the attention of women and men on the part of this House for the season we are experiencing. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] And the season we are experiencing is the one in which there are millions of refugees asking Europe to do its job, that is to make politics. There are children who lose their lives on the beaches of Europe and Asia and who ask us to live up to these challenges. Mr Lezzi (M5S). Don't you dare, shame on yourself! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, I don't allow any interruptions. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. There are women and men waiting from the Senate of the Republic and the Chamber of Deputies of the Italian Republic of one of the strongest countries in the world to live up to those expectations. That is why, Mr President, I would like to begin by expressing to you, to the senators and senators the sense of gratitude for the high service to which you are called and for the manner in which you have given, even in these last hours, by rejecting any provocation, great proof of that oath of fulfilling your task. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Repetti]] AIROLA (M5S). They took their lentils. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. An oath made on the Constitution, for which, on behalf of the vast majority of Italians, we are grateful, regardless of what the assessment of the substance is. [[Senator Castaldi's comments.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Shared with Verdini. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. Today we are discussing important issues; first of all immigration issues and I am here to say, before this House, that, six months after the extraordinary European Council requested by Italy, we can say with pride, but also with a great deal of responsibility, that on immigration issues Italy was right and those who played against Italy were wrong. [[Applause from the PD Group, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Repetti. Comments of Senator Airola).]] CRIMI (M5S). Just money. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. We can say in this House that the issue of overcoming the Treaty of Dublin, which our country called for with a loud voice, was, is and will be a qualifying point for action in the coming years of the European Union. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Nobody said that six months ago. We were an isolated voice in the desert, in the desert of the lack of politics, in the desert of those who bend politics only to the momentary demands of public opinion. Six months ago we were alone in saying that it was unthinkable, in the face of the great upheavals of the European Union and, above all, the new international climate that was happening, that we would leave even one country alone and isolated to handle the great issue of immigration. We went to Brussels six months ago for an extraordinary European Council, we went back to June and we went back to September; in April, the European Council asked Italy with Malta, Germany asked for it in September. At the end of this semester, Angela Merkel and François Hollande, going to the European Parliament, said one simple thing: the Dublin agreement is over. They told them that even six months ago they had a slightly different position, so to speak. Why? What happened? It happened, kind senators, kind senators, that the political position that we had expressed then saw all the countries surrender to the evidence. The issue of immigration is not dealt with in the wave of a commercial, it is not dealt with passing from saying in July "at home all" to saying, in August, "come to my two-roomed apartment". We are not dealing with it, that is, with a superficial attitude. It is faced by taking note of an objective reality, namely that the reality that we are living today, from Afghanistan... AIROLA (M5S). With Alfano!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u185	Excuse me, ma'am, I can't allow this. Senator Airola, I'm calling you back to order. Senator Castaldi, you are the Holding Company and you have the responsibility of your Group, I call you to order. AIROLA (M5S). Shame on you to come here! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, shut up. Let the censorship of Senator Airola remain on the record, he will have to leave the Chamber at the next minute! LUCIDES (M5S). Calm down! AIROLA (M5S). I don't care: I say what I think! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to the responsibility of your Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u186	I envy those who, at this juncture, do not realize the complexity of which I was talking, the themes that go from Afghanistan to Nigeria, because it is a very diversified block, because it is an element of union: a red thread binds different pieces of our world, but this red thread is held together by the presence of an extremist movement that has obvious repercussions of a terrorist nature, that takes on diversified and different names, from Al Qaeda to ISIS and ISIL, to Boko Haram, but that is united by the desire to question the sense of the deeper values that animate us and animate the vast majority of the international community. Immigration is only a consequence of this and if we continue to deal with it simply with instinctive reactions, on the single day, without a wider scenario, we will never solve the great issue of our time. We have no right to talk about such delicate issues without feeling the heart crying, in front of a country like Jordan, which has four million inhabitants, of which 1,4 are refugees and refugees: the second city of Jordan is a refugee camp. How can we address this issue without facing the problem of Lebanon, where also our fellow countrymen, of whom we are proud, lead the UNIFIL mission with the commitment of the entire international coalition, but with the typical passion of the world of Italian professionalism? [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] How can we deal with this issue, even in relation to our own small internal raves, without feeling on us the pain of the wound of the world that is being immortalized and made evident by what has happened, for example, in Turkey these days? I have experienced the youth movement of a party and I think it is one of the most extraordinary realities when a young person approaches the commitment of the public. The images of those guys and those girls who took selfies a few moments before going to die in an attack like the Turkish one of a few days ago should ask us first of all the deep question about what makes sense in the public thing today. To some of us they probably remind Utøya and what happened in 2011 in Norway and should ask us the question about the deep sense of service to the public thing; but at the same time they should also ask us what kind of relationship we want to have with Turkey and against terror. Let's get back to that. The question of immigration Italy has set it up; then, it may or may not like it, you can accept or not accept the position of the Italian Government and the way in which the Government and the Ministries have managed this dynamic, but the question of immigration is not a question of series B: it is the answer to epochal phenomena that are going through our world and that have seen this Government start from a symbolic gesture. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] The first visit was not made by this government in Paris, Berlin, London, New York or Moscow: it was made in Tunis. Today I am pleased to share your and our joy in taking note that the 2015 Nobel Peace Prize went to Tunisian civil society. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, AL-A and Mixed and Senator Bencini]] Able to fight for democracy, unique (at this time) Arab spring phenomenon that has had a positive echo. The European Council discusses this. It may seem strange, but the European Council is at a time of reflection on the profound sense of the identity of our continent, fifty-eight years after what happened in Rome, with the signing of the Treaty of Rome. The deep sense of European identity is called into question. Some of the countries that in the last fifteen years have become part of the great European family have imagined, in recent months, to play their identity in a key of opposition; some in a key of opposition with Russia - I will return shortly - others in a key of opposition that has symbolically and plastically highlighted itself through the creation of walls. My generation, but I believe the different generations of all of us, knows perfectly well that, if there is one element that has contributed more than others to creating a sense of European identity, this has been the path taken since the collapse of the Berlin Wall. All of us remember the deep emotion of that time, the impression that history was doing overtime and that it was going through exactly that time. Today, twenty-six years later, an incredible fact is happening: the European identity, built around the collapse of the Berlin Wall, is being questioned by countries liberated from that event, who imagine to erect a new wall, opposing fears to fears and imagining to build in negative the sense of their identity. It is on these issues that Italy must make its voice heard; it is on these issues that a solid, strong and responsible country is needed to be heard not in the traditional dimension of "let us go to Europe to defend our interests," but in saying that we are within Europe, which is our home, helping to have a European policy that is not the result of daily hysteria, but is linked to a multi-year horizon. That is why I think the European Council is important. I could certainly now discuss the substance of the fact that, for the first time, we accept the principle of hotspots, relocations on a European basis and returns as a European policy. It is an important, significant issue. For the first time 19 Eritrean boys, a few days ago, were accompanied to take a plane and brought from Lampedusa to Sweden. It is the beginning of a significant number of relocations, which represent a part of the European strategy but which are not important if they are not included in an overall reasoning. The overall reasoning is that at the moment Europe needs to have an attitude that is different from that of the past. It is not with the raids - imagined more to respond to their public opinions than to solve the problems - that they deal with the major issues of international politics. There is no doubt that, in the face of the terrorist threat, there is also the need to respond through the commitment of the military and a great international coalition, of which Italy is part, moreover, with rules of engagement shared in Parliament, indeed, bound by parliamentary decisions. The central point is that in some circumstances - all of you know what we are talking about - there have been moments when some interventions, designed more to settle their own internal public opinions, have produced results that are before everyone's eyes today. If we have to be more clear and say that the intervention in Libya in 2011 did not solve the problems of that country, not only do we say so here, but we will also say it tomorrow, in the presence of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, that the President of the Senate together with the President of the Chamber have appropriately invited, and in the presence - because he will be there too - of the UN Special Envoy to Libya, Bernardino Leon. We need more than just a list of actions: we need a strategy. The European Council will discuss this, particularly with attention on the great Syrian and Turkish scenarios, but at the same time noting that there is a need for a horizon that in the next ten to fifteen years brings Italy to be the protagonist, not everywhere (it cannot be), but in some parts of the world. The strategic line of this government provides large investments in Africa, because we think that over the next ten to twenty years that area of the world will be the most potentially interesting from the point of view of both growth and risks. In fact, we cannot think that phenomena of religious fanaticism or extremism and terror are confined only to Asian countries, because we see it. In fact, when we went to Kenya we all chose together that we could talk in a university after what happened in Garissa and, when we went to Tunis, we all chose to go and pay homage in a museum, a symbol of that city and that country. In fact, when we face a question as a country-system, we do not simply move in the logic of interest, which also exists and is strong, starting from the energy one and in the oil & gas sector, as it is obvious that having our main Italian company a particular interest in that sector, but we do so with a broader geopolitical gaze, which leads to say today that the stabilisation of Egypt, absolutely crucial in that quadrant, also passes from some interventions and investments that can make the Italian enterprise and reality. This is the first chapter of tomorrow's debate at the European Council: a major issue of foreign policy which has internal repercussions and which must be addressed today knowing that when Italy said six months ago that we could not do it alone, that we needed an overall strategy with a response for the immediate and one for the long term, this type of action and approach today is appreciated by the vast majority of the members of the European Union. They do not all accept it, because you know that there is also a very high discussion on this issue, and of course I respect those who are inspired by some countries that are our partners and allies. There are, in fact, those who call themselves a model to Orban or those who claim that their model is similar. I respect this position, but I believe that centuries of civilizations lead Italy to have a different position, that is, that of those who are proud of what they are doing in the Mediterranean with the Coast Guard and the Navy and that at the same time leads to say that the values of solidarity and acceptance that we have shown must be entered in a framework of rules that must finally be European. If, after six months, we can talk about a mission carried out in principle, let us not fool ourselves, because there is still a lot to do, because the scenarios that open before us will not be the simplest (after the European Council, on 11 and 12 November in Valletta there will be a big initiative with African countries; on 15 and 16 November the G20 will take place, this year in Turkey, then the new appointment of the European Council), but 2016 is open to a strong and solid response from Europe. To achieve this, the second concluding point of my introduction to the work of tomorrow addresses issues related to economic governance. The five presidents' report addresses issues related to the UK's stay in the European Union, the so-called referendum on Brexit, and also addresses issues related to strategic development policies in the coming years. Our government and I see it this way, and we say it without too many diplomatic tours: this debate can only make sense if we start from the assumption that in the last seven years (we refer to the beginning of the great crisis in the United States and then, consequently, in Europe) every evaluation that can be made must start from a fact that the economic policy of the European Union has not given the answers that were necessary. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and CoR groups. Comments of the Divine Senator.]] And this fact we say with bitterness, not with satisfaction, of those who know that, if we look together at American data and European data, in the policy of restarting within their borders, the United States has made far better performances. Perhaps it is time to say that a policy of just limiting expenditure, of just rigour and budgetary discipline, of austerity alone, is not enough to revive the economy, but above all the dynamism of a part of Europe that was to be, to follow, granting the evaluation of the Lisbon Strategy, the most brilliant and dynamic piece in the world. It is not; trivially, it was not. It is good then to discuss the governance and the report of the four Presidents (which has become of the five Presidents because the European Parliament has also wanted to get into this dynamic: and well to come), but the point is that every evaluation of governance must start from a consideration on what the strategy is. Before we discuss and discuss which pilot is the best, let's agree on which direction it is. Italy has a clear position and, paradoxically, for Italy an extraordinarily interesting period opens up, and much of the merit is yours, the Senate of the Republic. I come very briefly to explain why. Everything will happen in Europe over the next two years. [[Comments of the Divine Senator.]] In 2017 there will be a referendum in the United Kingdom, elections will be held in France (which are expected to be particularly important) and there will be elections in Germany, after a European scenario where you have seen what has happened in Portugal and Greece (and we will see what will happen in Spain and Poland within a few months). The point is that 2017 is a bit the key date, the watershed. The five Presidents' report also divides between a first part of the short term, potentially feasible immediately, and a second part of the potential revision of the Treaties that is imagined for the follow-up. In this biennium, Italy is more solid and, paradoxically for the recent history of our country, a point of reference in terms of stability. Italy has stopped being considered the problem. Then we can discuss, in the external tale, whether the problem was for its own responsibility or for a different reading that came from our partners and friends; but this is not the place to open a discussion. The fact is that we were perceived as the problem. We were asked to do our homework. This country was charged with a series of alleged shortcomings (presumed or real, then each will evaluate) which led, paradoxically, to the European political debate being deprived of the Italian voice. Every time we posed our problems, our strategy or our solutions, the prejudice was as follows: Before, though, worry about you. You say it for yourselves. Ask for the Growth Pact, rather than the Stability Pact, because it is at your heart. Well, this country shows up in Europe with the debt curve that, since 2016, returns to fall, after nine years. This country presents itself in Europe having done a reform of the labour market within a year, with opinions, as is well known, different in this House, while the fastest and fastest countries (and I am referring to Germany) took three years. This country has made institutional reforms (electoral law, public administration reform) and proudly has constitutional reform, with a more or less shared principle, as is well known, but which gives great solidity to the institutional system. Ours is the Government number 63 and I am the President of the Council number 27 of the history of the Republic in almost seventy years. [[Senator Centinario's comments.]] If the reforms go to completion, as is conceivable and, on our side, desirable, we will have a mechanism in which the President-in-Office of the Council changes once every five years and not once a year. In view of this attitude, which is clear to international public opinion and, above all, to our governments, what does reality say? He says that if Italy continues to do what it is doing, we are paradoxically the only ones or almost on the side of stability. Let us face this two-year period with an attitude in which we can bring our voice, without worrying to hear the others say "you have to do this or that." The growth of Italy is back to being positive and the prospects of our country are back to being inspired by the good weather and not by the storms, and then, in the light of this, there is a great responsibility that we must bring to Europe, that is not simply to do things at home, but to help this continent to understand, on immigration, foreign policy and economic policy, if we simply want to be a set of 507 million individuals united only by a common geographical belonging or if we finally want to return to give Europe a soul. That's why the year 2017 will be very interesting. We will have a greater responsibility: we will not have elections, we will have the G7, we will have in that year the sixty years of the Treaty of Rome, on which the Foreign Minister has already begun a discussion with the five founding countries, to start from the Treaty of Rome and try to have a wide-ranging debate, and all this recalls the individual responsibilities. I have finished, Mr President, tomorrow's European Council is not decisive, it is good to say so. [[Comments of Senator Castaldi),]] But it is a European Council in which anyone who wants to hear the voice of countries that are finally back to being proud of what they are doing. I represent a country, not a government in that case, but a country that hasn't changed its mind. Not many people on immigration can say they haven't changed their minds. Not a lot of people who don't have to justify the turnarounds of the last six months. I represent a country that has a solidity of values that should first of all make us excited by the beauty it expresses, a country that in the next two years will be able to play a key role, also thanks to the fact that women and men who sit in this House, regardless of their political color, have courageously chosen, even in spite of the forecasts of the first year of legislature, to make this a legislature really capable of writing the word end to structural reforms. If we are able in the next two years to finally bring politics to the Brussels palaces, politics not simply as a national interest, but as an interest of the great European homeland to regain a role on issues that have been left to the hysteria of the day after day and to the daily apprehension of public opinion and the media, without a role of foreign policy, we will be consistent with our history of Italians and of Italians and above all we will be able to help Europe. I believe that if there is something new after this long period, it is that Europe has stopped considering Italy as the problem: today Italy can be a part of the solution of European problems. It'll depend on the work of all of us. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and AL-A groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u187	I communicate to the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1 (text 2), No 2 by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, No 3, Senator Centinario and other Senators, No 3, Senator De Petris and other Senators, No 4, Senator Fattori and other Senators, No 5, Senator Barani and other Senators, No 6, Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators, and No 7 by Senator Bonfrisco and other Senators. The lyrics are in distribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u188	I take this opportunity to greet the teachers, students and students of the classical high school "Anco Marzio" in Rome, who follow our work, and the members of the Technical Institute of Krakow, Poland. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u189	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u190	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u192	REPETTI (Misto-IPI). Mr President, there have certainly been bad delays in Europe on immigration, but something has really changed. This change could literally be seen when refugees in Austria and Germany were welcomed with welcome signs and solidarity. VOICE FROM THE LN-AUT GROUP. To your house! REPETTI (Misto-IPI). Unfortunately, before this awareness was determined, we had to witness immense tragedies. Nevertheless, we are now finally on the right path to building a Europe that does not deny its values and takes on its responsibilities. If something has changed, there is no doubt that the merit should be attributed largely to Italy, which, left for too long alone to face an epochal phenomenon, has never surrendered nor has it ever turned back in helping those who needed help. It is mainly up to you, Mr Renzi, if Italy has stood firm and has not been overwhelmed by those who have speculated unscrupulously about a problem that would have required a common national commitment and collaboration between the members of the European Union. For once, let me say that Italy has given a lesson to Europe and also to the world. So, today, in Europe we are finally discussing reception, the organisation of return, the distribution of refugees and the overcoming of the Dublin Treaty. But there is also and above all discussion, because today this is the real hot topic, of a common European policy and strategy to deal with international conflicts, beginning with the Libyan and the Syrian-Iraq conflict. These are issues that cannot be postponed any longer and on which the Italian Government, with the same courage shown so far, must take clear and decisive responsibilities without fear. On the future of the European Union and governance, Mr President, I understand and appreciate the pragmatic and serious approach of your words. It is useless, in fact, to launch projects in a federated Europe without the political conditions today to set such an important goal. I would like to conclude, Mr President, by recalling yesterday's historic approval of constitutional reform, another success of your Government, which will help to demonstrate our ability to reform ourselves and to return to being competitive and protagonists in Europe. Mr Renzi, please, it cannot be said that everything is going well, but many things are going really well: go on like this; get rid of all those owls who would like everything to go wrong, in order not to admit its successes and their failures. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Italy is changing: the Italians are realizing it and Europe is also realizing it. I declare the vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by Mr Zanda. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE). Ironic applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u193	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u195	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, we are well aware that tomorrow's European Council will be a new test for Europe and you go with a smile - what makes you so nice to the Italians - of those who may have said so and of those who, as you proudly mentioned earlier, do not need to change their position: others have had to do so, in defining a global strategy on the subject of immigration, with an effort that goes beyond emergency interventions, responding to the challenge of massive migratory flows, so as to support overall and determined action over time. This you asked, and this is probably - I hope - going to get our country tomorrow. I wonder if the debate at the European Council, which will be held tomorrow, would have had the content that it probably will have had if there had not been the Syrian crisis, if there had not been tens and tens of thousands of refugees crossing Eastern Europe for the first time and not just the shores of our sea. I wonder, in summary, if this did not happen because of absurdity, what the behaviour of Europe would have been today: alas, probably, what it has been for many years, of substantial indifference to what was happening in the Mediterranean, of isolation for what concerned us, of abandonment and absolute disregard for problems that are certainly of epochal nature - you are right to remember - as such; but it is even more serious that Europe, even in the face of epochal problems, never has the courage to take the chorus by the horns. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. We are told that the content of the Treaty of Dublin is finally being called into question and that this will be our merit, a merit of Italian firmness on this front. But then, excuse me, Mr President, why did you not allow the amendments tabled to the constitutional reform, which specifically asked for the possibility of revising, revising and reevaluating those treaties by making the choice of the Italian people, to be accepted? Mr President, the data from the European Frontex Agency are clear and are not exactly the picture that Mr Repetti has now painted: in the first nine months of this year 710,000 migrants have illegally crossed the borders of the European Union, while in the same period of the previous year there were 282,000 illegal crossings. Italians cannot be fooled by saying that for Italy the situation has gone better because the decrease in arrivals that occurred last month - I know that Minister Alfano is very fond of this data - is mainly due to the bad weather and the lack of boats in relation to the demand that remains very strong of crossing the channel of Sicily. We now expect serious commitments for a revision of the Dublin Regulation and for better control of the external borders with the emergence of a Community border security force, but we are already alarmed by the words of Undersecretary Gozi, who is talking about a commitment to gradual integrated border management. Why is the adjective "graduale" used, Undersecretary Gozi? There is nothing gradual; there is an emergency that is even epochal. It is a real invasion and, as such, must be treated and addressed. Mr President, next spring, in fact, we expect a new and more massive wave if the situation in the Middle East does not change for the better - which is not easy to predict - and unfortunately all the data we receive indicate, instead, that it will get worse. The data that the Ministry of the Interior makes public is still at March 30 of this year and, President, I ask you why these data are still at that date, but the projection that you can easily deduce comes to the figure of about 150,000 for 2015. These are the numbers we need to deal with when we talk about immigration. Beyond his considerations, there are also considerations on the vulnerability of our borders and also on how to strengthen our security because the greatest attention must be given, in our opinion, to cooperation between services and intelligence that must help to defend the borders of Europe and our country as a whole. Mr President, do you know what happens in Gorizia? Do you know what happens at the train stops that go to the Brenner, from Verona to the North? If you have it told by the members of that railway police who assist every day in passing through the trains, where a minimum part is stopped, moreover according to criteria of logistic convenience, and a great one is dispersed. They disperse into a territory that already has heavy repercussions. In our opinion, without adequate measures, it is clear that in such a scenario, the Middle East crisis that we all know can be plunged even further into the European Union, even in an irreparable way. That is why we are calling for a more rigorous and timely policy on immigration and security, but not gradual. Italy cannot afford wrong or superficial and less ideological assessments, because under the aegis of the UN and within the precise framework of the United Nations and NATO every effort must be made to ensure the security of our country and of Europe as a whole. There is already NATO, Mr President, and we must strengthen our commitment within that context. We cannot get lost by doubling bureaucratic structures and costs in other joints: we have already made this mistake in Libya and Syria and we risk doing so in Egypt if there were not, thank God, a strong Italian presence of an economic type that perhaps will protect us from this risk. However, we are still in time to save Tunisia, which is a strategic country within our defense and I invite you to double the efforts that the Italian Government is already making so that that country is really a key element of our defence and our geopolitical approach in the Mediterranean, which must be able to guide the European Union in a proper relationship with that country and those lands. In common with them we have a sensitivity and a human trait that are perhaps the best response. You are right about this, Mr President, because we who call for strong defence interventions, including military and armed, know that culture, solidarity, cooperation and intelligent policy intervention come first. Without politics there is no weapon that holds, as only politics can win. We have a cooperation that we have come back to develop - I thank Minister Gentiloni for having given her great impulse - and that must become the figure of Italians in that area to allow us to return to be the protagonists of that chessboard. Of course, it will not be possible to do all this if we in Europe are only to discuss the rigour and flexibility that is possible and if, as we have heard so far from the many European and pro-European Solons, we just have to keep our accounts in order. If we are to ensure peace and security, we need growth and development policies for us and for those who are close to us. Therefore, thank you, President, because no one better than a representative of the Democratic Party and the Premier of our country could defend as you did years of politics of the center-right government that, when they were being vile on this side of the House too, we were obviously not so good at defending. You have been better at defending an intelligent policy carried out by the Centre in the most dramatic years of a financial crisis that asked Europe to be not only the Europe of currency, but the Europe of peoples. I hope that the day has come when Italy really succeeds in translating into practice the feeling of European peoples the proximity of a political structure (which is first and foremost bureaucratic) that costs so much. I would ask you to add this element to the list of Italian proposals: that Europe should think about losing its costs instead of dealing with the countries that are harshly serving a financial crisis, not wanted by us and born elsewhere, but dumped on our territories and on our economy. President Renzi, we invite you to carefully evaluate the resolution that we are proposing to you on the basis of what I have just described and good intentions that - I am sure - concern all the Groups, in the interests of the Italians, their defence and a correct, unbalanced relationship, with a migratory wave that the Italians cannot pay. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u196	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u198	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, twenty months ago in this House, at the start of your presidential term, you already wanted to talk about the Mediterranean and wanted to give considerable space to what you had identified as a very important and strategic field of action for our country. We are now discussing this subject again and certainly cannot do so as if it were the first time. There have been several opportunities to meet. The Senate in its presence, but also in the structure of the 14th Commission, was able to discuss this subject very strongly. I think we have now cleared out the misunderstanding that sometimes, when we talk about Europe, we feel we are talking about foreign policy. I believe that we have now acquired as a value and as a principle the fact that, when we talk about Europe, we talk about internal policy, with the problems and with everything that has been said about the hardness and inability, from the point of view of economic and financial planning and from the point of view of the need to address the economic and social problems of our Europe, of that body of which we are now an integral part. When we talk about the Mediterranean, we clearly do so not only as Italy, but also as Europe, looking at this foreign policy. Europe, despite the Italian Presidency of the European Union, has had an imbalance in the east and a special focus on the eastern border of Europe rather than on the Mediterranean. We do not repeat this controversially, because we have never been biased in foreign policy and we have never considered ourselves opposition when we dealt with issues relating to Italian foreign policy. We have not animated a policy for the Mediterranean area and we have not been consequential. Mr Renzi, you said - and it is true - that we must still be moved by our values; these values can contribute to the development of relations and peace in this area. When we feel emotional in feeling Italian and Mediterranean and in feeling ourselves bearers of history and values, this is not only our presumption, but this is absolutely recognized by Egypt, Morocco, Tunisia and all the countries of the Maghreb area, which look to Italy as the bearer of these values. But, precisely for this reason, we cannot entrust Italian politics in the Mediterranean and European politics in the Mediterranean to the usual cloth. Barcelona failed; the European approach to the Mediterranean failed, because we still had the idea of taking European businesses and installing them on the African continent. We still had the idea that if we went there and built aqueducts with our businesses, then there would be a flourishing agriculture. That is no longer the case, Mr President-in-Office. We must build a Mediterranean identity and, in order to do this, we must also risk contamination. We must think about Erasmus for the Mediterranean countries, we must think about making a new African and European generation grow, that grows in the idea that we are not saved, that terrors belong to all, that terrorists do not kill this or that person, but that, for every person who dies of terrorism, it is a part of civilization that fails, because not only do we touch affections, but we touch the fundamental principle on which coexistence is based. And we have to look at this coexistence. I thought I was saying something that might interest the President of the Council. I'm really sorry to find... I understand that it will also be the fault of colleagues, but they will realize that this is slightly mortifying, especially when they tend to intervene in the most general interest and certainly not to take sides. I apologise, President. I hope that you will give me an extra minute for the digression that the President-in-Office of the Council has induced. I must tell you, therefore, that with a policy of cooperation that does not look at a different idea of investment in the Mediterranean, if we do not favour the growth of institutions that can allow joint ventures between European companies and African companies, we will always give the idea of colonization, and it is an idea that we can no longer give because we exasperate the minds of the new generations. Tomorrow you will meet Leon and all the others: they are finding a solution for Libya that will never pass because, when out of 17 names of the new Government that they propose, 80% is from Cyrenaica, leaving 20% to all other parts of the country, who want to make fun of it? Why on the part of Italy, with our wealth of civilizations, do not favor what is born spontaneously on the territory (may be the municipalities, the places); why not promote the dialogue between the municipalities that I have already started? Are we also going to be neocolonial and say that the UN has decided, that the UN has thought, and this is stabilisation? Among other things, with the suspicion that only Cyrenaica is the place where there are the energy interests closest to Italy, thus insinuating the doubt that we are precisely the animators of this type of policy. We must change politics, Mr President, because otherwise the feelings you say you have towards the Mediterranean, the wealth of civilizations you say you feel about yourself (and that we feel about you), if you do not translate into concrete facts of political action and government will not make sense, and you will not have it as Italy and as Europe, if it is true - as it is true - that I and Senator Martini last week, going to discuss with the Egyptian institutions, we have heard that a billion euros allocated by the European Union for investments in Egypt cannot be spent because even lack the ability of the class of officials in that country to activate spending mechanisms. I say to you, then: they look to Italy with great attention; why can't our High School of Public Administration offer the formation of the ruling class of some countries? Why not give that signal of attention that it is not just the traditional concept of development cooperation, which has often turned into partisan interests that have not contributed to the effective growth of those countries? I speak of these problems and I speak of them as a Sicilian. I am of Ragusa, President, I receive the migratory flows directly and I cannot be indignant about the arrival of these flows; I can worry and worry about seeing so many women and young people forced to leave their lands. Let us imagine that each of us must leave his own land, his own home and see his son leave for desperation; but this despair is not fought with the goodness of the facade or with the emerging operations; we fight going to the place and changing mentality, offering the opportunity of development also to this great continent, which is Africa. You said, President Renzi - I pointed out and pointed out - that you look at the great investments in the African continent: it is good and fair. We fully agree that there may also be, of course, a prospect of economic growth in our case, but we must get rich in something that only we have, and that is our values. I remind you that Frederick II was excommunicated in order not to make a crusade against the so-called infidels because already then, in 1200, he saw in the Mediterranean perspective the Italian perspective. With this historical reference, and thanking President Grasso for the time he has given me for the intervention, I ask you to represent Italy and to do so as Italian Premier but above all as Premier of one of the European Member States, with this conviction: European foreign policy is done in the Mediterranean, and it is done according to new rules and principles, according to a completely different approach. This will not only help Europe to look like a friend: it will also help Italy to grow more thriving in all parts of its territory. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, PPI, FV, M).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u199	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u201	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, thank you. Premier Renzi, unfortunately you too today resorted to your unscrupulous cynicism remembering little Aylan. You, together with Minister Alfano, have been trying for months to make the country believe that Italian politics had succeeded in influencing and dictating the European policy in terms of migration issues. Nothing more false: not only do I think that the Dublin Rules of Procedure will not be exceeded, but in the draft conclusion of the European Council tomorrow President Tusk says things different from what you have told the House. The draft conclusions refer to strictness, strict control of the external borders of the European Union and rejections, which is far from a permissive policy as many people in our country would like, perhaps eliminating the distinction between refugees and economic migrants. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The idea that there is a willingness in Europe to deal with migratory flows without cessation of permissiveness agrees with us. On the other hand, we are very concerned about the tendency to regard Turkey as a possible reliable partner of the European Union, precisely when doubts are being raised about the role played by the Government of Ankara in the genesis of the migration crisis that has upset Europe in recent months, flooding it with refugees fleeing Syria, Afghanistan and Pakistan and doubts about its role in the genesis and growth of ISIS. They should reflect the news of a large illegal market in Turkey of fake passports that turns migrants into Syrians, people who are known to have the right to international protection. In our opinion, behind the apparent willingness of the Turkish authorities to retain refugees in transit on their territory in exchange for European funds, to be used for setting up camps on Syrian soil, Turkey's will to use the migratory lever to obtain funds with which to pursue its national objectives in Syria and to condition the political choices of the European Union, including that of speeding up the country's entry into Europe, is a very dangerous possibility that we are not prepared to accept. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Turkey is and must remain a foreign body to a centuries-old European culture. On hotspots, returns and relocation, the three pillars flagged by the government to face the phenomenon of immigration, some reflection. Italy has been a commissioner on the recognition of immigrants. Our country, after having been repeatedly called for missed photosignals, has suffered from the European Union the imposition of hotspots with staff of the Member States and the European Asylum Support Office (EASO), Frontex and Europol. Where are the returns of economic migrants, President? To this day little or nothing. On the other hand, how could it be different? You have zeroed the return fund that until 2013 was 90 million, while today it is reduced to crumbs, but not because you spent it for the purpose, but because you have dusted it to finance the reception system where the Buzzi, the Odevaie and who knows how many others have drawn with full hands. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] On the relocation of refugees with clear need for international protection, after months of European agenda an agreement has been found on 40,000 migrants of which 24,000 from Italy for the next two years: little, also considering the other quota of 15.600, since from the beginning of the year only 500,000 migrants have registered between Italy, Greece and Spain. Last week, as a Government in Lampedusa, you even organized a ceremony with a large pomp and a tailpiece of television following Minister Alfano for the departure of 19 Eritreans to Sweden. It does nothing if on the same day and on the next ones they landed thousands and if in the same days you have sent hundreds in the Italian Regions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Here we must say how things stand to expose your hypocrisy. Migrants with nationalities may be placed who actually need international protection, so Syrians, Eritreans and perhaps Iraqis. And since in 2014 less than 1,800 of this nationality have applied for asylum in Italy, I doubt that in two years we will reach 24,000. Mr President, it is as if a glass were trying to empty water from a ship with a huge leak. You'll never be able to. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Pull factor. In human migration processes there are push factors (push factors), such as wars and persecutions. But there are also attraction factors (pull factor) that push you to move to reach them. Yesterday President Tusk said that one of the main pull factor of migration is the very easy access to Europe. Hence the need to defend borders through the possible creation of European border guards. The problem is that in Italy these pull factor are many and constantly increasing. Despite the Balkan route, the landings in Italy - alas - are still very high. We are at the same level as last year's 170,000 and, moreover (I stress this) your Government's transparency on data is close to zero. Here are the factors of attraction made in Italy. Firstly, the repeal of the crime of illegal immigration. Second: Mare nostrum, first, and Triton, now, for the awareness of the hullers who, launched the request for help, know that the aircraft arrives up to the Libyan coasts for rescue operations. It's more than a scafisti deterrent! Thirdly, the reception system for all, including "clearly economic migrants." For them not only lunch and dinner paid by the Italians, but clothing, pocket money, mobile phone with phone card and demand of the wi-fi network. At the end of September there were 98,000 migrants at an annual rate of over one billion euros. It was 22,000 in 2013 and 66,000 in 2014. Exponential growth. Of the 98,000, 69,000 - 70 percent - are placed in temporary facilities (faulty houses, hotels and resorts, perhaps with swimming pool) and often without the mayors knowing. Many of them complain, while millions of Italian citizens, including so many elderly people, live in hunger and are forced to live by car. Now, as a new factor of attraction, there is also easy citizenship with the ius soli voted yesterday in the House with a very enlarged majority. Citizenship, Prime Minister Renzi, is not a gift to anyone; it should be the point of arrival of a possible integration path, not the other way around. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] However, beyond the decisions of the European Council, Mr President, do your homework right away: speed up the evaluation of asylum applications. We need more committees, we need more than the current 40, and we need more staff in the full-time committees. Then set up in the courts of the special sections, specialised in asylum, to deal with and deal with appeals in fast times. In Austria the time is four months and two months respectively for the application of first and second instance: why do we have to take nine months and two or three years respectively in Italy? It is enough to feed the hospitality industry, where cooperatives of every color do gold business. Fastening is also necessary in the light of the results of the questions that certify that in the last three years the denials and therefore the economic migrants have increased significantly. In the years 2013, 2014 and 2015 the recognized percentages of refugees were 13, 10 and 5 percent, therefore decreasing. Therefore, as the data certify, those fleeing from wars are only a very small part. Minister Alfano (which I do not see present) makes an event, not the next relocation of migrants, but the departure of a charter plane for return. That will certainly represent an element of deterrent and not a pull factor. The citizens want the hundreds of illegals to be repatriated on the plane who are not entitled to protection and who instead remain for years to increase the reception system and therefore the immigration business so loved by this Government. You must begin to deal with immigration rigorously, with rules, abandoning hypocrisy and goodness. You owe it first of all to Italians, to our people, but you also owe it above all to the same regular immigrants who today live in Italy. Begin to clarify and highlight the two classes of immigrants. In fact, there are refugees fleeing from wars and persecutions, who have the right to protection and can remain, and then there are economic migrants, that is, illegal immigrants, who are the majority, who must instead be repatriated. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u202	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u204	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the speech by the President-in-Office of the Council was brief but intense. The points raised are those of the European Agenda (immigration, the situation in the Mediterranean, the document of the five Presidents), but the tone has not always been uniform. It is good to remember the delays with which Europe has become aware of the problem of that great exodus represented by immigration; it is also good to claim the battles sustained by Italy when others did not see or did not want to see, and then suddenly to be faced with a rising tide, which - like the tide in fact - in the end spares no one. Similarly, when the emergency became continental, a fact that was not only about the southern border of Europe, the existence of a problem and - if I may say so - a common destiny has been rediscovered. The sudden decisions of Angela Merkel in the sign of acceptance have modified a perception previously felt only by some, but then that great gesture of solidarity had to deal with the data of a reality difficult to master, until determining reactions of opposite sign. And that is when that request for solidarity, which had been unheard of by Italy alone or by the majority of Greece, turned into a common cry. In the meantime, however, valuable and necessary time had been wasted to prepare the necessary measures to deal with an emergency that has the characteristics we know and that cannot be said to be resolved by recent decisions that have led to the distribution of refugees among all European countries. In this case, in fact, the disproportion of numbers is evident: we can ensure a better fate for those 160,000 unfortunate, but what about the other million? How can we guarantee them a minimum of assistance or provide for their most basic needs? This is still the great unknown that weighs on the European debate, provided that this wants to be the child of a frank and not comfortable debate, built only to dump on some a problem that is rather general. The hope is therefore that the European summit tomorrow and after tomorrow, Mr President, will not end with the use of weapons of minimalism or postponement, but will take up the real facts, and this will be the result of an operation of truth. In his speech, the President-in-Office reminded us of the forthcoming electoral deadlines for several European countries: Spain, France and Germany. Many will interpret this hint as a putting their hands forward. It will be said that this is not the time for strong decisions, that we must wait for the situation to decay. For our part, we do not believe that this is the case, that this must be the case. We can't wait for 2017 to take action. Because otherwise, by then, the situation risks being out of control. In order to prevent this from happening, it is necessary to identify a reception strategy based on actual facts. On an intelligence that considers, in a realistic way, the effective flow of immigration, which distinguishes refugees from simple migrants for economic reasons and behaves accordingly: providing forms of assistance for the former, on the basis of international rules, and the immediate return for the latter. At the same time, the necessary financial resources will have to be provided, which cannot be burdened on the individual state, but must be found at European level. These are the immediate measures to be taken to deal with what we might call a planning of despair. However, quota measures represent only a horn of the dilemma. It is clear that the phenomenon is destined to continue, at least until the black caliphate is militarily defeated. I greatly appreciated the vision of the President-in-Office of the Council. The connection, the link as he would have preferred to say, between the problems that connect the Mediterranean to Africa, and this area of the world to continents even further away, such as South-East Asia or territories of Russia, inhabited mainly by Muslims: Putin's great concern that drives him, beyond the traditional strategy of Santa Mother Russia, to intervene so hard in the main theatre of the conflict. With this new reality - that of ISIS - we have to deal with it. Trying to understand its essence, which is the indispensable prerequisite for developing a correct strategy. The President of the Council speaks of fanaticism and religious extremism. There is, of course, this too. But I am not convinced that this is the main key to interpretation. Even at the cost of sinning Eurocentrism I agree with Giuliano Amato, when he reminds us that this movement resembles a drop of water to the Nazism that has bloodied Europe. In the 1930s, books were burned as an expression of decadent art. But the hierarchs were making art. ISIS destroys the oldest vestiges in human history. Testimonies of epochs preceding the same monotheistic religions. The Nazis tortured and resorted to the horrors of genocide. ISIS does the same by using the media world as a scenario of a delusion of omnipotence. A form of attraction for thousands of disbanded - foreign fighters - who from faraway countries increase the ranks of terror. These similarities would suffice. But Nazism was above all a vocation to territorial expansion. The world seen as a great territory of conquest on which to wave the hooked flags. It was the great fault of the powers of then - France and England above all - that with the Covenant of Monaco they could not stop in time that monster that was advancing. We can't make the same mistake. Those armies - the ISIS armies - must be stopped and defeated. Good luck if you can. But I doubt it. And then with the use of force, to avert an even greater tragedy. That is the role of Italy and Europe. Contribute to the birth of this awareness among the great friendly powers. To ensure that the United States and Russia can find, together with NATO, a moment of convergence against the main enemy. We know that interests are not convergent. But neither were they during World War II. Yet Roosevelt chose Stalin to fight Hitler, except to deal with the Soviet Bear when the main enemy was eliminated. We have to repeat the same pattern. Is Assad, the Syrian president, an obstacle? Of course. But the accounts with him can be made later, when the weapons will remain silent and the black caliphate will be forced to surrender. What is the alternative? The final disappearance of Syria as a sovereign state? The division of that territory between Turkey, Iran and Saudi Arabia? Even if it were, the black caliphate, not militarily defeated, will continue to exist on the conquered territories. It will continue to be a center of global subversion. A nine-headed hydra capable of poisoning with her breath, as Greek mythology tells us, every part of the planet. It will be at the time the celebration of Assad's power, supported by Putin. Russia alone can hardly win this war. But alone she is able to militarily defend a space that she considers vital. As you can see, Mr President-in-Office, the problems are extremely complex. They require tenacity, patience and a strong ability to convince. It is a hard test for Italy and for Europe, but a challenge to which we cannot give up if, as in the case of immigration, we do not want to be overwhelmed, in the short space of a few months, by far more destabilizing phenomena. The hope is therefore that she will be able to do her part, bearing witness to a position that is shared - at least as I hope - by the majority of the Senate. For the rest, I can only share your reservations. The five Presidents' document is an important fact, but it is only if it is included in a broader reflection on the fate of Europe in the major areas of the planet. Out of this perspective, it is only a bureaucratic act, inadequate to deal with the real problems of an increasingly anemic continent, where austerity policies have created a desert, denying the future to most of its peoples who today, although confused, rebel in the illusory quest for sudden breaks that would transform a ship misplaced, as is Europe today, into a boat in the ocean of globalization. To populism in ambush we must respond by taking up the path of development, using solidarity between the different States until yesterday sacrificed on the altar of selfishness without prospects. The conditions for a change of pace are all there, starting with Germany, where the Volkswagen case and the Deutsche Bank case have demonstrated all the limitations of an economic policy that is geared towards accumulating surplus balance of payments, which has depressed the rest of the European economy. We hope that the lesson has served and that we can move as soon as possible to a revival of the domestic demand of that country, as locomotive that can drive the economy of the other countries, thus contributing to a stabilization of the whole of Europe. Mr President, we will be with you tomorrow, because we know that with the reforms you are moving forward you can make the interest of Europe and, above all, of Italian citizens. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u205	Colleagues, we greet teachers, students and students of the economic and social high school "Giordano Bianchi Dottula" of Bari, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u206	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u208	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that the words of the President-in-Office of the Council, together with those given to the House this morning, bear in mind the absolutely delicate phase that the world is experiencing. In front of us there are epochal changes that do not only concern stability or international power relations; these changes enter the house and do so with the pain of those who run away from theaters of war, but also have the appearance of that entrepreneur who has to deal with sanctions against Russia. We have all been moved by the extraordinary pages of solidarity that Europe has written over the past few weeks and we have been outraged when someone has tried to raise the walls, to kick those who ran away from the horrors of a war. Europe, which has been deaf and indifferent for too long, seems to be rediscovering the spirit of its founding fathers in recent weeks. Today we can say that Italian reasons have broken down: migratory flows are no longer a matter of public order of strictly Italian responsibility, but a political issue that concerns, concerns and demands the intervention of the whole of Europe. Today, you are right, Mr President, we are no longer alone. The Dublin Rules fell under the wind of history. However, we have an even greater responsibility. Europe must put in place a high and authoritative policy to govern reception, to prevent the emergence of forms of intolerance, to restore stability in those territories experiencing the anguish of war and terrorism. We know that the situation has taken on an exceptional complexity, from which we can only emerge with courageous and united political action, overcoming that pre-fall world syndrome of the Berlin Wall, which determines many choices and many attitudes. It is something that I have been able to touch with my hand, participating in the meetings of the parliamentary delegations of the NATO member countries: a sort of conditional reflection, which does not help in the search for the best solutions to defeat ISIS and ensure the world balance. For this reason, I find the view you have expressed on the Syrian question convincing: there is no point in contracting it to Russia, after long excluding it from a shared reasoning on the political situation in that area. It is also true, however - and this Europe cannot pretend not to see it - that there are extraordinary buds of secular, modern civil society and, in some cases, heroic, with brave young people fighting for a different Islam in those territories that are so large and heterogeneous, even in those areas not affected by the war at this time. Who knew the quartet that allowed the Tunisian spring not to implode in a regime until the Nobel Peace Prize was won? Who knows the cultural revolution of young Iranians who challenge the most intolerant religious fanaticism with music on the roofs? And who is concerned with the extraordinary civilian response that the Turkish people, and the Kurdish people in particular, gave the day before yesterday in the streets of Ankara, against the blind violence that caused 128 deaths? I believe that when we talk about putting at the centre a high and authoritative policy to resolve the conflicts that persist between North Africa and the Middle East, we must also think about this, how we all know how to question those territories and the ability to establish alliances and look forward to how good it is moving in those societies. Italy can and must bring this point of view into the international assembly. I have personally established the esteem that our country enjoys at NATO meetings: an appreciation for an Italy that has never backtracked from the effort of responsibility that the international community has required us in recent years; an estimate that today also joins credibility, especially in Europe, for the way in which public finances have been managed and for those reforms that make our country more modern. The reform of the Senate is also an important message given to all our international partners, not only to those of a political nature. There is satisfaction on our part with a large majority vote, therefore with great attention to our specificity also from the Government, but there is also an important expectation for how these reforms will make the Italian voice stronger, especially in the European context, where we want - as you said today - less rigour, less austerity and more growth, starting with the Stability Pact. Every year we ask for its relaxation in order to be able to use the huge resources unduly blocked: we are waiting for the law of stability to understand if there is from the Government the will to unlock at least a part of these resources that serve as the air that you breathe. Now that one, albeit minimal, partial derogation to meet the development needs of the state has managed to tear it away from Europe, we ask it to drop part of the derogation obtained on the territorial authorities, who suffer from the same situation and need to carry out interventions on indispensable structures. I ask you to have courage and do so at least with the virtuous realities that have the accounts in place and present a very low level of indebtedness, as in the case of our autonomous Province. We need to focus on growth and at the same time less constraints, in order to make the image of a Europe that finds itself, not only in the courage with which it intervenes with respect to the sufferings of those who escape from the territories of war, but also in the way in which it helps our entrepreneurial system to leave behind the crisis and therefore knows how to take care of the growth, well-being and development of the peoples that make up it. They are not two distinct things, but faces of the same coin, which feed each other: the more Europe will be on the side of its peoples and the more it will be able to exercise its authority at international level, because it will be driven by the feeling, culture, values and soul, as you have defined today, of a continent that has its roots in concepts such as equality and freedom. The challenges, dear President, are these: we wish you good work, with the support of the Group for Autonomies-PSI-MAIE and the Trentino Autonomists [[Applause from the Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and AP (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u209	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u211	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I think it was right this summer for the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Renzi, to reply, in particular, to very shameful statements such as those of the head of the North League, for example, which we have heard in a political debate very marked by the propaganda that we have heard all these months. You are right, Mr President, you are quite right: we should really give up the easy demagogy in order to take a few more votes. Politics should return to its natural role, that of not simply going behind the public opinions, the "belly" of the country, the fears, but precisely the noblest and truest one, that of building a common sense and not - I repeat - chasing fears. Mr President, I should like to tell you quite frankly that this proper consideration should always be remembered and not only when it suits you. You and your ministers should remember that. President, unfortunately you were the first to bow to this propaganda, to the propaganda of the League, to the nonsense that Beppe Grillo wrote on his blog sometimes. I think, for example, when you removed the Mare nostrum mission. I remember that Mr Alfano was sitting in his place in this House when we talked about the possibility of replacing Mare nostrum with Triton and someone told him to be careful because there would be new massacres because the Frontex mission has characteristics totally different from those of Mare nostrum. I remember seeing this evidence denied. Mr President, it was a minister of yours who spoke, not a passerby. I also remember some absurd statements, some tweets from some right-wing congressman, who said, perhaps even a little provocatively, to take the boats by cannon. I would have expected more answers and, instead, that has even become the government's line in some cases. I think - I really tell you with great sincerity - that you should have had much more courage. The things you are telling us today are not enough because this cultural devastation that has occurred in this country is born and moves precisely from the lack of courage that has been there over all these years. You would, for example, have had to clearly say some indisputable truths. For example, that immigration is an unstoppable flow, a devastating fruit also and above all of the dramatic choices that have been made in all these years, of the resounding errors of the West, of the wars that do not serve. It is not enough to raise walls, sink boats or patrol the sea to stop immigration. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. You should also have told another truth, which many times escapes the builders of fear, the demagogues that we are often forced to listen to. It is an unspeakable truth which perhaps cannot be said, namely that Europe is an ever-older continent, that the demographic decline with which we measure ourselves on this continent will lead us to an irreversible crisis. You should have had the courage to completely change paradigm and imagine immigration no longer as a scarecrow to be thrown to the easy fears, but as a resource and an opportunity. We must remain human, not simply because we must make solidarity clearly an element that is an essential political and cultural port for Europe today, but also because we must make the phrase "stay human" a broad political project, exactly what has been lacking in all these months. This is the main criticism we make of them, that we did not realize that during these years we had to oppose that propaganda another vision of the world. I would like to hear from you, the majority in government, the Democratic Party, President Renzi, the courage that has not been there in all these months and that still does not exist, even in the things that we have heard tonight. I think, for example, when it is said that Dublin is no longer there, when we know, instead, that we will have to wait perhaps for March 2016 to know what will be the plan to redefine that Treaty; but there are migrants. There are on the cliffs of Ventimiglia, in Lampedusa, in the middle of the sea and there are also in December, January and February. They won't wait until March 2016. Then perhaps we should say clearer words to them; just as we should say clear words which cannot be postponed, but which I find once again on no motion, except in what we of the Left have presented Ecology and Freedom: humanitarian corridors at once. I repeat: humanitarian corridors now. European right of asylum and overcoming CIEs and CARAs with the SPRAR system. We should do a much more complete analysis also and above all on the reception system: 70,000 migrants live in emerging structures, 7,000 in the CARA and 20,000 are instead included in the SPRAR system, which should be assumed as a model on which to build an integrated reception path. Is it possible that over the last few months it has been impossible to make a serious reflection on this issue and the numbers we are dealing with? I very much agree that European policies must be radically changed. Of course, it is perfectly right and sacrosanct to radically change European policies, but that means, once again, telling a great truth, that the recipes followed over the last few years have failed. These recipes were unsuccessful and not only did they not get the continent out of the crisis, but they helped to make the crisis so serious and dramatic. Behind those recipes, however, President, there was a basic idea, which was that one could intervene on the effects of liberalism by tempering the most perverse ones. This idea, however, was not born out of nothing, but it was also given birth in some circles linked to European socialism and, for example, to the thought of Tony Blair. It's been exactly the line we've been following all these years. Mr President, your reforms, beyond what you tell us and the need to change European policies, are still exactly within that line, because the jobs act or good school are nothing but reforms in complete continuity with that political line, with the paradox that that Tony Blair in his country stopped being a reference point for the left and the socialists, today becomes it, fifteen years later, in our country. This really is an incredible paradox. Changing Europe means precisely trying to change this ideological paradigm, for example by harshly admonishing countries, such as Orbán's Hungary, which trample on human rights. This also means - and I want to say this very clearly and clearly once and for all, because tears are no longer enough - that we cannot simply mourn the deaths of Ankara. Of course we must mourn the deaths of Ankara, but once and for all we must resolve the Kurdish issue, for example by saying aloud that the PKK is not a terrorist organization, but a bulwark of freedom against the Islamic State. Changing Europe means no longer making those easy divisions, which we have also heard in today's debate, between those who die of war, those who starve and those who die of climate change. In any case, if you really want to make this division, at least fully strengthen international cooperation. This is what our country needs: this courage serves our country today. We will listen to her and support her if she wants to risk this and really change her way, as she said some time ago, by seriously doing so and by radically questioning the policies we have faced this year, by systematically declaring their failure. For example, in the area of immigration, special solidarity funds should be sought for immigration and asylum policies. If you, Mr President, try to sideline and change paradigm, radically changing the approach we have been facing in recent years, we will certainly listen to it and support it. However, we are very sceptical because this requires great courage. If, on the other hand, it is only a matter of listening to a speech that is less worse and certainly very different - alive god - than that of the North League of Salvini or the 5 Star Movement, with only slightly better reasonings, well that is not enough for us anymore. We no longer want to be content with the least worst; we really want to change Europe to the end. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u212	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u213	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u214	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in my opinion we have a duty: to prevent this Senate from becoming or becoming, on occasions like these, a conversation where we all repeat everything. I would like to say three or four things, putting them to your attention, in order to give our indication of the issues of international policy that are on the table at the European Council. Firstly, you said that there is no strategy. There's no strategy. And do you know where a strategy is missing? In what we consider to be the cornerstone of the policy of these days, that is, in the Mediterranean policy. We made Barcelona, we forgot Barcelona. We have a two-thirds European Union neighbourhood policy towards the North-East and a Mediterranean policy that is not done as a European Union. The great battle of Italy, according to the best tradition of Christian democratic politics, and also that of the great socialists [[Applause from Senator Buemi]] in this country, which has directed our government policy, is to ask in Europe that there be less shortsightedness and that even the countries of the North, which today are the recipients, like us, of this dramatic flow of refugees from the Mediterranean, understand that this is a European emergency. A neighbourhood policy is built on the Mediterranean priority. Secondly, the issue of refugees. She said: we were right. Allow me to say that we, who supported your Government, were right, when we explained to our colleagues in the League and to other colleagues, who perhaps attacked Mr Alfano in an unconclusive way, which frankly is not understood, except for a fact... [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] No wonder I'm impressed. When you're done... [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Lessons from you don't! CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Our colleagues... [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u215	Senator Centinario, governs his group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u216	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Our colleagues who inconclusively attack Minister Alfano to cover their emptiness should realize that today refugees are not only coming from Lampedusa, but are coming from Turkey. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Mixed Groups. Comments from the LN-Aut Group]] and go, more than in other countries, in European countries, to show that you have understood nothing of the migratory phenomena that affect the Mediterranean. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and Mixed Groups. Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] I understand the frustration, ladies and gentlemen, because even with Maroni as Minister of the Interior things went the same way. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC). Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] But this situation is a Mediterranean emergency and a problem that Europe does not pose. Third question. I would like us to reflect on one fact: we have done everything, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, so that so many countries that were on the other side, in the north-east of Europe, would enter the European Union. Enlargement, according to some people's fears, also coincided with watering down, but ethically, morally and politically it was right to accept these countries. Today, we see - and we should understand why - that these countries are the first to react against these invasions, and perhaps to believe that Europe, of which they are bearers, is that of the walls. Why? Because these countries - we must understand them to the full - have been expropriated by the Soviet Union for years, and today they are afraid that Islam will be the new holder of a sort of decision imposing itself on their autonomy. But we, Mr President, cannot accept the idea that the neighbourhood policy with Russia is determined by the anxieties of the Baltic countries, because either we associate Russia with the fight against terrorism or we will never win it. [[Applause from the AP groups (NCD-UDC) andAut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Molinari]] We want the great issue of Syria, as well as Iraq, to be resolved by associating the United States, Russia, the European countries and the countries of the Islamic world, which are divided not only by a conflict between Sunnis and Shiites but also by an inter-Sunni conflict, because there is no doubt that Turkey and Egypt are both Sunnis, but there is no doubt that they are today among the main competitors in that area. There is no longer a traditional logic. We fought terrorism because it came to invade our cities, because it came to put bombs in our stations. Today it is all another speech, because this traditional challenge is associated with the creation of terrorist states. The status defined after the First and Second World Wars have been missed. We have a phenomenon like that of foreign fighters, which is also the reason Putin moves. Look what's going on in Afghanistan. In Afghanistan the Taliban have taken a location north of the country where thousands of fighters are reported coming from the Republics near Russia to those Caucasian Republics, from Chechnya and also from China. It is not by chance that in the future this kind of misreading - let's say war-making - of a certain Islam is likely to affect not only us but also Russia and China. That is why we must associate these powers. Woe to continue in a policy of confrontation with Russia that leads us to have nostalgia for the Cold War. I have been to many meetings - Minister Pinotti more than I and she more than we - where we witness a sort of nostalgia for the Cold War; but we do not have nostalgia for the Cold War. We're the ones in Sea Practice. And I say this because it is a matter of national unity that should inflate even those who oppose this Government. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) andAut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE.]] We are the ones who have led Russia to join NATO and not to oppose it in a sort of revival of the 1970s. The other big issue is the English referendum. President, England outside the European Union is weaker, but the European Union will no longer be what it is without Britain. We must do everything we can to promote the negotiation that Cameron will inevitably put on the European table. Turkey is also a great issue, on which we have clear European responsibilities. When, in 2003, against the opinion of Italy, France and Germany, they closed the doors to negotiations with Turkey, they laid the foundations for a dangerous swaying of that country towards the Islamic world. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]] This has led to a very worrying state that we see today as a threat, but we must try to understand, to investigate. Let us not stop deepening our dialogue with Turkey. You must do everything from this point of view, even to say our reasons for dissent in the Turkish authorities, but let us not exclude continuing the dialogue with Turkey, because it is a fundamental point. [[Senator Council's comments.]] Similarly, if I may, on some countries: let us all go and do the demonstrations after a tragic affair hits Tunisia, but there are documents from the G8, of the European Union, about the spending commitments that are made to Tunisia after all tourists escape because it is clear that the only source of income of that country is hit, and in the end they are all commitments that are not fulfilled. How then can Europe, the West, be credible? Finally, my last argument is that with the members of the Foreign Commission we have just heard Dr Descalzi talking about geopolitical strategies in the Mediterranean with regard to what ENI is doing. You have rightly spoken about the reforms and I conclude with this sort of question that I would like to ask. Within a year ENI is able to put in place the greatest discovery that has been made in recent years a few hundred kilometers from the Egyptian coast and a colleague asked Dr. Descalzi if this discovery had been made in Italy, how long it would have taken to get to the same point. That is the big question. The issue of timing and timing, therefore, is no longer a variable element: it is a fundamental point, if we want to be credible. In my opinion, compared to a few years ago, even for what the governments that preceded his - it is right to say and remember - Italy today is more credible because it made difficult choices and I am very sorry that those of these choices had to be boasted in some way because they were also the result of their own birth and of their own elaboration he pulled out from a path that is important for the future of our children. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u217	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u219	FACTORS (M5S). Thank you, Mr President, and thank the Government. Four months ago we were here discussing the European Council in which we were going to talk about immigration emergency and today we are again talking about another European Council in which we are talking, once again, about immigration emergency, so all this self-celebration of how we are good at solving problems maybe I would leave it aside and I would say rather that the emergency has become structural, so let us try to stand on the ground. The government tells us that it was just asking for a revision of the Dublin regulation. We must say that the 5 Star Movement has been alone, in these years, asking for the same things. In 2014 we saw the adoption of our OSCE resolution in which we specifically asked for the revision of the Dublin Regulation, in December the motion Di Stefano, in which we asked the government to commit itself to the overcoming of Dublin: appeals essentially unheard. Those who were alone, therefore, in spite of the demagogy of this Parliament who blames us who knows what involvement in the problem of immigration, were us. We have always dealt with the problem very intelligently, making proposals that are mostly unheard of. We were alone even when we went around to control the various right and left cooperatives that managed the phenomenon of immigration that, as we remember, yielded more money than drugs. We were alone when we presented some exhibits for the incorrect custody of these contracts, I myself submitted a statement years ago for a reliance on the cooperative La Cascina, a question to which the Minister replied that the contract was very well given, well a few months later the arrests arrived. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So let us say that our contribution was important both internally and externally, we were right both internally and internally, with regard to the ill-management of immigration by cooperatives of all colors, we were right at European level to ask for those few points that you are asking for today: the overcoming of the Dublin Regulation, the establishment of a European asylum system with mutual recognition of asylum procedures, humanitarian corridors, hotspots. These are all things we've been asking for for a long time. Let us not be offended if you make our proposals yours, indeed we feel strengthened by the fact that when we rule we will have good ideas and we will be far-sighted. However, let us turn to the substance, because I like to be on the piece and tell you what we are asking of you today and what we are asking of you to vote in favour. It is true that Europe is beginning to think that immigration is not only an Italian problem, but this - I am sorry, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - is not due to the strength of Italy, it is simply due to the fact that winter has begun and migrations no longer take place by sea, as well as to the fact that the Syrian civil war has intensified and therefore refugees from Syria prefer to follow the path of the Balkans, thus touching those countries of the East that are so dear to Frau Merkel and that have a greater weight than us in the European chessboard precisely for the German-centric European Constitution. So let's settle down. We want to be much more incisive at European level in order to bring the demands of the whole Mediterranean area; because only when the Eastern countries move, putting in difficulty the Merkel and all the balances of the countries of that area, does Europe make itself felt. We are looking for a new rebirth and a new collaboration between the Mediterranean countries. Among other things, the issue was dealt with in the 14th Commission and a resolution voted unanimously. This is our first point: the real overcoming of the Dublin regulation. In fact, despite what you have said, the Dublin Regulation is still in force, no one has passed it; and it is not surpassed by quotas, because in this case too, the procedure for the analysis of asylum applications is always the responsibility of the country of first reception. We, on the other hand, want a European system for examining asylum applications. As regards the decision of the Justice and Home Affairs Council, which last 22 September adopted by a large majority the decision to introduce temporary measures in the field of international protection, with the famous quotas, I note that it is a naturally acceptable measure, but totally inadequate. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, 19 Eritreans are nothing. This summer I was in the center of Baobab and in Rome Tiburtina to see how many Eritreans there are in those places; these measures are not enough, because those men are subjected to a human trafficking that we, we Italians (not us, of course, but you, more than anything else: we, for the moment, are innocent and with clean hands). We would like to have a comment on how he is dealing with this organized underworld, which still persists in our territory and manages immigrants by making more money than with drugs. We therefore call for external action, but we also want a strong position on internal action. How do you intend to stop this human trafficking on which you have all profited? The third point of the European Council is the famous more for more; it means that we are going to help the development of the countries from which migrants come who have no right to asylum and, by helping them, we are being helped in return. It's okay, but the problem is internal: if we take 18 months to examine these people's application for asylum (so that we can make it better), it's clear that the more for more cannot work. So if you do not reform the internal asylum application system, the more for more will be absolutely inefficient. How do you want to reform this system? We have proposals: we have asked to strengthen the territorial centres in which asylum applications are examined. There is a bill of the 5 Star Movement, deposited in 1st Commission (and I invite Senator Finocchiaro to immediately question it), written across the board: it comes from the school of legislation ISLE, passed through the blog and is, therefore, a wonderful example of participatory democracy, to which all your assistants participated. If you do not want to discuss it because it is of the 5 Star Movement, sign it yourself: we do not care, as long as this problem resolves. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I therefore call on the Commission to immediately schedule a draft law reforming the right of asylum, strengthen the territorial commissions and significantly shorten the time that an asylant is waiting for to see his or her procedure accepted and possibly to be repatriated; if it is not, he or she will be granted all the guarantees of an asylant. We have also made a proposal, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: if you listen to me, I will make proposals because we want to be proactive. We have proposed that 15,000 young people should be educated to examine asylum applications and put into territorial centres: this would solve youth unemployment on the one hand, and, on the other, we would form people to the practice of reception, which must be strengthened, however, because the committees currently work at low speeds. The reference to investments in these countries makes me a little 'afraid, as I am afraid that Senator Casini names Descalzi: let's remember that ENI does many good things, but indirectly finances the Libyan factions through the Libyan National Bank. We Italian State, therefore, indirectly finance ISIS. We don't do hypocrisies, say we have to fight ISIS, and then we go and invest by giving the money to the Libyan factions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This too would require meditation and self-criticism. I say this with regard to the issue of immigration, on which the Government knows very well that, beyond the facecies of SEL senators, it can count on our active cooperation. Therefore, the three points that we propose to the Government to consider positively - and I think that at this point they will not be able to refuse because they are very acceptable - are to strengthen its action in European fora in order to have a common asylum system, to support the possibility that refugees can apply for asylum in their countries of origin (i.e. the famous humanitarian corridors) and finally the system of binding (and not optional) quotas while overcoming the Dublin Regulation. Let us remember that quotas do not constitute an overrun of the Dublin Regulation. You have partly glissed on the document of the five Presidents. We have also examined it. It is currently in the 14th Commission. It is the famous document of the four Presidents, which has now become of the five Presidents, because - goodness to them - they have included the President of the European Parliament, the only elected body, who was perhaps the only one to be present in this text. It is a document that leaves us a little perplexed, because in fact it asks the member countries to further surrender sovereignty in a multistep which first involves an economic and monetary union and then as the last step, a political union. The problem is that we are building Europe and losing sovereignty with a wrong priority: if we have to give up sovereignty, we have to do it mainly for a political union and then in the alternative, perhaps if we create a Europe like that of the dream of the founding fathers who, with the famous Crocodile Club, had dreamt of a Europe that is not this but is different, then perhaps we can proceed to a monetary union. As for reforms, they are beautiful when they are right. You have become overwhelmed by anxiety and a paradoxism of reforms. It's kind of like when that comedian says the answer's inside you, but it's wrong. The reforms you are making are not what Europe is asking of us. Europe is calling for serious labour reform, not fake permanent contracts when we know very well that they are not. We are asking for a reform of small and medium-sized enterprises, a revival of the economy. We are asking you for citizenship income, the only instrument that can really boost consumption, but you are bringing us reforms that go against them. If you want a more democratic Europe and it answers us with a more oligarchical formula, the only solution is to increase democratic spaces, but you are narrowing them down. So in words you say you want a Europe of peoples, a Europe of democracy, but in fact you are obeying the Europe of banks and the Europe that wants to erase democracy. What we are asking of you at the fourth point in the resolution is therefore to analyse in a coherent way the document of the five Presidents. The last point concerns the question of Cameron asking the British if they want to leave the European Union. In our motion for a resolution we call for the Treaties to be reviewed so that there is the possibility of opting out of the single currency, i.e. the eurozone, or the European Union, and for the citizens to be called upon to speak (this happened only in 1989). We need to know what the Italians think of this Europe and only they have the right to decide what Europe they want. Our vote will abstain on all the motions for resolutions, not because there are no acceptable points, but because there are some that we cannot accept, such as linking autocratic constitutional reform to a democratic Europe. We will of course vote in favour of our motion for a resolution and ask the Government to accept at least the three points on immigration, which are exactly the same as those on the majority motion for a resolution, also to give a sign of cooperation between all political forces. We also want a further sign with the timetable for the draft law in the first Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u220	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u222	MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I was particularly impressed by your speech: you say that political decisions must not be triggered by emotions. I agree. It's just that this philosophy that you set out clearly then, as often happens to you, doesn't put it into practice. She is a great affabulator and often touches the sensitive cords of the soul, evoking emotions, stirring dreams. So often to understand his thought it is necessary to give a dreamlike reading of what he says. But the border that divides dreams from nightmares is a thin red line and it takes very little to cross it. You imagine a world, but you realize that you live in another one. And the endless resources of rhetoric, of which you abound, unfortunately do not change reality. You said that with the extraordinary European Council in April 2015, in the wake of the emotion of the death of 700 people, the European Union realizes that the problem of immigration can only be tackled with a strategic vision, that the Italian Government had understood it and that, in fact, the Dublin Agreement is over and, in this context, it exalts precisely the vision of the Italian Government. I'm sorry, but I'm of the opposite opinion. In her tale, in her narration - to use an expression that she likes - individual the limits of our weakness: the immigration emergency is not born this spring, but explodes in dramatic terms with the Syrian and Libyan crises. The problem existed, indeed, but the end of the Gaddafi regime - just look at the numbers - has transformed the physiological immigration of the poor who hope for a better future in an exodus determined by fear and terror. Well, our country, which is on the verge of drama, has failed neither with politics nor with striking gestures to draw Europe's attention to the problem. And the fact that the European Union has moved little, because little is involved, just because it is affected by the emotions of so many dramas, demonstrates the ineffectiveness of Italian action. The fact that the European Union does not exist at international level adds to the Italian foreign policy which can only be described with one adjective: inertial. We're still. Moreover, when you say that it is wrong for those who wake up in the morning to bomb in Syria, but it is also wrong for those who exclude the total procurement of the Syrian issue to Russia and its allies, in fact, stands in the middle. That is, it indicates a singular path: we must stand still, inert, for fear of error. But those who take no risk have no right to be heard. So you can meet Hollande in Modena and have dinner at Unity Festival, but you are not invited to the European Trilateral on Syria (I wouldn't have talked about it if you didn't bring the matter up in the House today). There, there were only France, Germany and England and Mogherini. And don't be mad at Mogherini if European partners only use us for catering. It is the result of an Italian foreign policy that is not there. Yeah, to count you have to move, you have to be there. You have to risk it. You see, I don't claim Craxi's courage from you to Sigonella. Nor that of Berlusconi who brought Bush and Putin to Pratica di Mare. But a foreign policy does not end with a trip to Moscow. If anything - to use the analysis of another former President who is very close to you, Romano Prodi - you have to have the courage to tell a raw truth: in Syria to beat the caliphate for the moment you have to rely on Russia and the soldiers of Assad. Foreign policy, if you remember, although it cannot be liked, is often a matter of priority. It is not exhausted, precisely, neither with goodness, nor with emotion, but with realism. There is a need to create a coalition that includes Europe, the United States, Russia, China and moderate Arab countries, if we want to intervene in that area of the world, so destabilized as to cause everyone, even the Pope, to worry. Take Libya. I am happy with the commendable humanitarian commitment of our soldiers, but that is certainly not the solution to the problem. That's a palliative, an aspirin. The real problem is that we must give back a state, an order to that country. And on this issue too, his approach is unique. You say: let's not repeat the mistake made in Libya in 2011. Well, I'd go and see what happened then. I heard in this House a few months ago a somewhat imaginative and biased reconstruction. I just shut up so I wouldn't get into any controversy. But apart from that - I spell out the words - the problem is not to repeat the error, but to remedy it. If we fail to solve the problem with today's times, cancer will spread, metastases will multiply, as you yourself say, from Afghanistan to Nigeria, from Kenya to Libya. And cancer must be eradicated with caution but also with determination. And never as on this front Italy has to do its part. Otherwise, as we see in Libya, a German UN envoy will succeed a Spanish envoy. One slap after another. And we will be unarmed actors, protagonists of paradoxical statistics. I have read a surreal one about the European Union's fight against the scafists: 38 million euros have been spent and 16 scafists have been arrested. In other words, every scafist arrested cost us €2.4 million. I hope that's not true. Same speech on the European Union. I agree with you. Europe has made a mistake in its anti-crisis strategy. To get out of the crisis we adopted four years after the policies successfully chosen by the United States four years earlier: we chose rigour, without accompanying it with development and growth, and we fixed the error only thanks to the commitment and courage of Draghi to the European Central Bank. But we paid for this delay. The road that divides Rome from Brussels is full of failures of companies and suicides of Italian entrepreneurs. In order to get out of the crisis, the European Union has made the policy that only a Member State, perhaps the strongest, namely Germany, was able to make use of. We have, in fact, also paid for the crisis in Germany. If you have time, read the proceedings of the trial to the rating agencies that are taking place in Trani: maybe you won't repeat the mistakes that most of the political class in this country made then. But while this reading of the facts is becoming a historical reality, she still repeats to me an analysis that echoes phrases of the type "we have to pass the exams". His reasoning is still imbued with pro-European rhetoric: one who has nothing against Europe says so. The truth is that Europe is still governed by national selfishness. And, never before, in order not to make Italians hate Europe - as happened yesterday in France and tomorrow in England - the Italian Government in Brussels must do first and foremost the interests of its own country. He must have the courage to make his voice heard, to say of the "no"s. Nor can he say that we are doing the reform of our Constitution to make us listen in Europe. This is absurd, not to say worse. Please don't say it: you don't change a Constitutional Charter with a Parliament delegitized by the Council; with a constituent majority that to date, just read the polls, it represents just over 30% of Italians and with all the opposition that leaves the House, that is, in other words, dividing the country just to please Europe. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Centinario]] To adopt such a logic on the rules is absurd. If, then, you tell me that we are changing the Constitution to be heard, to have 8 billion flexibility on the budget from the European Union, we are really in disrepute. We are faced with an aberrant alibi. The Constitution, the fundamental Charter of a people, is priceless. Let's leave the dreams and get to the important issues. If we are to give substance to this debate, we must pursue a number of objectives. First of all, we must take full note of the end of the Dublin Treaty and, consequently, of the need to think of new rules that do not penalise the countries of first arrival, such as Italy. Secondly, we must open refugee camps directly on Libyan soil to prevent the Mediterranean from continuing to be a sea of death. Third point. We must urge the UN Security Council to launch the third phase of EUNAVFOR Med, which allows us to set foot on Libyan soil to fight the merchants of death. We must then consider the possibility of supporting diplomatic efforts, including military efforts to stop the Daesh. Finally, we must ensure that the five Presidents' document does not become a further loss of national sovereignty. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u223	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u225	MARAN (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the work of the European Council will be devoted to the presentation of the work carried out on the report by the five Presidents on the completion of Economic and Monetary Union with a view to a wider debate at the December European Council, the process under way in view of the British referendum and, above all, the issue of migration. In this respect, the Summit will examine the implementation of the guidelines set out at the meeting on 23 September, agree further guidelines on priority actions within the European Agenda for Migration and take stock of the outcome of the Eastern Mediterranean-Western Balkans Conference on 8 October and preparations for the Valletta Summit on 11 and 12 November. The summit will conclude with an appointment dedicated to Turkey and Syria and Germany has asked to add the issue of Ukraine to the agenda. Here, the mere reading of the summit agenda says very long about the season that we are living, about the knots that are now coming to the comb and about how intricate the skein to unravel is. As a matter of fact, it also says a lot about the cheerful unawareness of some of our colleagues. We must recognise that progress is not lacking: on the migration front, as you have rightly pointed out, the facts of recent months are encouraging convergence on our positions not only of the European Commission, but also of our main partners, beginning with Germany and France, both on the internal front - on overcoming the Dublin system, which must remain our short-term objective - and on the external one, which is longer-term. The external dimension of migration and refugees is becoming increasingly important in the perception of the Union and of individual Member States. The Communication on the role of the Union's external action, adopted by the Commission on 9 September, recalls that political and diplomatic efforts are needed to address the challenges posed by the migration and refugee crisis, starting with the resolution of crises in Syria and Iraq. In its communication of 23 September, the Commission referred significantly to a diplomatic offensive, based on four main elements: High-level conference on the Eastern Mediterranean-Western Balkans route, which took place on 8 October; The Valletta Conference, scheduled for 11 and 12 November, as I said; greater operational cooperation with third countries; greater support for humanitarian organisations and agencies. The Eastern Mediterranean and Western Balkans Route Conference was a constructive opportunity for coordination between the Union and all countries affected by the refugee crisis. We must now ensure that the agreed actions are actually carried out, particularly with regard to cooperation with Turkey, whose role is central. The success of the Valletta Conference must be a priority for us: we must move as soon as possible to the adoption of concrete development projects, including joint initiatives by several Member States, aimed primarily at mitigating the root causes of immigration. At the Valletta Summit, the agreement establishing an emergency trust fund for Africa could be signed, which would finance projects for economic development, food security, management of migratory flows and governance in the three regions of Sahel, Horn of Africa and North Africa. At the Malta Summit, the Union will also have to raise without hesitation the issue of return, which is a key component of a real internal partnership and Italy must work to establish a positive conditionality between these issues and those of promoting regular migration and mobility. The long march of Syrian and Iraqi refugees towards Europe and the trafficking of human beings from the coasts of Tripoli on Lampedusa and Sicily also reminds us - as you have also raised - that Italy's national security, including energy, cannot be guaranteed without a geopolitical vision that has its natural fulcrum in the Mediterranean. Moreover, that the national interest of our country is the southern shore has been clearly written in the White Paper for defence and has also been confirmed by recent gas discoveries off Egypt, which impose on Italy a role of strategic partner for Cairo, both from the political point of view and of common security. The Euro-Mediterranean region, we wrote, represents the main area of national intervention and must achieve a high degree of stability and democratic development in countries that affect the Mediterranean, because it is a priority objective for our country. What is happening, it must be acknowledged, and the agenda of the Council's work confirms the validity and correctness of this strategy and the need to implement it to the full. The summit agenda tomorrow, however, also tells us that the international system built after the Second World War is now unrecognizable, as you said this morning. With the growth of China and India and the growing influence of non-state actors (meaning business, religious organizations, tribes, criminal networks), with the globalised economy, the transfer of wealth to unprecedented economic power in modern history as to the size, speed and direction that is underway from the West to the East of the world is emerging a multipolar global system that is more unstable than those that preceded it. And I find the American administration's foreign policy polemics exhausting, because it doesn't matter whether we like the United States' foreign policy or not. What really matters is that their financial capacity to pursue it is falling. The U.S. government is also struggling with the ageing population, with a huge debt, health care, pensions. It is on the way to becoming - as has already been said - a domestic insurance company, with a secondary occupation, foreign policy. Within twenty years the service to the public debt - just to give an example - will exceed the entire budget of the Defense and the result will be a leadership with very limited means, even after Obama. And the shortage will bring benefits to the United States and also to other countries, because an era of scarce resources will make the country less inclined to make mistakes, from the expansion of NATO too far east to the disastrous occupation of Iraq, not to mention that the non-conventional oil stations, the shale gas, will lead to a decisive change in the global energy markets. And a centralized policy on reducing national dependence on foreign oil can do, for America and for today's world, what the Soviet Union did in the twentieth century. But less foreign policy in the United States also implies a loss for us, for non-Americans. When the world complains that someone has to do something, the most immediate and disinterested reaction can no longer come from Washington, and other policies of international interest, such as guaranteeing global access to oil, can suffer from it. Obviously there will be limits to the withdrawal from the world of America, but the USA has acted for years like the de facto government of the world and, if they now behave like any other country, the world will have less government. I say this because in this context we have to ask a couple of questions to Europe. A couple of questions we must ask ourselves, because at this stage the arrival of the European superpower is likely to coincide with that of Godot. If the world is going towards the formation of regional blocs that will play the old role of States in the Westfalian system; if continental structures such as America and China, and perhaps India and Brazil, have already reached the critical mass, the question is very simple and even brutal: does Europe want to try or not? Does Europe want to try to face its transition to the rank of regional unity? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Do you want to try to finally achieve a meaningful unity? And would it not be time for Europeans to stop evading the problem of defence policy, as Obama repeated to boredom? And how can we fail to see that the strategic importance of a transatlantic agreement for the liberalisation of trade and investment between the two most advanced economic areas of the planet goes far beyond its economic value? And what should come forward is precisely the awareness, in the absence of a democratic nation strong enough to be a point of reference, of countering the emerging powers of authoritarian capitalism, a new centre capable of exercising an orderly function can only emerge from the global alliance between democracies, cemented by a common market. See that the definition of a common approach is the strongest guarantee for the European Union and the United States to assert their priorities over Moscow, whose capacity for initiative depends more on the divisions of the Western camp than on the use it is able to make of its own resources. And now I say a very quick thing about Syria. In this context something can certainly be done if you take note of what is really happening. It is our interest to eliminate and contain the two threats that are becoming metastases: ISIS, on the one hand, and the tragedy of refugees, on the other, which risks destabilising not only the European Union but also Jordan and Lebanon, in particular. But there is no reason to believe those who say and think simplistically that "miring and pointing fire" can work in Syria better than it did in Iraq and Libya. I read of people who are unable to secure the outskirts of Baltimore or the outskirts of Paris and think they know how to save the center of Aleppo from the sky. This is obviously nonsense. And how can we fail to see that Putin's intervention in defense of Assad, who remains a war criminal, pro-Iranian, alawita, Shiite, will eventually alienate the entire Sunni Muslim world, the vast majority also in Syria. And even if Putin succeeds in defeating ISIS, the only way to keep the situation under control is to replace ISIS with moderate Sunni. But who do you want to be with Russia, if Putin is seen as the defender of those who killed more Sunni than anyone else in the world. Putin will also need American and our help to get away with it and come up with a political solution for Syria. Colleagues, the anchoring to alliance systems with stronger actors able to fill our age-old international security deficit was for Italy the answer to a historical condition of vulnerability. Today, however, the United States no longer has the scale, the strength and even the internal consensus to act as Atlas, who carried the world on his shoulders. The United States is no longer able to guarantee the function of economic locomotive and guarantor of military security. An even more worrying cohesion crisis continues to weigh on the architrave of Italian foreign policy, which is represented by Europe and the European Union. Nowhere is it written that our destiny is of decadence and less regional power, but our future is necessarily linked to that of our European partners. It is precisely from the awareness of this common destiny that the process of European integration must be restarted more decisively, which will force us to do more to relaunch the unification process. The time has ended when we could say safe under the umbrella of NATO and then protest against the missiles in Comiso. Today there is a need for willingness to take risks and invest. Italy has the means, the culture and the potential to do so and has recovered - you are right, President - the solidity in order to do so. We are trying to change Italy and from this effort comes our renewed credibility. That is why we can try to change Europe, its policies (not just governance) and its institutions. In December we will be discussing the so-called report by the five Presidents, but our European institutional system is obviously not the lightning rod to discharge the wrong political decisions and responsibilities. We who voted on the reform of the Constitution yesterday know that the rules can influence the forms and ways of politics. The weakness of its institutions is not alien to Europe's difficulties: it is not the Union that kills children, but its ability to save them is paralyzed by states that refuse to coordinate their choices on the migratory emergency. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is not the Union that raises the walls and puts barbed wire at the borders, but some states, but the Union cannot prevent it because the powers of intervention which the States as a whole have conferred on it do not allow it. If we really believe in the common future of Europeans, we must not hesitate to call into question the Europe we have to build a better Europe. The Group of the Democratic Party will support the Government's efforts - even more so, Italy's efforts - as they once said, without whether or not. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u226	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I call on the Secretary of State to speak to the Presidency of the Council, Mr Gozi, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u227	Mr President, on motion for a resolution No 1, signed by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, the opinion is in favour, while on motions for resolutions No 2, first signed by Senator Centinario, No 3, first signed by Senator De Petris, and No 4, first signed by Senator Fattori, the opinion is against. On motion for a resolution No 5, which was first signed by Senator Barani, the opinion is against the premises and in favour of the proposal if reworded as follows. The first point: to take the necessary steps within the European Council to fully implement the recent agreement on asylum and immigration with the aim of eliminating the words "an attitude" to "introduce" into the European Council; the second point: "to continue to support the political process under the auspices of the UN with a view to the establishment of a Government of National Unity that can restart the reconstruction and stabilisation of Libya"; the third point is in favour; the fourth point: "to reiterate the proposal to proceed with the reduction"; the fifth point is opposed while in favour of points 6 and 7; point 8 of the mechanism: "to continue work to avoid"; point 9: "to continue the dialogue with the United States and Russia within the UN to give rise to a common front"; and point 10 is asked to delete the words from "in support" to "NATO." Finally, I am against the motion for a resolution. 6, first signatory Senator Paolo Romani, and 7, first signatory Senator Bonfrisco.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u228	Senator Barani, do you accept the rewordings proposed by the Government on motion for a resolution No. 5? Mr Barani (AL-A). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u229	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u230	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u231	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u232	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 1 (text 2), tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 2, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4, tabled by Senator Fattori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 5 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u233	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u234	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u235	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, during the vote on motion for a resolution No 4 I mistakenly voted for one abstention when I wanted to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u236	We take note of that, Senator Giarrusso. I call on Senator Romani Paolo and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 6 by a simultaneous ballot. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 7 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u237	Let us resume the discussion of bill 2054. [[The Senators of the M5S Group show a manifesto depicting a credit card "Boccadutri card," registered to Matteo Renzi and numerous leaflets of the same tenor.]] I beg the Assistants and Senators to intervene to remove the cartels. I invite the Parent Company, Senator Castaldi, to recover the order and respect of the rules by its Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u238	Mr President, in the first decades of the Republic, there had never been funding for parties. It was introduced after the oil scandal in 1974, when it was discovered that the government parties were on the payroll of the oilers. The Republican party then demanded public funding. 18.04 (continued ENDRIZZI). The theorem was, if we give the parties the money, we don't steal it. Twenty years later, Tangentopoli showed the Italians that that was a pious illusion, or perhaps a clever lie. In 1993 the Italians therefore expressed themselves clearly and unequivocally in a referendum: via public funding to the parties. The answer, of course, was immediate: change the name from funding to electoral reimbursement. The result: after about twenty more years we in Italy have a level of corruption that is equal to that of the rest of Europe put together. Cases of corruption pave the news every day. They are interspersed only by scandals by distraction of funds or by those for expenditures cheerful with public resources. The Italian champion of this sad behavior, the President-in-Office of the Council, whose political rise we have paid millions of dollars between elephant press offices, representation expenses, to get to the use of the state plane to go and see tennis in America, has just come out. In this smelly mixer we have seen everything: illegal expenses and formally legal but scandalous expenses; green panties, allegorical dinners of politicians with pig masks, African diamonds, villas, cars, even erotic toys put into account. The sense of self-sufficiency of the caste is now pervasive. That's why mayor Marino's receipts are serious. When he declares himself in good faith I believe him, but this shows that he has lost consciousness of the value of his actions. The ethical landslide has involved all the parties and all their members: we will soon have proof of this in the vote on this reference. That is why nobody raised the issue in Rome; none, except the 5 Star Movement, which is born precisely from the conscience of the outraged citizens. But let's come to this bill. Almost twenty years after the law on electoral refunds, under the lighthouse pointed at by scandals, worried by the birth of the 5 Star Movement, the parties have again turned the cards on the table. The prosecutor of the Court of Auditors of Lazio had declared electoral refunds illegitimate and unconstitutional because they were too far from the amounts declared. Since 1994, the parties have pocketed 2.5 billion, against documented expenditure of not even 800 million. It is clear, therefore, that this was still a matter of funding. The solution then was elementary: taking away the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors - so he learns! - and to set up a guarantee committee which, however, has never had the necessary staff from the Government and therefore today we arrive at a sanatorium. When we talk about parties, the said "made the law," found the deception is no longer true: it is true the said "made the deception," found the law "." For the future, this measure promises a minimum increase in the Commission's organic budget and in return claims retroactive sanatorium: the parties will be able to collect EUR 35 million without having to prove anything. It's the usual game: citizens are offered a ice cream with two balls, chocolate and mud, and if they complain they are told: But you don't like chocolate? It infers, President, with this measure, a massacre on the sense of justice, on the confidence of the citizen on the certainty of the law, as you are doing on the pardon for the capitals held by the mafias abroad. It is a stroke on the principle of equality expressed by Article 3 of the Constitution. Go explain it to Italian companies, artisans, VAT matches: when your accountant is wrong, always answer you, instead the parties when they are wrong dump the blame on the usual Belsito, Fiorito, Trota, Lusi; these take the blame, they show the citizens of the brooms to clean up and the system continues. I know that you will offend these words, as if you were doubting your honesty, but go and say this to the citizens, to the Italian companies on their knees: when they apply to you the field studies, the burden of proof is yours, you have to prove that you did not take that money, but how do you prove something that you have not done? Instead, to the parties, when they have to show the evidence, well for them everything passes to cavalry. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u239	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per group may speak in the debate on the question for no more than ten minutes. Since no one intends to intervene, I put to the vote the question referred by Senator Crimi and other senators for a preliminary ruling.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u240	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u241	We are in the process of voting, Senator Endrizzi: what do you want to ask? I shall cancel the vote, which is by way of a show of hands. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u242	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, we are asking for a quorum check. [[Protests from the PD Group]] Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u243	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of discussion of draft law No 2054
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u244	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u245	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u246	CHITI (PD). Mr President, I too, in the last parliamentary term, played its role and did not belong to the majority. I think that anyone who presides should enforce the Rules of Procedure, in any case, and you did not enforce it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u247	President Chiti, let's move on. I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Crimi and other senators. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u248	Mr President, we could talk here for hours, because we could all strike from right to left. The only ones who haven't taken the money and who still don't want to enter this share of public money are us from the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] At the Presidency Council, there was a panic to seek out the escapism in order to be able to provide public funding to the parties: fortunately, the Council said no, but you found the volunteer to make the legging, which will have put 40 days, between the House and the Senate, to be approved. Tonight you take home millions of euros of citizens: in 40 days! So much for the perfect bicameralism you've demolished! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You're shameful! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u249	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I inform you that the Presidency - and I am distributing it - has received the opinions of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u250	Mr President, I am very surprised. It was too fast, really painless: it has never happened so far to see a law passing so quickly. There was no intervention when examining the question referred for a preliminary ruling, not even to defend it: none. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There was no intervention in general discussion. You don't even have the nerve to put your face on it. You are afraid of having to go tell the citizens what you are doing: you are doing a sanatorium on the money that concerns your parties and you are doing it directly. Only you, in fact, can write the law to make you sanatoria. Ask small and medium-sized enterprises. No one has spoken, not even in general discussion and, now, in the process of explaining the amendments. [[Comments of Senators Nugnes and Paglini]] Mr President, the amendments are entirely ours. There is not one of others (there are only two of Senator Bruni, on whom I think someone will probably express an invitation to withdraw). Nothing. This law will pass quickly. We have tabled a series of amendments which have the aim that I will immediately explain: to change the allocation of the sums not allocated to the financing of parties. You know and we all know, it is news of these days: it was published, a few weeks ago, the list of donations through the 2 per thousand and the parties people did not want to give what had been allocated, but gave very little (and it is public money). Too bad voluntary associations wait three years to know how much money 5 per thousand will come to them and four years to have them; to you they not only give the accounts, but also the money, immediately. We have asked for the amounts of 2 per thousand that remain for other purposes; we have listed all possible purposes, from small and medium-sized enterprises, guarantee funds, family policies, youth policies, all labour policies: you said no, of course that money is not touched, must be addressed to parties, in one way or another. We tried to change the composition of the Commission to make it actually able to work and you said no. Then do not come and say that we are the ones of the no: here there are 200 no, 200 alternative proposals that you are saying no, exclusively because you need that money, because otherwise the parties are no longer there. The parties exist only because there are electoral refunds. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And they are fake electoral refunds, because refunds should only be in the face of what you spend: not even that you can prove, because not even the supporting pieces you have presented. They are no longer reimbursements, therefore: it is public funding, the one that was abolished in the referendum. This is the situation we are in today: to have to approve quickly and furiously the bill under consideration. It is Wednesday afternoon and tomorrow you will all be home, because tomorrow morning there is a free commitment that is not linked to voting, so we are all ready to leave quickly, quickly and fury [[Protests from the PD Group.]] If you had the courage, we could approve it in an hour this morning. Why did you have the session suspended to get to this afternoon? Why don't you tell the citizens? You wanted to protect the President-in-Office of the Council, Renzi, because he would have come to this House after you had approved the law on the financing of parties and it would have been a little difficult to speak after you had allocated EUR 35 million (two years) without any control, because the guarantee committee could not work, since you did not put it under the conditions to do so. At the time you introduced that law only to put your hand on your conscience and to be able to say to the citizens: did you see how good we are? We set up the committee, and now we can't take the money like this, we have to report it, bring the evidence. Too bad that after two years the deception comes and after the deception comes the sanatoria law and in two years you will make another, because you will not be able to continue to hold at this pace and justify all the money that comes to you. Today, in fact, making a party is an investment. In 2010 I was a candidate President of the 5 Star Movement in Lombardy, so I can bring you all the budgets that we have drawn up: we spent 14,000 euros, you know when they gave us refunds? They gave us 1.4 million euros! Where do you find an investment like this? Only in parties! We gave up, we wrote it on a piece of paper, and we said we didn't want that money. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is the reality. The money you don't find, the time to approve the laws you don't find; the bill on civil unions you postponed it to January while you could examine it today and tomorrow, instead the time to bring the money to the parties you find. That is what you will have to say to the citizens and you will have to do so, because sooner or later you will all realize it in front of the citizens as you walk around. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] People, in fact, understand that. Little by little, he understood it and he's starting to wake up. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u251	Mr President, I have tabled a few amendments, but I would like to explain Amendment No 1.92, which proposes to add the words:'remains without prejudice to the application of Article 331 of the Code of Criminal Procedure'. In other words, it is required that when there is a crime it be transmitted to the prosecutor and that there be arrests.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u252	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u253	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u254	Mr President, the Government's opinion is also against it. However, I would like a clarification from Senator Bottici and I would like to know what Amendment No 1.92 adds, what its regulatory scope is.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u255	Please, Senator Bottici.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u256	The amendment proposes that, in any case, the obligation to transmit it to the judicial authority should be imposed, because the committee does not have this obligation; therefore, if it finds a crime, it is asked to send it to the judicial authority.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u257	Mr President, since the Code of Criminal Procedure remains in force, the opinion remains opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u258	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u259	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u260	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, the members of the M5S Group are calling for all the amendments tabled by the Group's senators to be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u261	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. Mr President, the applicants for the electronic vote of the PD and also of Forza Italia have disappeared. It's just me. And I'm going to ask you for an electronic vote for every single amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u262	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u263	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u264	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u265	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u266	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u267	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u268	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I wanted to say that during the previous vote I wanted to abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u269	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u270	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u271	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u272	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for a separate vote on Amendment 1.2: to vote on the first part until the words 'are abolished' and then on the remaining part.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u273	I put to the vote the request for a separate vote on Amendment 1.2. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u274	Mr President, since several senators were still on the move during the voting phase, we are asking for a counterproof.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u275	The response of the vote was clear, Senator Santangelo, but let's do the counterproof first. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u276	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u277	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u278	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, this amendment gives the Court of Auditors the power to ensure that the sums received by the parties are adequate. No Commission can replace the functioning of the judiciary, which had already effectively touched on the hotspots of the issue, without there being an increase in expenditure. Now we should stop and go back.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u279	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators, until the words "are deleted." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.4 and amendment 1.5 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u280	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u281	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u282	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I wanted to point out that during the previous vote I wanted to vote against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u283	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u284	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u285	Mr Valentini (PD). Mr President, I too wanted to vote against in the previous vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u286	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u287	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u288	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u289	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I would also like to vote in favour of this amendment because the Court of Auditors has jurisdiction, also in light of the judgment of the Lazio Court on the Lusi case. I ask you, looking at your face: are you really convinced that this will bring you benefits? Get your citizens' money without any control? I ask, but happy with you! You didn't control the expenses and revenues of 2013 and 2014! The citizens ask for any receipt, in a little bit even that of toilet paper they buy for the school. I don't know! But really look at what's going on outside. There have been immense robberies in the parties, in regional and parliamentary groups. And you insist. Boh! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u290	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.9. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 1.12 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u291	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u292	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u293	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I do not understand how the 5th Commission could have rejected the amendment. I therefore call for it to be put to the vote because, with this amendment, we are proposing to allocate the sums, which the parties cannot legally collect at the moment, to rehabilitation and to the care of the victims of gambling. Today, the whole House voted in favour of the urgency of the law for the abolition of gambling advertising. Well, now we have to act on two fronts. We need to worry not only about lowering the demand for gambling, avoiding new demand, but also about caring for the people who are already victims of it today, and there are hundreds of thousands. If we count their families, we reach millions of people who suffer. I therefore insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u294	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12 (text 2), tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.13 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.13 (text 2), tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 1.14 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14 (text 2), tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.15 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.15 (text 2), tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.16 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.16 (text 2), tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment No 1.17 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.17 (text 2), tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 1.18 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.18 (text 2), tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment No 1.19 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.19 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u295	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u296	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u297	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak in an explanation of vote in order to state the alternative aims we are thinking of for the funds allocated and unlawfully claimed by the parties, namely health research.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u298	Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.19 (text 2), tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 1.20 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. WOMAN (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.20 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u299	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u300	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u301	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, speaking in an explanation of vote, I would like to clarify why we have tabled this amendment. It is soon said: we always say that NCD is the crutch of the PD and we show it to you; I show it to you with these words. What happened? From October 2014 to February 2015, the Commission remained essentially empty, but this was not a problem. NCD, thanks to paragraph 12-c of the decree milleproroghe, can however fall into the notrero of the parties entitled to the distribution of 2015, according to the procedures and the requirements of law. It should be recalled that NCD did not have the requirements for access to financing, so much so that it was not included in the register of parties referred to in Article 4 of Decree-Law No 149 of 2013. They did, however, just in time to correct its statute: finally, in October, the possibility arrived to make an effective assessment in the Commissions of the request by NCD. What did that mean? It allowed that party, which had no right to do so, to return to that benefit. So, why do you want everything to go well anyway and move on? President Gasparri himself is also speeding up voting operations at the moment. You are in such a hurry: why are you not in the same hurry when it comes to talking about measures affecting citizens? It is today the meeting we have created to talk about the agricultural IMU. Continue to launch slogans, tweets and observations: your President Renzi said everything today, mixing so many things, but in reality you don't give any certainty. What do you want to do with this country, besides stealing the money of Italian citizens? [[Protests from the PD Group.]] What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u302	Senator, you must stick to the explanation of vote. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.20 (text 2), tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u303	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u304	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u305	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to say that I wanted to vote in favour of the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u306	We take note of that. We move on to Amendment 1.21 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CRIMI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.21 (text 2), tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 1,22 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CRIMI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.22 (text 2), tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 1.23 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BLUNDO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.23 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u307	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u308	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u309	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, here we are constantly refusing - and this has also happened with the previous rejected amendments - to allocate these funds to other areas, including areas such as employment and training. With Amendment 1.23 (text 2) I therefore call for these funds to be allocated to the continuation of the reconstruction of the city of L'Aquila, and in particular of the private building of those who do not yet see absolutely recognized their right to have rebuilt the property, deceived by the assignment of permanent temporary houses, which are instead manifesting all their problems. Mrs Pezzopane knows very well how important it is to devote additional funds to the reconstruction of L'Aquila and the other historical centers of the crater. I would like to know if, in your opinion, it is more important to secure electoral refunds for a policy that is not even respecting the will of the citizens, because we continue to make laws that do not respect what they really want, and they are showing it to you in every way. Well, I invite you to devote those funds to a just cause: the reconstruction of a capital city that has the right to be rebuilt.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u310	Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.23 (text 2), tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 1.24 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. GAETTI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.24 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u311	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u312	You have the right to do so. But keep in mind that the time is running out and, therefore, I turn to your ability to sum up.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u313	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I would simply like to say that the money that would not go to parties in recent years would be given to family policies. Here we talk a lot about families and the fact that our families are in difficulty, and I bring back a single figure: Italy is the country that has the greatest birthday in Europe. So few children are born that the difference between the dead and those born in 2014 is less than 100,000 people. In Italy, therefore, we need to train families and give them support, because only in this way can we increase the number of Italians, and therefore citizens, who are our future. Just look at the policies adopted in France and in the other countries of Europe that have raised the birth rate. On the other hand, we do not give our families a future, although this issue is very much felt here by the NCD Group and not only. Then we'll see how you vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u314	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u315	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u316	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, just to say that on Amendment 1.23 (text 2), for the reasons that Senator Blund has already explained, my vote was in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u317	The Presidency takes note of this. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.24 (text 2), tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.25 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. TAVERNA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.25 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u318	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u319	You have the right to do so, but take into account that the time is running out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u320	TAVERNA (M5S). President. - The debate is closed. All you have to do is take the money. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What do we have to do? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I was merely pointing out that the time is up and I am having explanations of vote made in spite of this. We're way past the times. TAVERNA (M5S). For once, I'm not mad at her. I know exactly what the actor of this whole situation is, of course. We can also find each other in agreement with you and I, and this is already a novelty in this Senate. Amendment 1.25 (text 2) talks about allocating money, which you will go to steal from Italian citizens [[Comments from the PD Group]] , the National Social Policy Fund.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u321	Senator Taverna, the term is improper.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u322	TAVERNA (M5S). It's a political consideration. If we are a group that renounces public funding... We're talking about dispensations regulated by a law. TAVERNA (M5S). ...and we demand that this be done, we consider it a theft, I repeat, a theft, and the Italian citizens have also decided that it is such. But you don't care about the referendums you've been asked to give up money for 20 years. So I call it stealing. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Theft, is that possible? Yeah, I call it stealing, and you decide what you want. Maybe I'll get a few sentences. They were inflicted five days for some facts, let alone me... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u323	Thank you, Senator Taverna.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u324	TAVERNA (M5S). But be quiet. What we are asking for with this amendment is that if they do not succeed... [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u325	Conclude, Senator Taverna. We're making statements beyond the deadline.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u326	TAVERNA (M5S). Colleagues are disturbing. President Grasso had said that he would be strict in preventing them from disturbing during the speeches; I ask not to be disturbed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It applies to everyone, even those who intervene. TAVERNA (M5S). If you could avoid stealing money that could be destined for something actually useful, such as social policies, we would begin to think differently and not to call you thieves, but benefactors. It's up to you. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u327	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u328	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u329	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to call on my colleague, who has spoken, to immediately withdraw the accusations of being thieves of public resources. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I would like to remind my colleague and all those who make the moralists a fool of themselves that the day will always come when the accounts will be made with their own demagogies. [[Live comments from Senators Airola, Donno and Taverna]] You're already doing it despite pulling out... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u330	Senator Buemi, you must address the presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u331	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u332	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u333	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. I beg your pardon... [[Senator Buemi's lively comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u334	Senator Buemi, make a contribution to the progress of the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u335	CASTALDI (M5S). Senator Buemi can of course express his thoughts by addressing you, but he cannot call us demagogues, that we have left the funds to the state. I repeat: to the state! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u336	Senator Castaldi, I gave you the floor as a group leader. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.25 (text 2), tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.26 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. . ENDRIZZI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). [[Senator Petrocelli points out that he wants to intervene]] Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.26 (text 2), tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). [[Senator Petrocelli's protests]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u337	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u338	I apologize if you wanted to speak on the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u339	[[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u340	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u341	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, thank you for your fantastic work management. If there is to be talk of theft on this measure, it is first of all an identity theft. This was a serious country that, when the voices were born electoral refund or refund to the parties, had foreseen the possibility of making politics clean and without big capitals. Then came Berlusconi, the mass stealing and the possibility of making politics without money we re-launched it when we entered these institutions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With these amendments we are asking for one simple thing: that we should not also be robbed of the memory and identity of a clean policy which existed in the post-war period, in this House and in the country, and which has then been wiped out for decades of bad government, corruption, stealing and other things that I cannot say because otherwise someone presents a complaint against me in the prosecutor's office. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u342	I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.8. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.27. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,28, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.29, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.30. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on amendment 1.31. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.33. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 1.34 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CRIMI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.34 (text 2), tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.35, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.36. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,37, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,37, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.38.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u343	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u344	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u345	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, with this amendment we simply ask for more resources to be allocated to the Commission, otherwise we will be back to scratch again. Now, either we realize that the costs incurred for the control, that they are telephone interceptions, as we have seen in other cases, or that they are, as in this case, an accounting check on documents, are virtuous expenses, because they make more than their cost, or we will continue to perpetuate the idea that those who least spend better business do. We know that this is not the case, because we are in Italy and we are in the Italian Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u346	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u347	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u348	PUGLIA (M5S). In fact, Senator Taverna said "steal" and my colleagues rightly said: "no, we are not stealing." In fact, if I am the law, I make sure that the word "financing", which the citizens have told me they do not want, change it into "refunding." The word "steal" is replaced by the word "financing." PRESIDENT. - The debate is There must be disagreement over amendment 1,38, Senator Puglia. PUGLIA (M5S). At this point, if I do not want to check the Court of Auditors and so I want to make sure that this amendment does not go away, it is right, because those who have to do what they want, the citizens do not! Companies have to have who controls them, but parties don't! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u349	I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,38, which was tabled by Mr Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.39 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.40, which is identical to Amendment No 1.41.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u350	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u351	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u352	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, in these forty days the Commission has been very much blamed, saying that it had no staff and that therefore the Boccadutri bill was for the staff. Nothing's true. The parties did not submit any grounds for spending, so they slowed down the Commission's work, which consequently wasted time. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's at least tell the truth. Let's give him, then, more personal, but always. We do not make excuses: one unit is granted, then two, then still has no time and personal. We execute the laws and give them the staff. So, please, let's all vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applause from Senator Airola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u353	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.40, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 1,41, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1,42, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MORRA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,42, tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1,43, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CRIMI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,43, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1,44, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution... Senator Crimes, ask for the CRIMI vote (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,44, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.45.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u354	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u355	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u356	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, you are slowing down your work too much by asking if I insist on the vote. I'll tell him every time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're gonna signal it, then. I want to respect your possibility, but it's not that I can interpret. CRIMI (M5S). I'm saying this because it could go much faster by pretending nothing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You don't have to. CRIMI (M5S). It was to meet the demands of the majority party.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u357	Let's get this straight, then. I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,45. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.47. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,46, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,48, tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1.49, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.49, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.50, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. MORRA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.50, tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.51. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.52.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u358	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u359	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u360	CRIMI (M5S). I withdraw the amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u361	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u362	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u363	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, this amendment is really too important, so I keep it and I would ask you to put it to the vote. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u364	Yes, the whole group had signed it, according to previous statements. I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.52. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.53, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.54. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.55. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.56. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,57, tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,58, tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.59.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u365	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u366	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u367	BOTTICS (M5S). In this amendment we ask to add, in paragraph 1, letter a ), the words "tax" after the words "accounting control", i.e. that the persons involved in the audit are experts in accounting and tax control, also because you already take something that you said you had abolished, at least we check if you pay the taxes for good. So, even a tax check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u368	I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.59, which was tabled by Mr Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u369	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u370	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u371	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I realize that there is a certain need to make a quick move, so I would like to make a proposal: during the voting procedures instead of saying 'declared open' the vote could just say 'open' and instead of saying 'declared closed' the vote, it could only say 'closed'. Maybe he could also use the initials of the surnames of Senators Crimes and Endrizzi, so you could shorten it further.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u372	I will turn the proposal to the Rules of Procedure Board for the assessment of the case. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.60, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.61.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u373	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u374	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u375	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I am also speaking because a number of messages are coming from citizens who are asking us what is going on in this House and what we are voting on and, precisely with a view to transparency, to which you are not so accustomed, but to which we are accustomed, we intend to explain what is happening in this House today. [[Comments of Senator Zanoni.]] I would therefore like to make a brief summary, taking advantage of the explanation of vote on amendment 1.61, with which we would like to add, in paragraph 1 (a), after the words "accounting control" to the words "with particular reference to analytical control." It all begins on 20 February 2014, when the Chamber of Deputies approved the bill of conversion of the decree-law abolishing public funding to parties, i.e. Decree-Law No 149 of 2013, converted into Law No 13 of 2014. This decree-law provides that in 2014 the funds granted to parties will be cut by 20 percent, in 2015 by 50 percent and in 2016 by 75 percent. Since 2017 there will be nothing but through private donations and 2 per thousand. However, the same decree imposed that the sums granted to the various parties should be paid only after the green light of a Commission guaranteeing the statutes and for the transparency and control of the statements of political parties. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude, we're talking about times by way of derogation. WOMAN (M5S). A few more words. I am referring to analytical control. It has happened that the Commission itself, which was due to complete its work on 30 June, had to raise its hands, declaring that it was unable to carry out its task, thus putting at risk the possibility for parties, that is, you, to collect valuable resources. In essence, with this bill, parties will receive public funding money for 2013 and 2014 even if their budgets have not been monitored. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u376	I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.61. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.62, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u377	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u378	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u379	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I was unable to take part in the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that. I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.63. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.64. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,65, tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.66. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.67 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.68.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u380	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u381	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u382	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I make an explanation of vote on this amendment, but I am convinced that you will vote in favour, otherwise I do not know how you can explain the vote against the proposal that the additional units that the Commission makes use of under previous periods should not have been convicted, charged or investigated for crimes against public administration or the administration of justice. You are taking the electoral refunds that citizens have clearly stated that they do not want to attribute to you; you are going over the will of the people, as I have already told you; you continue to vote against every corrective minimum; I do not believe that you will now vote against this protection to even give electoral refunds through a Commission in which they are present condemned or accused for crimes against the public administration. Otherwise you will have really reached every limit.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u383	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u384	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u385	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, I want to be a dissenting statement from the Group, precisely because there is what is called dignity and also through respect for people. Right now you're taking us all cheerfully around. This thing that you are voting on, all with low eyes and all agree, harms my dignity and that of the Italian citizens. You're shameful! For this dissenting vote... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u386	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.68, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). Mr Paglini (M5S). He's taking my word off! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.69, tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. (The vote was followed). [[Comments of Senator Paglini]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Mr Paglini (M5S). Lower your eyes! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.70. (The vote was followed). [[Senator Paglini's comments. Comments from the PD Group. Recalls of the President]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.71. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.72.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u387	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u388	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u389	CASTALDI (M5S). I withdraw my signature from Amendment 1.72.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u390	I take note of that. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.72, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.73.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u391	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u392	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u393	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, this amendment calls for the Commission, in addition to tax controls, to check whether the people who are candidates or who are in the parties have been convicted of crimes against the public administration. With Amendment No 1.72 Senator Crimi, please allow me, he was too much of a justiceist, because he asked to exclude the payment completely. On the other hand, I agree that 10% should be cut. It can happen to everyone, in fact, even to clear parties like yours, that some infiltrated delinquents happen; but, having the reduction of 10 percent, there is a preventive check. I would therefore ask you to vote in favour of amendment 1.73... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u394	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.73, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.81 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 1.74 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MORRA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.74 (text 2), tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.75.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u395	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u396	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u397	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, all the Robin Hood amendments have fallen, i.e. those that took away from the parties what they were not entitled to and went to finance noble causes such as the small and medium-sized enterprises guarantee fund, health research, family support and the non-self-sufficiency fund. The amendments aimed at strengthening the committee and enabling it to do this monitoring work, as well as those on transparency in appointments within the Commission, were also rejected. Amendment 1.75 calls at least for the transparency of the documentation, which will never be formally examined, but which should at least be made available to citizens. That is, if a party or government, despite failing to secure the resources necessary for the controls, still wants the money, must at least allow the citizens to see what was produced. Bad not to, fear not to have.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u398	I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.75. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.76.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u399	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u400	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u401	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, even with Amendment No 1.76 we simply call for transparency, that is, the publication of all the contributions that are made to the parties. I would also like to correct Senator Petrocelli who said earlier that the money that was given to the parties was used to make the parties work in the good thing they were supposed to be. Unfortunately, that story made us understand what it was. There has been such a shocking and disconcerting upheaval that now the parties are no longer being financed, but the individual Members of Parliament, so we must not even talk about parties, but about individual Members who are being financed to serve those lobbyists who in this Parliament continue to impose their will against the well-being of the citizens, against what is right for theirs.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u402	I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.76. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 1.77 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MORRA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.77 (text 2), tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.78.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u403	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u404	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u405	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, Amendment No 1.78 shows our good will, in the sense that it does not abolish the financing of parties, nor does it call for the return of what has been illegally removed from the citizens in order to be sent to the party's coffers; it does not call for the citizens' money no longer to be paid to the parties, but simply to extend the work of the Guarantee Commission by 90 days. This draft law extends the functions of the Guarantee Commission and gives it the opportunity to work. Well, give her ninety days and maybe the five units of administrative support staff in ninety days will do what in two years has failed to do a Commission that had not been put in a position to work. In 90 days, you'll have the money you're owed. This is proof that we have not only been bad, but also understanding of your need to collect the money you have already spent. That, in fact, is the problem: you have already spent it and you have to justify the way to get it back.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u406	I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.78. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.79. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.82.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u407	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u408	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u409	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, we are faced with a striking situation of further funding from state-owned bodies and foundations and, therefore, with further funding from policy makers. I am opposed to this law, as well as to No 96 of 2012, because it is not true that this law finances those who could not do politics otherwise. It finances only certain parties, excluding all others. The real funding for politics should be given to all citizens, opening up public squares and places, so that people can be brought together to make politics for everyone from below and not for private groups, such as political parties.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u410	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.82, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.83, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.84. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.85. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.86.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u411	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u412	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u413	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to speak in an explanation of vote on the previous amendment, Amendment No 1.85, which referred to the need to extend control over the financial statements to political foundations as well. We know that millions and millions of euros go through these bodies which, in some way, support the activities of parties and individual representatives in a grey way. There must also be transparency at that level, especially for foundations funded by the gambling lobby.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u414	I call on Senator Morra and other Senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the first part of Amendment 1,86, until the words 'the judiciary' are spoken. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1.86 and Amendment 1.87 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.88 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.89 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.90 tabled by Senator Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.91. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.92.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u415	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u416	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u417	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, this is the amendment to which Mr Scalfarotto had asked for explanations when expressing his opinions, because it does not change the scope of the legislation. That is precisely why, as this is a specific case, which states that it remains without prejudice to the application of Article 331 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is to denounce the competent authority, it seems right to include this period. We are not saying that we should cut the funding, but we are putting in a specification whereby, if the Commission sees something wrong, it must, however, denounce it. It is a bit like when you make an authentic interpretation of an amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Undersecretary Scalfarotto?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u418	Mr President, first I gave a very quick opinion, which I now try to articulate. In my opinion, this amendment does not involve any new legislation, in the sense that Article 331 of the Code of Criminal Procedure states that public officials and public service officers who, in the exercise or because of their duties or service, have news of a criminal offence of office, must report it in writing. Now, because Article 331 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is in force, writing in a law, which we are now approving, that we are applying a law already in force of the same rank, means that practically we are rewriting a law that already exists. This means adding to the law that we are examining an element that brings nothing new. We don't say anything new. Therefore, the Government's opinion must necessarily remain contrary.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u419	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.92, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.93 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.94 tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.95, tabled by Senator Crimes and other senators, until the words 'n'. ==References====External links== (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1.95 and Amendment 1.96 are therefore excluded. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.97, tabled by Senator Morra and other senators, up to the words of the judiciary. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1,97 and Amendment 1,98 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.99, tabled by Senator Morra and other senators, which is essentially identical to Amendment No 1.100, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,101. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,102. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1.103. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,104. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,105 tabled by Senator Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,106, tabled by Senator Crimes and other senators, up to the words "with the following words." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1106 and amendments 1,107 to 1,109 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,110.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u420	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u421	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u422	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, this amendment calls for the following words to be added: 'if there is no irregularity or discrepancy between them and Article 8 of Law No 2 of 2 January 1997.' This is because we must avoid a total sanatoria, in the sense that beyond receipt we must ensure that the approval of the report, which will then come, is combined with the authorization to grant funding so that it is not a matter of the Commission's duty, but of the Commission's choice. In fact, when the parties do not comply with certain requirements, they are called upon to correct them so that the authorisations are postponed. Therefore, if we do not make this passage mandatory, we may save something.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u423	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.110, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u424	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u425	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u426	NACCARATE (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, my previous vote was by abstention.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u427	The Presidency takes note of this. I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,111. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,112, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by a simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,113. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,114, tabled by Senator Morra and other senators, until the following words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Therefore, the remaining part of amendment 1,114 and amendment 1,115 are not included. I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the first part of Amendment 1,116, until the following words are taken. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1,116 and Amendments 1,117 and 1,118 are therefore excluded. I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the first part of Amendment 1,119 until the following words are taken. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1,119 and Amendments 1,120 and 1,121 are therefore excluded. I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the first part of Amendment 1,122, until the words "from the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1,122 and 1,123 are therefore excluded. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.124, tabled by Senator Crimes and other senators, until the words (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1,124 and Amendment 1,125 are therefore excluded. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1,126, tabled by Senator Crimes and other senators, until the following words: "the (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,126 and amendment 1,127 are therefore excluded. I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,128. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1,129, tabled by Senator Crimes and other senators, until the following words: "up to the end of the year. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1,129 and Amendments 1,130 and 1,131 are therefore excluded. I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,132. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1,133.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u428	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u429	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u430	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, this amendment states a principle that we should consider. The 5 Star Movement practices equality and equal opportunities between the sexes and within our lists there are mainly female leaders, without the need for any law to impose them on us. Since this is not the case for parties, it is simply a question here of the Commission applying a sanction, including an economic sanction, in the event that one of the sexes is represented to less than 45%. I give it to your consciences so that you can vote for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u431	I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the first part of Amendment 1,133 until the words "less than" are inserted. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,133 and amendments 1,134 and 1,135 are therefore excluded. I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,136. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,137, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators, identical to amendment 1,138, tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,139 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the first part of Amendment 1,140, until the following words are added: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1,140 and amendments 1,141 to 1,149 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,150, tabled by Senator Crimes and other senators, until the following words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,150 and amendments 1,151 and 1,152 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,153 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,154.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u432	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u433	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u434	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, this amendment is intended to limit tax deductions for those who pay liberal donations to parties over EUR 10,000. The 5 Star Movement is funded with voluntary microdonations, but here we are talking about really important figures. I would remind you that these are public funds, because the deductions are essentially public money that the State renounces to retain for the benefit of those who finance the parties, thus increasing the propensity to give large sums. And the large sums bestowed on the parties are very often in the smell of corruption, if not of undue pressure, at least that they are not financed from public funds.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u435	I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,154. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1,155.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u436	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u437	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u438	WOMAN (M5S). President, I have a question for you. The citizens are asking us something, they are asking you something and they might want to get an answer. They ask us if it is possible to do the Boccadutri- bis in twenty days and not forty, so that we can finance... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u439	I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the first part of amendment 1,155 until the words "between 0 and." [[Senator Martelli's comments. The vote will then be taken at the next voting time.]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,155 and amendments 1,156 and 1,157 are therefore excluded. I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the first part of amendment 1,158 until the words "between 0 and." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,158 and amendment 1,159 are therefore excluded. I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the first part of Amendment 1,160 until the words "and sections" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,160 and amendment 1,161 are therefore excluded. I invite you to remove those cards, which are not such, inserted into the voting system. I would ask you to remove items which do not relate to the vote. I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,162. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,163, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,165. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,167. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,169 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,170. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,172.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u440	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u441	However, it must remove what is not the card to vote. I'm running out of time, but it takes some fairness. I also call on your other colleagues to do so. The times are abundantly exhausted but, since I want to proceed with the work in respect of everyone, you have to remove those that are not tiles. Respect must be mutual, otherwise I could answer you, Senator Endrizzi, that the times are exhausted, but I do not intend to do so. (Senator Endrizzi removes the leaflet depicting a credit card "Boccadutri card" from the voting device.) You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u442	I would like to explain three amendments which are essentially similar, namely 1,172, 1,173 and 1,174, which simply require updating of the heading and formal correctness of the law, which should be in line with the content of the heading itself. There are several hypotheses, but what I like most should be called accounting and financial sanatorium for political parties and movements related to the 2013-2014 financial years. I would point out - and by elegance I do not mention the name - that even a majority senator had to say that this aspect of the law was not acceptable and would have had doubts. I do not see him here now. Perhaps there is and, if you will, you may be able to supplement my statement.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u443	I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,172. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u444	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u445	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u446	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I have very much appreciated your reference to mutual respect and, in this very context, I have a question about the order of business. I would like to understand, if possible, why you have not applied a maxi kangaroo to our amendments tonight. Why would it be too dirty not to vote one by one and fail them? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u447	Evidently, there were no requirements to apply it. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,173 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,174. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote on the amendment 1.0.2 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.0.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u448	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u449	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u450	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, the reason for this amendment is that legal persons - not natural persons, but at least legal persons - are prevented from contributing to the financing of parties. In fact, there is always and in any case a conflict of interest when parties determine policies that can benefit certain societies or bodies over others. I believe that we should, if anything, allow private citizens the freedom to assess whether the work of a political force deserves a personal sacrifice. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u451	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u452	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u453	[[Senator Fuksia points out that she wants to intervene]] BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I do not agree with this amendment because, although I have signed it, I have then thought more deeply about it, realizing that one thing is missing. The ban should also be provided for funding for the elect, who receive lump-sum reimbursements in which they do not pay taxes; they pay them to the parties and then benefit from tax deductions, thus having two advantages. For this reason, I shall vote against the amendment if the figure of those elected who receive lump sums is not included.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u454	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u455	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u456	ENDRIZZI (M5S). I accept Mr Bottici's proposal for reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u457	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendment that has just been reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u458	The opinion was opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u459	The opinion was in accordance with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u460	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.0.4 (text 2), tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators, up to the words "in favour" of "in favour." (The vote was followed). [[Comments of Senator Fucksia]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.0.4 (text 2) and amendment 1.0.5. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 1.0.6 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.0.6 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u461	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u462	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u463	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, I asked to make an explanation of vote in favour of the previous amendment, then the other of course was the same, so I understand the speech. I am voting in dissent on matters other than those of my colleague, Mr Bottici, because I think this situation... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are now voting on amendment 1.0.6 (text 2). Does your dissenting explanation of vote refer to this amendment, Senator Fucksia? FUCKSIA (M5S). So much the same, even for the rest, is a matter of principle. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, then let's proceed to the vote. FUCKSIA (M5S). No, no, I would like to make these comments, please, since I have never intervened. I was saying that we cannot discriminate against those who can make donations and those who can't, because when we enter into the game of conflict of interest, we all have a conflict of interest. For crazy, sometimes, in the dynamics... president. We are on Amendment 1.0.6 (text 2), Senator Fucksia. FUCKSIA (M5S). Yes. The problem of conflict of interest is a huge problem. None of us are out of any conflict of interest. Strictly speaking, if we remove all conflicts of interest, I don't know what we have left, perhaps the benches that vote for themselves. I would like to add one more thing. So many amendments have been tabled, but the most important one has not been tabled. The most important thing is to really change the perspective of funding, taking it completely away from the parties.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u464	Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.6 (text 2), tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u465	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u466	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u467	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, if it were possible, I would like to put to the record that my vote on Amendment 1.0.4 is in favour, since my colleague has reworded it. You were saying earlier that the time is running out... They've expired a long time ago, Senator Bottici. I am giving the floor, because I think it is right that we should be able to express ourselves, while respecting the fact that time has expired. BOTTICS (M5S). Given that the time has expired and that none of our colleagues are going to speak, I would ask, if possible, to be able to exploit all the times of our colleagues. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You know that the Groups can give way if they feel that they do. However, the Presidency is allowing additional time for reasonableness. BOTTICS (M5S). Otherwise, it doesn't make sense to split the times...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u468	If any group wants to give up its time, it can tell the Presidency, which is already making a proper and rational assessment. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u469	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u470	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u471	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1 BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u472	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u473	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u474	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to return to the question of opportunities, as has already been dealt with in Amendment 1.82 and in the amendment to include Article 1-a. It is important to reason on the opportunity and conflict of interest, because you have been basing yourself on a principle for twenty-three years, but you are climbing on mirrors. The principle that would be right, at the basis of a fair distribution of opportunities, falls absolutely where there are no funding ceilings and there are no limits for those who finance. I'll give you an example. I found myself in the Environment Commission having to deal with eight ILVA decrees, I saw how the government and the majority went to the rescue of the Riva family. I simply make this reference: the Riva made a financing, according to law, of 100,000 euros to the neominister of Bersani infrastructures. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, let's proceed with the vote. NUGNES (M5S). It's not out of the law, but it's definitely inappropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u475	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u476	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u477	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u478	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, this amendment stems from a concrete observation of what has happened so far, so I would ask you to make a change of heart, to change the way in which this policy is carried out. Here we ask that direct and indirect financing or the provision of any activity by natural and legal persons who have in place or participate in notices relating to concessions of the State, the Regions, local authorities, public bodies or companies with direct or indirect public participation, including minority parties and political movements, be prohibited. It has already happened, and this amendment describes the history of our country. Let's cut it out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u479	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.5, tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.6, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.7, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u480	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u481	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u482	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, the aim of this amendment is to give transparency to the relationship between donors in favour of political formations, especially because there may be reports of clients, jobs or advice. This could - and in fact in many cases it has been established - be a hidden funding to parties, so the party favours the provision of expenditure in favour of a consultant and then is returned through an indirect path. This is something that really scandalizes public opinion, and I believe that we could have at least a majority satisfaction.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u483	I call on Senator Morra and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.9. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.0.1, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators, up to the words "from the year." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.0.1 and amendment 2.0.2 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u484	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u485	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u486	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1 BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Morra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 3.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u487	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u488	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u489	ENDRIZZI (M5S). This is another amendment which calls for transparency on how parties are financed. Data on all funding, contributions and donations of money must be made public. We still don't know who was at dinner with Renzi and these things we can no longer let go of, we can't let the dust hide under the carpet.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u490	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Morra and other senators, until the following words are taken. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 3.2 and Amendments 3.3 and 3.4 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.5, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators, until the words "legal person" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 3.5 and Amendment 3.6 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 3.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u491	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u492	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u493	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, with this amendment we are giving you a chance that you really cannot miss. So far no amendments have passed, the intention is clear, we have told you everything and more, all well deserved things, but now if you read Amendment 3.7, you see that what we propose is that at least you are free from the possibility that the corrupters, i.e. those convicted of past sentences for crimes against the public administration, cannot pay funds to the parties. You have a chance to say that you take the money because democracy needs the money of Italians - we also pretend to believe it - but at least have the courage to say that you corrupt the money you don't want it. If this amendment does not pass, you will bury yourselves permanently. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u494	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.7, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators, up to the word 'condemned'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 3.7 and Amendment 3.8 are therefore not included. I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 3.9. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the adoption without amendment of Articles 1 to 3 of the draft law, all amendments aimed at changing the title of the measure are precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u495	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u496	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u497	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to point out that I wanted to abstain in the previous vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u498	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u499	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u500	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, the Conservative and Reformist Group will vote for the adoption of the draft law that we have just examined. We will do so because we believe that the amendments made to Article 9 of Law No 96 of 2012 are useful and necessary to enable the Commission to ensure that the tasks set out in the above mentioned law are carried out. In fact, the forecast of seven additional units can have the work completed that the Commission has not done so far. We would certainly have liked to improve the bill, with our amendments 1.90 and 1.105, which aimed to submit to the compliance check provided for in Article 9 the statements of the political parties after 2013 and not just 2014; this, in order to increase the transparency effect desired by the law and with the ultimate aim of reconciling the electoral citizen with the political party. I would like to make a few further comments on this very subject. Law No 96 and subsequent Decree-Law No 149 of 2013 are still not implemented, not only as provided for in Article 9, relating to the control of the accounts, but especially as regards the rules concerning the implementation of a true internal democracy in the parties. Articles 2 et seq. of Decree No 149 have no other purpose than to implement the constitutional provision of Article 49. We will remember: "All citizens have the right to join freely in parties in order to contribute democratically to determining national policy". To this end, Article 3 regulates and regulates the statutes of the parties, which must provide for the holding of congress meetings, to be held with precise deadlines. Again, Article 5 focuses on transparency in party life. These forecasts are, to date, mere statements which have no concrete effect. Failure to implement these rules will result in a further increase in the impact on voters and parties. On the other hand, we believe that, together with the issue of funding, it is urgent to resolve the problem of internal democracy of parties. The discussions on the effectiveness of the primary as a method for the selection of the ruling class or those concerning the charismatic parties, in which congresses, assemblies and memberships are an old and abandoned practice, show that the predictions of that decree have not only been implemented so far, but have even been overcome by concrete reality. Yet, in our opinion, the internal democracy of the parties corresponds and guarantees the democracy of the State itself, as a whole. Finally, the issue of funding is one of the issues before us, but very important is how the parties work today and how they try to improve their rules or their way of staying on the political scene. In this sense, there is much talk of the primary and we hope to regulate them in a way that we could define universal or at least accepted by all political forces, so that the rule is always the same for the different sides and in the different places where they are used. I am thinking of the case of other types of consultations, such as those carried out through the web: in both cases, both in the primaries and in the so-called parliamentarians, it would be desirable for the law to establish that information on those who participated in these forms of consultation can be accessed, i.e. that the lists are transparent and accessible to all. It is a way of bringing citizens closer to the lives of political parties, associations or movements. As far as the traditional party is concerned, the last consideration is that it is necessary to guarantee the objectives of which I spoke before and which are indicated in the law, where it is stated that precise congresses must be held, to clarify how to elect the subjects representing those parties and how to indicate the persons who go to be part of the lists. Only in this way will the issue of the financing of the parties not be in itself, but will allow to restore vitality to the formations that contribute to the political life of this country and in this sense our work of today is only part of that work. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u501	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u502	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u503	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Mr President, by announcing the Group's vote in favour, I would ask you to allow me to hand over the text of my speech so that it is annexed to the Reports of today's sitting. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u504	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u505	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u506	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u507	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after a day which has been particularly prosaic for so many reasons, I thank you for what you have done because you have given me the opportunity to remember a poem (because it was a poem for me), that is, "Bocca di rosso" (Pink Mouth), which by association recalls the draft law under consideration, which to call infamous is to say little. As many will remember, "Bocca di rosso" is, with irony and sarcasm, what Fabrizio De Andrè wanted to write about the hypocrisy of some cowards and some dishonests, in that case of female sex, who, without having the courage to face reality, hid behind the provincial hypocrisy of country because anyway they had to take the bone. And the bone in this case is the stack -- excuse me if I speak in jargon -- it's the ghetto, it's the money, it's the money. The money is that 45 million euros (not peanuts) that you are raiding because you have to earn citizenship for you left, when instead people, as happened this afternoon, perhaps die from drowning produced by hydrogeological failure, because as we speak here, in the Province of Frosinone the rains cause flooding and death. This, in fact, is normal: we are closed here and you share the cake; we try to prevent it and you do everything, because by forcing the Regulations you can really do everything. You also with the President of the Council (who dares to go on television and say these things) indicated in the perfect bicameralism what represents the handbrake of the country and then in forty days you approve an infamous law with which you take money that you did not have to take. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You didn't have to take them, because the bill in question intervenes in clearing up a mistake that you made with a law dated 2012, with which, however, Illegally banging the will of citizens, voters, taxpayers, you decided that that money was still yours. So, I would like to remind you that you are world champions of hypocrisy, because it is no longer schizophrenia: at least schizophrenia is a psychopathology, while you are hypocrites, because you are false knowing that you are.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u508	I'd invite you to a more appropriate language.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u509	MORRA (M5S). I ask Matteo Renzi to go on television and not to talk about the European Council in which he will reiterate that we were right. GAETTI (M5S). Give the video! Give the video! MORRA (M5S). These are petty as well as mediocre techniques by which one tries to hide the truth. President Gasparri, if you can't, have someone help you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I do politics, someone else does the electrician! MORRA (M5S). But the button pushes him! [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] I'm asking for a truth operation. You, with the usual semantic communicative scams, hide the truth from the Italians. There's money here. It is money that you are subtracting from citizens, especially those most in need. Today is the case of the flood of the Aniene. Calabria is still waiting for the measures that had been announced, as usual. And here I challenge the Calabrian colleagues of the majority, but they can also be Tuscan or Sardinian, to say if the announcements follow the facts. And then, I ask that sanctions be taken against me because, ladies and gentlemen, you do not know, exactly as the citizens who voted for us do not know, but you, like me, are sold: but not for a plate of lentils or tripe, as someone said, but for values, which are called transparency and honesty! As someone in this House has said that the term "sold" must be sanctioned, I ask for sanctions for myself and I want to see if you give it to me! [[Applause from the M5S Group. The Senators of the M5S Group display posters depicting a credit card "Boccadutri card," registered to Matteo Renzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u510	I invite the quaestor senators to requisition the exposed material.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u511	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u512	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u513	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I declare the Senators of the SEL Group abstaining. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Good girl, De Petris, good girl! Vote with PD all the time! [[Senator De Petris' comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u514	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u515	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u516	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this measure by the Forza Italia Group. I would like to reiterate a concept in this House - we have already done so in the Commission - and I would ask my colleagues, whom we listened very carefully during the debate on the amendments, to have as much patience. We are talking here about a measure which has suffered in the debate, in the examination, in the description that has been given, a profound injustice. We are talking about a measure which ratifys a figure already acquired by our system. The public funding of the parties was abolished in 2012, through a décalage procedure that we began to implement and which will end in 2017. He was officially replaced by the decree-law of 2013, also evoked by colleagues who preceded me, and converted into law in 2014, which replaced the public funding of the parties. No more public money from citizens in party pockets: this no longer exists. This form of financing has been replaced by voluntary contributions in the form of donations from natural persons and legal persons, who are subject to tax deductions, as well as to the famous 2 per thousand, the voluntary contribution on the tax on natural persons. We must start from this, colleagues. Everything else is legitimate demagogy. CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Because De Petris doesn't talk! BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). We would also like to stress that what we are doing at the moment is not a sanatorium, but the regularisation of a position of non-compliance which, for once, fails the State and the control body, in particular the Commission. His own President, President Calamaro, who will certainly have had the opportunity to appreciate in the shorthand of his statements to the President of the House and to the President of the Senate, said very clearly that he was not able to examine the accounts, budgets and supporting documents already presented by the political parties, with accompanying documentation, due to lack of staff, resources and staff. For once, therefore, the failure does not lie in the political parties, which have put in place those control mechanisms required by the law that we have all voted on, but by a Commission that, certainly not because of its fault, following an underestimation that the law of 2012 has operated and that the law of 2013 has not completely amended, has not been able to carry out the checks in good time. We are talking about this, ladies and gentlemen, as well as an interpretative rule, which we consider to be an act of justice, which allows the extension of social shock absorbers and solidarity contracts also to the employees of political parties, who must not be penalised, punished against others, for having been or being dependent on political parties. I do not want to go any further because any of you will have the patience - I would say the duty, given the assembly we are in - to read the norm, you will know that we are telling the truth. This I repeat, confirming the Group of Forza Italia's vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u517	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u518	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u519	DEL BARBA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are about to vote on is very simple, as Senator Bernini reminded us, namely to strengthen the staff of the Commission to guarantee the statutes for the transparency and control of political party statements. It does so with three articles that have been discussed in Parliament since 13 February 2015. It does so by intervening on a concrete situation that sees the 2013 budgets of the parties, certified with the same criteria as the companies that are admitted on the stock exchange, deposited with the Commission with all the supporting pieces in support of each item and until now not examined. It does so at the request of the President of the Guarantee Commission himself, as was mentioned earlier, by intervening to make finally operational what the law already has. At last, they are simply assigned with secondment of five staff units, employees of the Court of Auditors, to be applied to the audit activities and two additional units of staff, dependent on other public administrations, to be applied in the audit activities, all with the appropriate professional competence, to examine the statements of political parties according to the legal dictates. In the absence of such staff, the Commission is not in a position to carry out its mandate in full. Therefore the measure, contrary to what is supported by the 5 Star Movement and by those who are actively opposed to it, is aimed precisely at an effective and full control of regularity with reference to the statements of political parties. In absurd terms, those who are against this measure do not want the Guarantee Commission to function and the party's statements to be verified. [[Applause from the PD Group]] For these simple reasons the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the measure. That, Mr President, should end here the explanation of vote on a measure which is so simple, so obvious, as complementary and consistent with what is already laid down in the law. Instead, it is necessary to participate all together in this great fiction that someone thinks they can assemble and disassemble at will whenever you touch on the issue of financing parties or other subject that is considered sufficiently interesting and manipulatable. A fiction that includes predictable and repetitive scripts, staged also rather worn and stale and above all prescribes the total mystification of reality. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] A fiction in which one has the claim that we ourselves act as protagonists and appeared more or less aware, even in these classrooms. We go so far as to ask the Presidency to act as a director's help [[Applause from the PD Group]] : Open the microphone, give me the camera, give me the floor, take this launch of Rules of Procedure in the air [[Applause from the PD Group]] , to invite the press present in the Chamber to report what has just been said, immortalize the picture indicated; they will excuse the photographers if I do not turn, but I prefer to speak to the Presidency and to the entire Chamber. [[Applause from the PD Group]] What does it matter if everything is completely destitute of foundation? [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] It is truly a great innovation, the one that is proposed by the 5 Star Movement: it would move from the theater of politics to the great reality of politics, all for the great show of the network or supposedly such. Yes, beautiful the net, we like; beautiful participation; beautiful the new policy that we all want to build; but what need do we have - you have - to introduce into all this the evil seed of lies and mystification? I assure you that citizens are more mature than that, they love the truth more than the spectacle of trumpets and spinning stars. [[Applause from the PD Group. Live comments and protests from the M5S Group.]] So let's tell it, for once, this truth, President. Perhaps it is too simple and boring, as I mentioned in my introduction. If it's necessary, how's it going today, let's build a compelling narrative, look for a crime, a misdemeanor, and go after the culprit: do you want to see that those smart parties have hidden budgets or have not complied with any legal provisions? (Some Senators of the M5S Group exhibit leaflets depicting credit cards "Boccadutri card"). LUCIDES (M5S). You got this from the Pope! DEL BARBA (PD). Indeed, no, they have submitted them in good time, with all the supporting pieces, accompanied by certification, equal to the budgets of the companies that are listed on the stock exchange. An authentic revolution of which we, the Democratic Party, are proud protagonists. [[Applause from the PD Group]] CASTALDI (M5S). You passed Silvio! DEL BARBA (PD). I invite everyone to check out what I'm saying by going to our site and looking in the appropriate section. Do you want to see, then, that the parties are trying to avoid controls? This bill does exactly the opposite: it allocates the human resources necessary for the checks to be carried out, just as requested by the chairman of this Guarantee Commission. Not even this plot can be cooked. So what do we do? How do we build this reality show? However, there is talk of money at parties: let's mount the mud machine, something will happen. LUCIDES (M5S). Turn off the TV! DEL BARBA (PD). Sometimes, ladies and gentlemen, turning the spotlight on reality can be uncomfortable for those who do it. With regard to the financing of parties, we are proud to be those who have cancelled public funding through electoral refunds, establishing a transparent and voluntary form of participation in the democratic life of the country and of funding to parties through the mechanism of 2 per thousand. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] It wasn't easy and in fact he feared it wouldn't work. AIROLA (M5S). You make us laugh, you liar: 42 million we didn't take! MIRABELLI (PD). It is not only President Grasso who must enforce this House, however! DEL BARBA (PD). [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Leave it, ma'am. Don't worry. This year, however, over 500,000 citizens, those you say you listen to, have rewarded this decision with regard to the Democratic Party, and it is a number destined to rise. We are putting our face on this issue, strong in our choices and in our transparency. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] We also have the courage to experiment with private funding, through donations. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] , of our activities and to face the inevitable discussions that rightly result, which are uncomfortable, and force us to test our ideas even in the face of limited cases... LUCIDES (M5S). You test!! DEL BARBA (PD). ...but I am a living part of our country's democratic life and this will always see us working to find the most balanced and acceptable solution for our democracy. [[Senator Paglini's comments.]] We have made the issue of money in politics and in family and public institutions, competing at every level so that the principle of transparency is ultimately the main guarantee for each citizen. LUCIDES (M5S). Shame on you! DEL BARBA (PD). There is still a long way to go on this issue and we will do it with the step of those who have the responsibility to open the track, as we have done so far. This is what the spotlight shows: our perseverance, transparency, and I do not hesitate to use the word courage. [[Senator Donno's comments.]] In this new path we do not want to escape - and I conclude, Mr President - as a Democratic Party, from the proper controls, and for this reason we want to strengthen the structure of the Commission to guarantee the statutes and for the transparency and control of the statements of political parties. So, how do we sell this reality show? Where do we find the culprit if he's not the butler this time? There will be at least a few tricks of the law which, finally, has not been respected. Well, yes, there's a cow in the hallway, a huge cow looking nicely at us. [[Comments of Senator Moronese]] while all of us - or maybe just some of us - try to get away from him by pretending not to see him. It is the total lack of transparency of the 5 Star Movement [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Repetti. Comments of the Senators Lucidi and Moronese),]] only that it has not submitted budgets [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] , only to have no right even from the start to the electoral refunds, only to have violated the law that we are going to amend as indicated today. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Today politics needs transparency and courageous choices, like the ones we voted yesterday to suppress the Senate... [[Comments from the M5S Group]] MORONESE (M5S). Shame on you! DEL BARBA (PD). ...as we know it, putting - as you must do - the interest of the country before the personal one. I can't believe someone didn't want to be there! We're having a revolution that you probably didn't even notice. When you finally open the can of tuna, maybe inside you will find your budgets [[Comments from the M5S Group]] But don't worry: we will not take care of it; we will still be busy changing and ruling this country. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups. Congratulations.]] [[Live comments from the M5S Group]] AIROLA (M5S). Horns!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u520	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. [[Brusio in the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u521	You have the right to do so. If you do not start your speech, you will go on with this confusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u522	Senator Martelli, I'll call you back to order. Stay where you are. [[Senator Martelli's protests]] ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I would simply like, and much more calmly, to make a statement as the Senator of Italy of the Values of the Mixed Group, whose vote will be in favour for three reasons. The first reason is that I was very impressed by the speech that Senator Gotor, rapporteur, made this morning, which was very specific. And I was also very impressed by the provocative attitude of some senators who stood by him, as if they were to frighten him. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Laniece]] This is a mechanism that I don't accept coming anywhere and, therefore, not even from those who think they are Plato or Cicero of the Senate. I also voted in favour of what Senator Bernini said, which, in fact, explained in a simple way, without going around much, that this is no longer money we take from citizens, but it is donations. If we don't want to believe it, we don't believe it. Having said that, I would like to point out that it is time to stop saying - in my opinion - that all politicians are parasites. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and Mixed Groups]] , of the profiteers disconnected from reality, who think only to fill their pockets... [[Senator Paglini's comments.]] SUSTA (PD). What are you? ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). ...and they wouldn't have any awareness of the lives of ordinary people and they'd better get out of the way. If this is the message to pass, I think it is dangerous and the leader of this type of populist party who presents himself as the spokesman... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u523	Senator Romani, I'm sorry, you've been talking much longer than you were entitled to.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u524	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u525	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u526	AUGELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, my group will vote in favour of this measure as a whole. I disagree for technical reasons. We have been very uncomfortable with the debate on this measure, so much so that we have not taken part in the votes in the Commission. In fact, we take a number of positive aspects, especially in the part - the prevailing one, which causes my Group to vote in favour - which protects with some important institutions the employees of the parties, many of whom are experiencing a dramatic situation at the moment. However, there is a technical problem, in the sense that initially the legislation carried a mistake, because otherwise the Commission could have carried out the checks it did not do. This error must be attributed to the legislator who has not properly assessed the costs and needs of the staff. To introduce a rule that allows immediate delivery despite the lack of controls is understandable precisely for those reasons that also concern the employees to which I mentioned at the beginning. It is less understandable to assume that the Commission will never again monitor these accounts, budgets and tokens simply because they are certified as for listed companies, firstly because the law already originally provided for both certification and control (therefore we do not understand why the need for control is lacking); secondly, because companies listed on the stock exchange are also subject to controls despite certifying their own budgets. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Augello, I invite you to conclude. AUGELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). In the face of this defect, which unfortunately the rapporteur has not been able to heal, I believe also for reasons of time (because there are needs for which we did not want to postpone the provision to the House, so at least I understood), the mess remains and from the technical point of view also our discomfort remains. For these reasons, which - ahinoi - represent a gift to that narration to which the colleague of the Democratic Party for the 5 Star Movement referred first, I will vote abstaining, remembering that abstention is valid vote against in the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u527	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u528	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u529	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, the Other Europe component with Tsipras will abstain, like colleagues in the Left Ecology and Freedom component, essentially for the same reasons as Senator Augello. I'd like to report something. This afternoon I saw a terrible spectacle: a spectacularization of the policy made entirely of communication, as well as the 5 Star Movement, which is actually not transparent even in the administration of the funds it manages. [[Applause from the PD Group]] At the same time, however, I must say that the spectacle of the Senators of the Democratic Party has not been better, who have been silent all the time except the final theater blow that said pieces of truth neglecting others so well described by my colleague Augello. I would like to remind my colleagues in the Democratic Party that the best election campaign for the 5 Star Movement has been doing it for months, even with behaviors such as this afternoon and with the vote with which the Senate was essentially abolished yesterday. [[Applause from Senator Bocchino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u530	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u531	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u532	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I wish to declare my vote against this measure. It is a particularly symbolic vote against, because I realize that there will be a large majority on this issue. My vote against is based on a fundamental principle: I claim the value of the policy with which we entered here and called politics without money. In fact, we have realized - I believe everyone, including our colleagues in the 5 Star Movement - that this is not exactly the case, because competences must be paid anyway and because we have not yet arrived at a model of responsibility for citizens so that the citizen says: "Yes, it's something that concerns me too and I'll put some of my time in it." This I believe was the highest goal we had, a goal that we did not succeed, failed, I did not succeed, but neither did my former colleagues actually manage to achieve (and maybe they are not even on the right track). But certainly very far from this path are those who do not realize that such a bill, while, among other things, in the Commission lies... PRESIDENT. Thank you, Senator Mussini. MUSSINI (Mixed). Please let me finish, Mr. President, I never exaggerate. I was saying that there is a draft law in the Commission on lobbying which should instead be a draft law that accompanies with great force what is being done today and what is new today for the funding of parties. Derogations and lack of control are the worst sign that politics can give to citizens. That is why I shall vote against it. So I also say to my colleague Del Barba that not everyone has a Undersecretary who directs national publishing.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u533	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u534	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u535	CRIMI (M5S). If we were to vote against, Mr President, Mr Del Barba's speech convinced me not to participate. But not at this fiction, but at this partition of the cake. Mr President, allow me to explain why I did not vote. I'm at this table, at this banquet where you're sharing the cake all of you don't want to participate, and I don't want to get close. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Senator Del Barba's intervention is an offense to the 19 million poor...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u536	You must express yourself in dissent, Senator Crimes, do not review the other speeches, otherwise we are here all day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u537	CRIMI (M5S). My choice not to participate in the vote is linked to the intervention of Senator Del Barba, which is an offense to 19 million poor people. I remember that you're the ones who spent 10 million euros on communicating... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Stop! VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. The video! GAETTI (M5S). Bravo, Bravo, this is your democracy, this is your Rules of Procedure! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The video is in the worldview. Please finish, Senator Crimes. CRIMI (M5S). Finally, Mr President, remembering that you are the ones who have allocated EUR 10 million to finance the communication of EUR 2 per thousand. You put it in the law: you used 10 million euros to fund a communication campaign, but it didn't do anything, so you could have the 2 per thousand, which was then... hundreds of thousands of euros... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u538	Your time is running out, Senator Crimes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u539	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u540	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u541	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, my speech only aims at setting off at 8.30 p.m., the perfect time so that...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u542	Let's move on, let's proceed with the vote, it's not that there's the sound comment here.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u543	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u544	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u545	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u546	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Extensive ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u547	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u548	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u549	SIMONI (Mist). Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in the Latin newspapers. [[Extensive ironic applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u550	Senator Martelli, gymnastics can do it in the gym if you prepare for other activities.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u551	Please, Senator. SIMONI (Mist). Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, the newspapers in Latina headlined: "Terremote criminal", "Gomorra poncina", "Decapitated the clan Di Silvio, "Malavita, politics and football." (Senator Simeoni shows a copy of the daily newspaper "Il giornale di Latina"). Latina is my city and I should cry bitter tears in reading this news, but the truth is that by now I can't feel any more anger for these things: only a great sense of disgust. It is clear that the capital mafia model is in place in many Italian cities, especially in Central-South, but not only. There are Italian cities at the mercy of criminal systems, of individuals who allow themselves to say: This town is my stuff! I'm in charge here! I am the king! We learn that they are often clans of people of Roma ethnicity, or rather gypsies, as we called them before the politically correct and radical chic arrived. These clans use violence, bullying, usury, stalking and killing, trafficking drugs, corrupting public officials, policemen, policemen, even hiring Romanians to organize armed gangs of robbers. What's the state doing? What does the state do while these vicious criminals drain our cities from within? Maybe it waits for the judiciary alone to solve the problem, but we know very well how Italian justice works: prisons, for some, have revolving doors. Many of the arrested have told the families to wait a few days and that they would soon be home again. Unfortunately it will be so and perhaps the Government, in order not to displease anyone, will put a new indult: to the face of anti-corruption laws, of the DAC and of the legality so flagdierato in recent years. The truth is that politics is lax, it is not interested in the problem also because very often it is collusion; in fact, in this investigation a Member of the Republic is investigated. Politicians have understood that eliminating mafia clans is not appropriate, because they are a good center of purchasing votes and can often also solve personal problems. Ladies and gentlemen, the case of Latina is just another episode of the constant failure of institutions and politics, and the situation will not change because it lacks the will to change things. In fact, this branch of Parliament is about to become a parking lot for inquisitive people seeking impunity: all the opposite of what this country would need. The direction we have taken in this parliamentary term is completely wrong and I am afraid that it is too late to change it. However, I want to thank and congratulate the commissioner of Latina, who has been killing several mob gangs since he arrived. I thank Giuseppe De Matteis for this further operation called "Don't touch " and finally thank the assistant prosecutor Nunzia D'Elia.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u552	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u553	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u554	GRANAIOLA (PD). Mr President, yesterday there was another serious case of meningitis in Tuscany: a 75-year-old woman in Portoferraio; today a three-year-old girl in San Giuliano di Pisa has been hit. In both cases it is meningococcal type B, a less serious form, fortunately, not the dreaded strain that since the beginning of the year has already made six victims, but nevertheless a form that cannot and must not be underestimated because it can be very aggressive and can be transmitted between immunodepressed subjects. The 75-year-old woman is hospitalized in prognosis reserved for the hospital in Livorno and her condition is still serious. The three-year-old girl is hospitalized at Meyer Hospital in Florence and, although she is responding to the treatments, she is still in private prognosis. I spoke last week in this House following the third death in the empolese, which raised the alarm in the population. Meningitis is scary because it appears suddenly and within a few hours it can get to kill, as unfortunately happened on 30 March last to the nurse of thirty-four years of Vinci. Tuscany, which is the second Region of Italy, after Puglia, as number of cases registered in the last three years (34 cases and six deaths), is doing, fortunately, a widespread campaign for vaccinations. As I did last week, I speak today to return to urge a response from the Higher Institute of Health, which will make us understand better what disease we are dealing with, what is caused by it, what are the reasons why the demonstrations are becoming so frequent in Tuscany. I believe, Mr President, that an answer from the Higher Institute of Health is urgent and no longer deferable. I also believe that the Ministry of Health needs a strong information campaign on how meningitis is recognised, especially type C meningitis, what precautions should be taken not to be infected and what are the possibilities for prevention, starting from vaccinations, and possible side effects and if these effects actually exist. [[Applause from Senator Dirindin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u555	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u556	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u557	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to talk about a theft not of a few thousand euros, but of two billion euros each year. Two billion euros is, in fact, what has been calculated the banks appropriate with the technique of anatocism, an illegal technique but still used. It is not wrong to say that the banks continue to use it, because only in the last period nine banks have been condemned definitively; it is therefore not our personal opinion, because there is a series of judgments issued against nine banks: BPM, ING, Deutsche Bank, Intesa Sanpaolo, Unicredit, Fineco, IW Bank, European Regional Bank (UBI Group) and Banca Sella. I would, however, like to make it clear that all the court can do is order the cessation of unlawful conduct - and there would be no more - and simply the adoption of information measures to bring to the attention of the injured and consumers the device of the ordinances issued by the courts, that is, the judgment. I would like to make it clear to the citizens that if they go to the store and steal a package of candy or apple they go to jail: of course it is right, they must not steal; if the banks steal two billion euros a year, all the court can do is say to the bank: "Bad, bad, don't do it anymore." This Parliament, which voted yesterday for a reform of the Senate and today for the financing of the parties, never takes the time to introduce something very trivial, namely a sanction that provides for dissuasive measures and, of course, the return of the ill removed. You don't understand why a thief, caught with his hands in jam, has to return and banks don't. It should also provide for the extension of protection to businesses and professionals, since it currently applies only to consumers. We are asking for an answer to my question which denounces this very situation and we strongly hope that the Bank of Italy, which has the power to order the repayment of the amounts wrongly received, will do so. You don't understand why, or rather you understand very well... PRESIDENT. Thank you, Senator. GIROTTO (M5S). If you'll let me finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. GIROTTO (M5S). I hope that the Bank of Italy will exercise its power under Article 128-b of the single bank text and that this Parliament will introduce sanctions and the obligation to repay interest wrongly received. [[Applause from Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u558	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u559	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u560	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, once again I am trying to talk about work, about the dignity lost in the world of work. In these days fortunately it has come to the fore (as it were), or rather some media have been interested in the problem of women working in the FCA group. I am talking about the fact that the work suits, of very clear color, are stain and cause great discomfort to women, whose dignity in those moments, especially because of their biological diversity, goes to be compromised. However, this is only a part of a problem that arises from the fact that the work breaks have been reduced, from two from twenty minutes each to three from ten minutes, and do not allow workers to go to the bathroom in the utmost tranquility and respect for hygiene rules. I'll explain. Before the breaks were sliding, that is, a worker was replaced by another worker (the problem is very serious, I tell the few intimates that we stayed), so the workers who went to the bathroom were many less. Now the breaks are collective, so in ten minutes you go to the bathroom virtually a whole shift of workers, who therefore have to wait, line up (with all the consequences of the case) in maximum hygiene in ten minutes. If you also add the fact that sometimes the bathrooms are far from the stations (we talk about serious things, they also do hundreds of meters to go to the bathroom), think carefully about what can happen. Fortunately, only a part of that problem has emerged, but the issue is much more serious and goes a lot to the root. Since I always repeat that politics should be concerned with the real facts that happen and as we talk about work, which is the mirror of a country's civilization, I put all this to the attention of the House. I would also like to see all the members of the Committees dealing with work or the Committees of Inquiry into Work take charge of all this, because we are talking about real and concrete things and that, if only politics were interested, they would be easy to resolve. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u561	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-523.ana.u562	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 15 October, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.46 p.m.
