ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.37 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.41).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders approved by a majority changes to the current timetable and the new timetable until 12 March. During today's afternoon session, the IMU Decree-Law on the exemption of agricultural land will continue to be examined. In the single sitting of tomorrow will be discussed the decree-law of extension deadlines. In order to complete the examination of these measures, no closing hours are provided for both sessions. Therefore, the information on the incidents in Rome and the session of question time will not take place. Next week's timetable provides for the follow-up to the examination of the draft law on environmental crimes and the trafficking of organs intended for transplantation, as well as the discussion of the draft law on corruption. In the week from 10 to 12 March, in addition to the possible follow-up of the unfinished topics, the following draft laws will be examined: ratification of the Hague Convention on the protection of minors; adoption of minors by foster families; short divorce; identification of members of the Forces of Order. The question time will be held at the afternoon session on Thursday 12 March.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u5	The Conference of the Leaders took note of the failure of the requirements for the existence of the Parliamentary Group Chosen Civic for Italy, pursuant to article 14, paragraph 6, of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the program of the Senate's work for the months of January, February and March 2015: - Drawing of Law No 1209 - Amendments to the Law of 4 May 1983, No 184, concerning the adoption of minors by the foster families - Drawing of Law No 1504 and related - Provisions on the dissolution or cessation of the civil effects of marriage as well as of communion between spouses (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u7	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups also adopted by a majority - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - amendments to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 12 March: [[Wednesday, February 25 pom. h. 16,30 - Following bill no. 1749 - Decree-Law No. 4, exemption IMU agricultural land (final vote by 25 February) (It falls on 25 March) Thursday 26 February ant. h. 9.30 - Drawing of law n. 1779 - Decree-Law n. 192, extension of time (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 1 March)]] Amendments to bill No 1779 (Decree-Law No 192, extension period) should be tabled no later than 5 p.m. on Wednesday 25 February. [[Tuesday, March 3, pom. h. 16,30-20 - Follow-up to bill n. 1345 and related - Crimes against the environment (adopted by the Chamber of Deputies) - Follow-up to bill n. 922 - Trafficking organs intended for transplantation - Drawing of law n. 19 and related - Rules on corruption Wednesday 4 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 5 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 5 March pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 19 and related rules on corruption will be set in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday, March 10 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Eventually followed unconcluded arguments - Drawing of law n. 1209 - Adoption of minor by foster families - Drawing of law n. 1504 and related - Short divorce (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 803 - Identification of belonging to Forces of the order (made precisely by the Mixed Group pursuant to article 53, paragraph 3, of the Regulation) Wednesday 11 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 12 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday, March 12 pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] Amendments to draft law no. 1552 and connected (Ratification of the Aja Convention for the Protection of Minors), 1209 (Adoption of Minors by foster families) and 1504 and related (Short Divorce) must be submitted by 5 p.m. on Thursday 5 March. The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No 803 (identification belonging to the Forces of Order) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1749 (Decree-Law No 4 - IMU Exemption of agricultural land) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 34' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. 3' M5S 47' AP (NCD-UDC) 47' Mixed 41' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 34' LN-Aut 33' GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI) 33' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1779 (Decree-Law No 192 - Extension of time limits) (6 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 30' Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 4 and 30', of which: PD 1 h. 7' FI-PdL XVII 45' M5S 33' AP (NCD-UDC) 33' Mixed 29' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 25' LN-Aut 24' GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI) 24' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u10	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, at the Conference of the Leaders, we might have been able to adopt the timetable unanimously today, but - once again - we are obliged to point out to this House that it was, in our opinion, absolutely inappropriate to amend the timetable, in the sense that the information provided by the Minister of the Interior (which, moreover, had been indicated for 6 p.m. not by the opposition, but - I imagine - by the majority and the presidency of the Senate) has actually been deleted. It was not intended to accept the opposition's proposals to move it perhaps by an hour or an hour and a half, in order to examine first the amendments to the IMU Decree-Law. For the truth, we consider it quite serious that, although the presence of Minister Alfano is expected, there is instead the Vice-Minister Bubbico. We also consider it serious that, in the face of such serious facts as those which occurred in Rome, it was not necessary to maintain the information (so the Minister's communications) and the possibility for the Groups to at least express their thoughts. Mr President, frankly, I find this absolutely serious. I do not know if Minister Alfano was afraid of the Senate Chamber, having already delegated this task to the Deputy Minister. It is certain, however, that once again the opportunity is lost to make the Senate express itself and also to obtain elements of evaluation from the Minister of the Interior, in order to be able to express a more accomplished judgment. I also think it is quite serious - and I am sorry that you are the chair, Mr Calderoli - because I repeat that the majority and the Government have done everything by themselves in establishing the beginning of the information at 6 p.m. The timetable is changed once again because we have been under-anticipated: there will have been the usual mess, the opinions and the technical reports have not arrived in time and therefore we move on with this approximation. But be careful, because this approximation cannot be blamed on the opposition, so every time we ask for something, trying to make common sense proposals, we are accused of obstructionism. In the specific case - this is a manual case - the majority did it all by themselves. I therefore propose that Minister Alfano's information be kept on schedule at 7 p.m., as we had proposed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It's very clear, Senator De Petris.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u13	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, what is happening is within the limits of the surreal: is there really something to be disappointed when we hear in the Conference of Leaders that the Minister of the Interior is not coming, but in the end what happened? I wouldn't have expected that from the New Right Center Leader. Or when it is said that no one was harmed at all, that Vice-Minister Bubbico could come, to replace the Minister, and that even if the information took place next week it would not change anything. Are you kidding me? We asked for urgent information and we did not do it out of gratification, but because Italian citizens have the right to have clear details from the Minister of the Interior on his idea of managing the security of this country. We come to say that nothing serious has happened: we would miss it! After the fountain of the Barcaccia there are still all Piazza Navona and all the Colosseum to be disassembled. And if that's not enough, how many more monuments are there to take apart? But what do we have to wait for? That someone really gets hurt? Once again I wonder: why? Unless the Minister of the Interior is afraid, like a rabbit, to come to this House, because the North League has asked for his work. That's what we have to say to our faces. Today we do not have the opportunity to tell citizens to stay calm, because the management of security is in the hands of responsible people. The only image that we will give of this country abroad, for the umpteenth time, is the one that derives from an information that has been calendarized and whose time has been decided by that same majority that, subsequently, removes it from the calendar of the intense activities. Tomorrow the return game will be played and we are sure that our fans - Roma fans - will go to Holland and behave correctly, also because the law enforcement authorities will have had precise directives. Mr President, I am also saying this out of respect for law enforcement officers. What Minister is that you deny and do not come to this House to represent your own men, your own law enforcement? That's why we say to the majority: Just think about it! We do not have a problem with the debate until midnight or until 1 a.m., but the Minister of the Interior must come to this House to account for what has happened and, above all, to make sure that what has happened cannot be the basis of much more serious facts. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u14	So, to sum up, Senator Candiani, your position is identified with Senator De Petris' proposal? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). It is easily identified with the proposal of Senator De Petris, but even if the information began an hour later, it would be fine for us.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u17	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the wounds that have been inflicted on the city of Rome on the most violent and criminal side of the 6,000 Dutch fans have been seen on television and are before everyone's eyes. Tomorrow there will be the return match; as my previous colleague said, we all hope that nothing of the kind will happen and that the Italian fans - not only Romanists - will be able to be aligned with the civilization that our people have always demonstrated on many occasions. But I repeat that the fact that today it is not possible to carry out the Minister's information seems serious to me. We gave up the information today because we didn't want the story - nothing against Deputy Minister Bubbico - to be debriefed at a lower level than that of the Minister. I must point out, however, that we expected and hoped that during the hours that have passed since the Conference of Leaders until now it would be possible to establish the presence of the Minister next Tuesday at noon - this is the change in the timetable that I ask you - so that we can discuss here with Minister Alfano about the possible responsibilities not only of the Ministry, not only of the mayor, not only of the commissioner, not only of the perfect. What has happened in the city of Rome is absolutely unacceptable for a modern country like ours, that is that we have not been able, as in this case, to prevent what has happened. The mess we've witnessed can't help but have responsibilities. The quaestor's statements - at least this is my personal point of view - have left me disappointed: it is not possible to smuggle a dead person - as the quaestor said - with the possibility of making havoc and setting a city on fire, in its monuments that have 400 or 500 years of history. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I therefore believe that it is important and indeed fundamental that the Minister should come to this House, tell us exactly what happened, tell us how it was possible for a few hundred criminals to go against this city and how it was not possible to prevent this. I would add that these same criminals have been able to pay - as they said, with some slap in the face of Italian justice - a few thousand euros and have all returned to their country, probably not to do any harm in their country, because everything that has been allowed them here will certainly not be allowed there. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] The change in the timetable that I propose, therefore, is to set the information of Minister Alfano next Tuesday. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u20	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, today, when I read that Minister Alfano was scheduled to report on what happened in Rome last Thursday, I was happy... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u21	Senator Spousetti, what are you doing? Do you infiltrate the adverse areas? Please, Senator Taverna.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u22	TAVERNA (M5S). Senator Sposetti doesn't care what happened in Rome, probably, and what happened to Italy. On Thursday we had a demonstration that we really need to be frightened by what we hear, if in a city like Rome an interior minister was not able to avoid what was happening, despite the fact that the fans of this team had an incredible history, which clearly marked what their intentions would have been if they had gone on a trip to another city. The fans of the Feyenoord team were also guilty of a dead person in another situation, and hearing the prefect say that we were lucky because there was no dead person here makes me grab my skin. The fact that the Barcaccia was not only ruined on Thursday in the Spanish piazza also makes me grabbed by 500 people, who have been quietly wandering in our city, starting from the evening before. The night before, the same happened under the statue of Giordano Bruno in Campo de' Fiori. You must explain to us what Minister Alfano needs in order to realize that these people had to be escorted and that the city of Rome should not be allowed to be raped in this way; and not only that the Italian people should be made ridiculous in the eyes of the whole European Union, of the whole world. We are not able to manage anything anymore, and this is because we have to sit in an armchair as Minister of the Interior a character that serves exclusively to keep this Government standing, with thirty henchmen to vote on every measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]] This is the only reason why Minister Alfano is still Minister to this day. I am ashamed, sincerely, for those who hide behind other commitments and do not come to assume their responsibilities. I believe that the best action that Minister Alfano can do is to resign, as we have asked several times: when he does it it will never be too late. We are hopeful: do so, Minister. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u25	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I only take the floor to correct the reasons why the Conference of Leaders, albeit by a majority, approved the change in the timetable that you announced earlier. The request to suspend, for this afternoon, the communications of Minister Alfano was widely motivated and discussed, and he was right to arrive in the days of today and tomorrow at the conversion of two decree-laws, with the final vote of the measure on the IMU by tonight and of the decree-law thousandprorogages by tomorrow. The Government was present at the Conference of the Leaders and said it was willing to come to the Chamber to report on the very serious incidents in Rome. By sharing the analysis made by those who preceded me, last but not least by Senators Paolo Romani and Taverna, on the gravity of Roman accidents, I ask that this be done immediately after the approval of the two decree-laws. That is the reason why the Conference decided as you mentioned.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u26	I put first to the vote the proposal to change the calendar, made by Senator Paolo Romani, aimed at fixing for Tuesday 3 March at 12 noon the Government's information on the devastations caused in Rome by a group of Dutch fans, with the reminder for the presence of Minister Alfano. It's approved. The proposal to amend the timetable put forward by Senators De Petris and Candiani is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u27	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1749.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u28	Mr President, while certain details of this draft law will be dealt with during the debate on the amendments, we must accept all our opposition to the fact that the Government and the majority do not want to have access to the hypothesis that if we do not want to sing the de profundis of Italian agriculture we must absolutely eliminate this form of capital tax on agricultural land. We understand that the assets are in the DNA of the current majority, or rather a large part of it. I hope that a part that is traditionally not taxiola will deviate from it, but unfortunately I doubt that this can happen. We had a series of decree-laws, the last of which is this, which are certifying the end of Italian agriculture. The capital tax on agricultural land will bring down their value, just as the excessive IMU has brought down that of urban real estate. In addition, there is a series of absurd differentiations between the various soils, based on the only parameter of altitude. It is not possible to assess the possibility of taxing land, assuming that such an opportunity exists, according to its altimetric position. We have really returned to applying immediately post-feudal criteria; instead, I believe that in a modern society we should be able to understand what are the productive dynamics that should be encouraged and which ones can not be. On several occasions, by the opposition but also by the majority, we have overshadowed the opportunity for this decree-law to be dealt with more in the Committee on Agriculture than in the Committee on Finance. However, we find that the Minister for Agricultural Policy does not have much to do with this debate. One thing he did, and it was what he didn't have to do: put the signature on the presentation of this decree-law. In fact, he could have even pulled himself out of this massacre of Italian agriculture. I am talking about massacre, because the consequence of this measure will be the abandonment of the camps. The main aim is to exempt farmers and direct farmers, provided that they are covered by the agricultural insurance scheme. But those who know the social reality of our countryside know very well that very few are now enrolled in agricultural welfare. The vast majority, especially of direct farmers, are those who have worked in life and with their savings eventually bought a piece of land that they now cultivate even enjoying a minimum pension. Well, they will not be exempted, even if they are direct farmers, just as the craftsmen will not be, who continue to cultivate fields in the free moments of their activity, as well as other citizens will not be exempted, the same professionals who despite the absolute lack of income of the farms continue to invest part of their income in the maintenance of this activity. This government and this majority want to demolish Italian agriculture. We oppose and do so by saying that the IMU in agriculture should not be applied to a thousand per thousand. I have to acknowledge the work of the rapporteur, Senator Fornaro, and I understand that we have tried in every way to alleviate the effects of this measure, to find exemptions and cover schemes for which I shall speak a little more precisely. We have tried to intervene, but the intervention that can solve the enormous damage that is being produced on Italian agriculture is only one: completely eliminate this voice. Think of what Italian agriculture has undergone this year: the revaluation of cadastral incomes; the increase in excise duties on agricultural gas oil; the decrease in the quota of oil facilitated per hectare crop; the IMU of this measure and the consequences of the international treaties that see the indiscriminate arrival of non-European products on national markets, products not guaranteed from the point of view of health consistency and quality. It has suffered and continues to suffer a series of measures and when it comes to intervening with a small incentive or relief for agriculture, the sums are found in the funds of the same Ministry of Agricultural Policy: it is a dog that bites its tail. I cannot forget that during the examination of the law of stability, while having to increase employment in our country, agriculture has been excluded from the facilitations on new recruitments. A sector that perhaps showed signs of anti-cyclicality such as agriculture, especially with its exports of products of excellence, has not been able to benefit from the decontribution on new recruitments. And when we managed to get this principle across during the debate, the government's response was that some predictions can also be made, but by withdrawing funds from incentives for youth entrepreneurship in agriculture. This is perhaps also plausible, because young people in agriculture do not go away anymore. None of our young people are interested in agricultural production; except for very rare cases of particular inventiveness, in the vast majority of cases young people, even if they belong to families traditionally linked to agricultural production, escape from the fields. They run away because there is no more profitability, they run away because there is no longer the possibility of looking strategically at the future and not even looking optimistically at the future. Colleagues, I would then like to appeal to you and, during the examination of the amendments, I will specify further in what terms. The appeal is that this tax on agriculture should not be imposed, because it is a genuine Marxist asset, that is to say, to strike property as such and not as it can produce income; that is also why we have supported the preliminary question of constitutionality. This tax is all the opposite of what Italian agriculture needs. Allow me also to mention a very small reference to the cover profiles for some exemptions that the Government proposes. Once again, part of these covers are found within the funds of the Ministry of Agriculture. I would also like to point out the approval of the total exemption of agricultural land in the smaller islands, which responds to a need for fairness, given the transport difficulties faced by producers on those islands in order to then be able to market their products. At the limit of these small interventions, however, resources of relevance to the special reserve fund were used for the rest. Here I write another record to the Renzi Government: in February the reserve fund, as it tells us the same Government, it's sold out. Some of us have also been local administrator and know what the reserve fund is, available, in the case of the local administration, the mayor or the president of the Province. This fund should be allocated by twelfths, because it can happen during the year of unforeseen events to which an administration has to cope (and therefore also a government). We in February, two months after the beginning of 2015, already have the official certification that, between the milleproroghe and this measure, the special reserve fund is exhausted. I wonder if this is a good administration practice. Then I say that there is something else that the President of the Council should refrain from doing, in addition to the negative comments on Parliament, as he did yesterday speaking from France. It should also refrain from talking about growth: in this country only taxes grow, ladies and gentlemen, the only growth we are witnessing is that of taxes. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] It is not true that we do not talk about growth in Europe, because all other European countries, even if in a limited way, have marked their growth. On the other hand, we continue to mark an absolute stasis of our economy and, after this measure, we will signal a very strong decline also of the agricultural comparative. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u29	Senator Bertuzzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u30	Mr President, I am opening my speech by reassuring most of the senators who have spoken by reminding the Agriculture Commission of the failure to grant this measure. I believe that it should be assigned to the Finance Committee, because this decree is the result of an error in a ministerial decree of the MEF, issued on 28 November. This did not prevent the Committee on Agriculture from working; President Formigoni's speech detailed it and presented the opinion he had delivered after a major debate within our Commission. This opinion has made a number of comments, which have been incorporated into most of the rapporteur's and Commission's amendments. I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, the reasons why some political forces have thought of prejudicing or calling for suspensive action. I believed the opposite, because, as in this case, it was precisely the parliamentary action that determined the issuing of this decree to change the content of that much criticized ministerial decree. We have tabled urgent questions, agendas until, fortunately, the introduction into the law of stability of the extension to 26 January, which led us to the measure under discussion today. The path has been determined strongly by Parliament, at the very initiative of the Agriculture Commissions of the two Houses, but also by many other Members. I think we would never have agreed that a decree-law would not come in and give an answer after the deadline of 26 January. It was we who asked the Government for a confrontation, and it was a constant confrontation, which today corrected many of the defects that were contained in the Ministerial Decree of 28 November. That is why I would like to give a few figures, also to reinforce the numbers that have been given a little roughly in the course of this debate. The exemption of partially mountainous land has been recovered; it was not the same as the ICI's exemption, but the recovery of the 200 euro exemption in the other part of the municipalities indicates that 80% of farms in those territories will be exempted from the IMU tax. It means that 80% returns to the pre-existing regime on 28 November. What I would have liked to see in the debate in this House is another thing: to make clear in depth what are the reasons why we felt that the measure of 28 November was wrong. If the error was limited to the absurdity of the altimetric criterion of the municipal residence, then I say that the error has been corrected; but I do not believe that these are the reasons for the rejection, at least by the Democratic Party, in the sense that they are deeper. If we think this, our work does not end today with the approval of this decree. If it is thought that it was wrong because it was inconsistent with the ratio of the laws that this Parliament has promulgated in previous years, starting with the federal reform of the fiscal delegation, the reform of the land register, in the constant attempt to recover those elements of iniquity, then I believe that our work will have to continue. What are the elements of iniquity that remain? The iniquity which we do not want to subject ourselves to was that this tax was borne by a quarter of the municipalities of this territory. Is it conceivable that a national tax would affect 2,000 of the 8,000 municipalities and that the total load was on the shoulders of those territories alone? Iniquity I believe there has also been an inability to take into account the contributory capacity of individuals. Many of you have recalled the ICI's 1992 founding law. That system contained in itself a balance and a gradual sharing. When moving from taxation of real estate in mountain areas to plain areas, account was taken of the discomfort, but also of the reduced ability to produce income, placing a roof that was then quantified in 2,400 lire. This has gradually disappeared and the underlying reasons lie in the fact that the assessment of the tax base, i.e. cadastral income and dominical income, has become approximate. How many of you, even in meetings with companies operating in the plain, continue to detect the inconsistency between land such as vineyards, which have a market value of 500,000-600,000 euros and are exempted from paying any contribution, and plain land that is experiencing uncomfortable situations and continue to see in fact the lack of a limited franchise? The iniquity therefore lies also and mainly in the cadastral values and in the asset values that correspond to now anachronistic and unacceptable estimates. I believe that the postponement to 26 January was a due act, but it was not as obvious that the Government heard the requests made during the work carried out in the Finance Committee on the initiative of the many Members of Parliament. During these days there has also been a lot of reflection within the Groups in order to arrive at a sustainable proposal for the municipalities, for the enterprises, for the system as a whole. I believe that the very positive element that emerges from this debate is the fact that we have called into question the idea that partnership was linked exclusively to the altitude of the land: altitude is a real and important issue, but it cannot be the only appropriate criterion. That is why we have tabled an agenda, and I have heard that the Government has already accepted it in the Commission. We need to bring the whole thing back to the issue of general taxation and local tax, but we need to do it by getting to share a principle of equity. I believe that there are conditions for further discussion. The different positions are born precisely because inside each of us there is a different idea of equity. I believe that fairness should not correspond to the granting of the exemption to a single production sector as such, which would once again reproduce the marginalisation of a sector that is reacting. I do not believe that equity should correspond to exclusive participation on the basis of altitude; I do not believe that equity can be independent of the real contribution capacity of individuals; I do not believe that equity can lead to continuing to behave as if the values of the tax base were not anachronistic. If we, in relation to this, use this year to discuss and define what we mean by equity, I believe that we will eventually be able to recover those elements of iniquity that are still present in IMU taxation. For us equity means that those who have the most must contribute to a higher degree, regardless of the altitude at which the land is located. For us equity means recognizing the role that agriculture plays in the country and its conditions of difficulty, but those difficulties must also be recognized in other sectors that experience similar hardships; that the revision of the cadastral extimes must be the essential basis of an assessment in order to overcome the disparities between similar and contiguous soils, but subject to differentiated taxation. We must also remember that if this is to be the tax that gives autonomy to local authorities, we cannot think that there are A- or B-series autonomy and at the same time we cannot imagine that our country will become a jungle of rates. That is why we call on the Government to make a commitment, and we do so by offering our contribution within the relevant parliamentary committees, to bring this debate back into a more general reflection. Allow me, at the end of my speech, to make a final thought which I commend and respect to my colleague, Senator Ruvolo, who is with me in the 9th Commission. I say to my colleague that we are well aware of the structural difficulties in the sector, which we deal with every day and every week; we know how necessary instruments are to ensure that our land is not abandoned, that activity in the primary sector and in agri-food becomes attractive to young people, and we also know how difficult it is to maintain Parliament's interest in the issues of agriculture, which seems to be mobilizing only when there are issues as effective as the one we are dealing with today. But we must also, dear friend Ruvolo, bring out from this debate that agriculture and agri-food are also made by companies that have accepted the challenge, that have made investments, that have made innovation and that earn income and that today make an important contribution to the GDP of this country. Let us therefore give this sector, also we who deal with it, that dignity, that vision of strength, reaction, drive and drive to the recovery of this country that has already demonstrated that it has had in these years of difficult crisis. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u31	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u32	Mr President, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for the debate and for the debate, which is at times passionate. I have to say that, after some dialectical excess, I believe that real issues have been raised, that they will have to find a solution again during this year, having, as I recalled in the introductory report, the local tax 2016. Many of the issues that have been raised, as I said, are real: both the question of altimetry and the overall question of the revision of the criteria (on which an agenda has been presented that I believe will be worth the valorization, thanks to the availability of the Government); then there is the theme of the downgrading that will have to be done compared to many lands that still result for the land register with old crops; there is the theme of the gerbido. There are, in short, issues that are obviously crossed and that need to be deepened. I just give figures, but I think they give the sense of the work done by both the Government and the Commission. After the ministerial decree of 26 November, almost 1,500 municipalities had remained to be totally exempted; after the decree-law today in conversion had risen to about 3,500 municipalities totally mountainous and to 655 municipalities partially mountainous; with the work of the Commission and thanks to the availability of the Government, we added about 1,600 municipalities of the so-called disadvantaged hill, on which it will be worth the deduction. They seem to me to be important numbers to emphasize. I shall conclude by making a proposal to the Presidency, the President of the Marino Finance Commission and the President of the Formigoni Agriculture Commission. I believe that the debate has revealed the need to deepen the field of taxation in agriculture and my proposal is to promote a joint survey of the two Commissions on this subject. I believe that it could be a useful tool for deepening and I also believe that it will improve, in the perspective, of course, to give force to the primary sector with the main objective that in the end all those who have spoken have proposed, that is, to support the agriculture of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u33	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in the Annex to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u34	Mr President, I rise to explain amendment 1,202, which seeks to abolish that part of the regulation of the decree-law that we are about to convert which provides for taxation on agricultural land. The financial coverage of EUR 359,5 million from the year 2015 I have identified it by corresponding use of the resources of the fund referred to in Article 615 of Legislative Decree no. 66 of 15 March 2010 for the financing of the F-35 programme. The IMU in fact procures revenues of 359,5 million euros that can be compensated by giving up in small part (just reduce the production of three units out of 90) to military investments in my opinion questionable and however very onerous, like the case of the production of aircraft fighters F-35. Moreover, the fund for the F-35 can be refilled during the year, since there is not that hurry that there is for the IMU, whose down payment for 2015 must be paid in June next, so it happens that in March 2015 the farmer pays it for the year 2014 and that in June, after less than three months, must pay the down payment for 2015. Of course, if the government wanted to change the coverage by rewording the amendment, I would say yes. I repeat, so the Government will also be able to listen to me, because there was certainly no motion against the Minister of Defence, anything else: if the Government wanted to change the coverage, redrafting the amendment, I would certainly say yes. What are the reasons, briefly, for which I and the more than forty colleagues who have signed this amendment have imagined that we are going to be exempt from the IMU? There is no doubt that an important first step forward has been taken in the Commission, with the agreement of the Government, with which - as the rapporteur has pointed out - a deduction of 200 euros is also made for non-mountain areas, having already provided for exemption for mountain areas and those that are partially exempt only in the case of direct farmers and agricultural and professional entrepreneurs. However, the sector of the food supply chains is one of the few that drive the economic recovery, providing important numbers for the Italian export, that in the year of Expo 2015, that we are about to inaugurate, asks to increase its ability to make new investments, in order to resist to the globalization and the necessity of internationalization of our enterprises. As set out above, the IMU tax formula - as the rapporteur has also said, calling for an in-depth investigation of all taxation and has reminded Senator Bertuzzi - does not, however, take into account the profitability of the land, precisely because in some territories, even partially mountainous, it knows productions much more profitable than those of the non-mountain territories, resulting in this same, but not only, unfair, without taking into account also the disadvantaged areas or those that have a difficulty, not due to the inability of business, but external factors. In conclusion, Mr President, the total exemption for 2015 together represents an injection of confidence for the whole agri-food sector and saves the budgets of the Italian municipalities in serious difficulty for the collection of the IMU, waiting, of course, to reach the local tax, which is and may be a more appropriate and fair instrument, which will succeed in removing those forms of iniquity. I therefore maintain this amendment, despite the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, which I honestly do not understand. I therefore announce to the Presidency that I will insist on the vote and ask for the support of my colleagues, when we arrive at this amendment, to vote on it as it is, subject to the willingness to change it, if the Government gives me a new cover, precisely for the profiles of iniquity that - I repeat - can be eliminated by a local tax since 2016. Finally, for the remarks that I have heard, I wonder if with the Letta Government we have failed to choose the path of exemption or if instead this has been the strategic choice of those who believe that agriculture and food supply chains are the engine to guarantee the recovery to our country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u35	Mr President, I would like to explain amendment 1,200, which makes a very clear proposal and which, I believe, provides for cover. It is an amendment identical to that of Senator D'Alì and proposes - and, therefore, we ask the Government, the majority and the rapporteur to reflect on this amendment - the total exemption of the IMU for agricultural land. The reasons are very clear, as far as we are concerned. This decree-law is true that a little' improved compared to the mess done previously with the ministerial decree: it has increased the number of municipalities that are exempted, but it remains the fact that our agriculture is certainly not going through a good time. I would like to remind you of the question time we had last week with the Minister for Agriculture, Martina, on the whole dramatic crisis in the dairy sector. It is precisely in this situation so difficult that we need that the agricultural sector can have a chance not only of recovery, but can be more and more the flagship of our country; otherwise, we cannot understand what the Expo represents. The Expo represents our quality agriculture and excellence, but if we do not just want to do a facade operation and, once again, pure propaganda, we need the concrete tools to enable our farmers to survive. The agricultural fabric of our country and the many Italian agricultures present a particular situation: the utilized agricultural area (SAU) is among the lowest in Europe and, therefore, we speak in general of small property. We have had very serious phenomena in recent years: I am thinking of my region, where the number of farms that have closed is very high and where there have also been phenomena of grabbing, unfortunately, also on the part of organized crime. There is a strong need to put in place tools that allow not to say survive but to help the sector concretely and make sure that farmers can continue to exist in our country. Otherwise you can't really understand what we're talking about. The exemption of the agricultural IMU, repeated promise and bounced government in government, is a concrete instrument. We find ourselves in some situations where actually income is even lower than the IMU that must be paid. Therefore, the proposal for an exemption cannot, in our view, be cleared with cover problems. On the cover we make a clear and precise proposal to eliminate another trouble that is being tried and, indeed, that with the unlock Italy we started on a motorway in that direction. We propose to cover the IMU exemption by increasing annual fees for oil exploration and research permits. Mr President, the figures speak for themselves: this proposal would make it possible to ensure that Italian agriculture and, above all, our farmers are able to survive. Maybe we could also avoid giving a gift to those who want to transform our seas, the most beautiful places in our country, with a series of oil platforms. Yesterday we addressed this issue in the context of the review of the environmental crime measure and I hope that a favourable outcome will be achieved. What's going on in our minds? We organize the Expo, where we showcase our beauties and our agriculture. Our agriculture also has its added value in the landscape and beauty of our rural landscape. The future, for many parts of our country, is linked to the possibility of tourism and, therefore, to increase it more and more. Instead, with the measure unlocks Italy, in addition to favors to motorway dealers, we do a favor and a really huge gift to those who want to come to destroy our seas. The Mediterranean is a closed sea and has a very delicate ecosystem: those who are doing this operation therefore know perfectly that they are going towards another environmental and economic disaster. I repeat: it should at least be an element of good administration to do the operation of increasing the fees, because we are doing this giving and really derisory canons. I think this is a perfectly reasonable and sensible proposal. It is regrettable, once again, that the Minister for Agriculture is not there and that only the Minister for Finance is present. I am really wondering if anyone is interested in saving Italian agriculture or - on the other hand - just making big pavilions at the Expo, where obviously they always work the same and certainly not our farmers. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment 1,27 calls for the correction of a distortion which would prevent access to facilities with regard to municipalities which, although not totally mountainous, are surrounded by mountain municipalities. Entrepreneurs working in this context suffer from the same problems as mountain areas: a lack of connections and infrastructure. Entrepreneurship, at times, is also hampered by the absence of broadband; we know what are the problems in which entrepreneurs are operating in land that is sometimes marginal, but in any case in a situation where they already pay a higher price than others. There are very few situations in this particular case, so much so that the cost of this equivalence, which is also due, has been estimated at EUR 10 million. I repeat: EUR 10 million which have been adequately covered in the amendment. Therefore, in view of the small cost and the fact that the rule has its own general rationality in a measure which - I remember - should have already had to provide for far greater equity measures for a long time, I ask the representative of the Government to express a willingness to do so, in addition to the declared willingness to accept the Commission's agenda. Therefore, not a declaration of intent, but a precise commitment from the outset, which does not cost much, but represents a testimony, if we really want to give the mountain what is due to it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u37	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1,34 which in some respects is very similar to that just explained by Senator Endrizzi. It covers a group of municipalities belonging to the category of "partly mountain" and adjacent only to mountain municipalities, i.e. surrounded by them. They are therefore municipalities that can represent, in order to understand us, a territorial enclave. The proposal is very simple and is also based on a recent research that I have carried out, so in the national territory we are in the presence of about ten such situations and not more. It is about ten positions, which among other things does not pose any problems of coverage: they are mainly small and very small Municipalities, so the coverage is really ridiculous. In my amendment, however, I feel that I have indicated that there is absolutely adequate coverage, and I therefore ask that the House speak in favour of it. Therefore, beyond the agenda approved in the Commission, which I endorse in general terms, I think it is appropriate to move immediately to an application phase and therefore extend the total exemption also to partially mountainous municipalities, which are entirely bordered by mountain municipalities.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u38	With the amendments tabled by the 5 Star Movement, we call for the total exemption from the payment of the IMU for all agricultural land, referring in particular to all those areas affected by atmospheric events and recognised natural disasters. In this regard, we refer, as far as Puglia is concerned, to the Gargano and also to the bacterium killer of xylella, which has strongly affected agricultural land and for which an extraordinary commissioner has also been appointed. For those land and crops that suffer from such problems or that need to be protected, we call for exemption. Among other things, in the Committee on Agriculture, on the occasion of the discussion of the decree-law, which will be examined tomorrow in the Assembly, it was discovered, by voice of the Undersecretary, that if the Government wants, the funds find them. Let me give you an example: a sum is paid to the horse sector which has been recovered from the tax credit. All right, no one has anything to object to. However, there is a question as to why the Government has managed to find funds and cover for the horse, as far as the horse sector is concerned, and why it is unable to find the system to meet the farmers who are constantly vexed by these absurd taxes. I expect a response from the Government, which will be comprehensive and can give satisfaction to all those people who today continue to show their discomfort and whose situation should instead be re-evaluated. As we know, the agricultural sector should be the sector of excellence. Foods are primary goods, which the Italian Government and the Italian State should protect, and instead we think of killing this sector more and more. Turning back to our amendments, we call once again and loudly for the exemption from payment of this tax. I also recall that, during the discussion of the motion on the Gargano, the Government itself, as well as the majority parties, accepted five points, one of which was precisely to assess with commitment and give a clear signal to the agricultural sector, in order to meet its needs. Well, I would ask the majority parties to still consider - not on paper, but in practice - this possibility. I ask them to meet those people who daily struggle to bring bread home. And I am referring to all those who today, throughout Italy and here in Rome, have come to the square. We are also calling for the possibility of checking the cover and of avoiding the issuing of pro-European decrees, which will lead nowhere but to incite even more farmers and place them in the condition of having to abandon the land to be cultivated. Above all, we ask that farmers themselves, taken from the need, should not be in a position to sell off their land to the best bidder. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u39	Mr President, I would like to make two amendments which I regret that in the Commission they have received, in my opinion, little attention, in an unmotivated way. The first is Amendment 1.37. We imagined that it was common sense to have an exemption from the payment of the IMU for the land on which a natural disaster occurred. Again, logic and common sense would lead to sharing and unanimous voting. And I am not referring to an area of the country - I could say, for example, Gargano - but to an overall concept. In a territory like ours, whose fragility is increasingly put to the test by violent precipitation or by what comes from the hydrogeological failure, we cannot subject those lands also to the constraint and obligation of the payment of an asset, because in fact the IMU is such. The exemption would therefore serve to avoid the abandonment of entire land, for which it would be desirable to provide relief from the payment of a tax, which would otherwise hide the mask of a mockery. The other amendment is 1.41. In this case we would like to provide for the exemption from the levy in question for the land affected by the spread of xylella, i.e. that phenomenon now known to the national chronicles, which is currently investing in my region, Puglia, which concerns the desiccation of olive trees. We would like to further decline in concrete action to help the land haunted by the bacterium killer. This is an amendment whose logic is clear and does not require further explanation. Its acceptance by the Government would be the confirmation of an acquired awareness of an emergency that is currently experiencing agriculture in Apulia, but that can turn into a national emergency. It cannot be allowed that a territory affected by such a serious epidemic is further vexed by a paradoxical tribute, considering the productive impossibility, because on those land cannot be produced and, therefore, the rent of the land concerned. I believe that this is a common sense reasoning, while waiting for more organic criteria to be established, so as to ensure that these territories also receive the necessary compensation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u40	Mr President, I declare the withdrawal of Amendments Nos 1,100 and 1,115, as well as the G1.4 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u41	Mr President, I would like to explain the amendment 1.63, which I think is more necessary than ever. Today we are faced with a very sudden measure in all its substance, of which aspects have emerged related to the fact that absolutely no account has been taken of the role of agriculture in our country. No account has been taken of the problems of renting and comfortable in the family, nor of the role played by farmers in the preservation, protection and conservation of the environment and, above all, of the fact that the farmer is an entrepreneur, where the enterprise is also the family. My amendment is aimed at extending the exemption which the measure recognises only for land at a certain altitude, showing absolute blindness to all others, including those even below sea level. There is a very clear ranking, which, by means of the European Community Regulation No 1305, defines the less-favoured areas, i.e. areas which have already been the subject of aid from the European Community, which the measure in question does not take into account at all. This is a big gap. The decree-law under consideration is an epitaph that does not praise a deceased, but denounces a void, that is the absolute lack of sensitivity towards the Italian agricultural world. It denounces a lack of knowledge or, even worse, a menophregism towards Italian agriculture. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u42	Mr President, I would like to explain the only amendment I have signed, relating to the terms of the payment, which we were able to establish on 10 February. It, together with the request made in the Commission by an audit, proposed an extension to 16 June for the repentance of those who, although having paid within the time limits laid down, have committed an error of calculation due to the vagueness and uncertainty of the rate to be applied. In these cases, the request for the amendment is not to proceed with sanctions by accepting a compensatory payment by the date of 16 June, which is usually the date on which both agricultural and buildings are paid. It is therefore a matter of giving this advantage. I have seen that the Commission has also adopted an amendment which brings the deadlines from 10 February to 31 March. According to the amendment I tabled, it should go beyond 16 June, perhaps providing, at least for this particular case of taxpayers who paid in time, a smaller figure, considering that it was a mere miscalculation. It is called for to have some tolerance given the particular situation and the rather complex process of the various deadlines shifted from 26 January to 10 February, and also given the uncertainty about the same calculation. I believe that this is due to the citizens who have to pay. As I said before, it is a solicitation coming from the Legaautonomie, audited in the Senate, which proposed this as one of the most reasonable requests. [[Applause from Senator Bell.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u43	Mr President, I have tabled several amendments, and I will try to use some of your bonomy to take some time. When Parliament is deprived of its legislative function, it is also necessary to use these small devices to see an important political debate on an extremely important issue such as the current one. I was reminded of a small lord of Morbegno, Ezio Vanoni, in the 1950s Minister of this Republic, who argued that when the rules ask the taxpayer citizen to contribute more than his residual capacity, they are immoral. We have debated a lot these days on constitutional or unconstitutional issues, but I believe that this rule is immoral for many reasons. And I address the Undersecretary Zanetti, also because I fought with him in the same Group that brought us to Parliament and I remember very well that we were called to this experience also to reduce public spending. This rule is immoral for many reasons, but I will try to remember two. With regard to the first, public finance allocated 10 billion, which was used to distribute the 80 euros which, in my vision, were nothing more than one of those attempts to corrupt the electoral vote of the Europeans. [[Applause from the LAG, LN-Aut and Senator Rizzotti Groups]] That being said, if citizens are then called upon to compensate for the investments that a written public finance has made, the damage also becomes a mockery. In my brief presence in the Committee on Agriculture, I was able to see a prestigious work, carried out by my colleague Mr Pignedoli, in which we do a survey of the agencies working for the Ministry of Agriculture. I would point out to my fellow Undersecretary that there are about 8,000 employees in these agencies, most of whom have managerial functions. The cost of this mega structure is around three billion euros. But, two years later, I have not yet seen any intervention to reduce public expenditure. If, as a reduction in public spending, we have to be content with the fact that two public cars have been sold to you or that you as Undersecretary, in the most absolute paradoxism of the demagogic measures, have been removed, I believe that this type of finance does not go anywhere. To ask today 360 million euros to professionals and operators in the agricultural sector means to bring down one of those entrepreneurial systems that, in recent years, has resisted the crisis better. If this is the Government's commitment, I would point out to you, Mr Undersecretary, that perhaps it would be better to check whether conditions still exist to remain in this Government. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI) LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u44	Colleagues, perhaps it has escaped the most that today we must vote on 140 amendments, make explanations of vote and proceed to the final vote. And we have to do it by tonight. So let each one adjust accordingly, because it seems to me that we have taken her a bit in joy. The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u45	I am against Amendments 1.1, 1.200 and 1.2. On Amendments 1,201, 1.4, 1.3, 1.5, 1.202, 1.6, 1.8, 1.9, 1.10, 1.11, 1.20, 1.21, 1.12, 1.13, 1.23, 1.14, 1.15, 1.16, 1.17, 1.18, 1.19, 1.24, 1.203, 1.27, 1.28 and 1.29, the Budget Commission's opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution was rejected. I repeat Amendment 1.26: the new text 2 accepts the Commission's comments on the budget and amends its coverage from EUR 2.4 million to EUR 2 million, in view of the fact that some of the smaller islands were already included in the mountain regions from a later check. On amendments 1.25, 1.30, 1.31, 1.32, 1.33, 1.34, 1.35, 1.36, 1.37, 1.38, 1.38, 1.39, 1.40, 1.41, 1.42, 1.43 and 1.44, the Budget Commission's opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution was rejected. I am in favour of amendment 1,1000. On amendments 1.48, 1.49, 1.51, 1.52, 1.53, 1.54, 1.55, 1.55, 1.56, 1.57, 1.58, 1.59, 1.60 and 1.61, the Budget Commission's opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution was rejected. On Amendment 1.62 I call on the authors to turn it into an agenda, on which there is a willingness to give a favourable opinion. On amendments 1.63 to 1.74 there is the opposite opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. I call on the proposers to withdraw amendment 1.75, otherwise the opinion is against it. On Amendments Nos 1.76 and 1.77 there is the opposite opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. I make a call for the withdrawal of Amendment No 1.78 because the reimbursement is included in a Commission amendment. Amendment 1.79 was rejected by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution. I am in favour of amendment 1.45 (text 2) while on amendments 1.80 and 1.81 there is the opposite opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. I call on the proposers to withdraw Amendments Nos 1,82 to 1,91 as they are absorbed by the amendment by the Commission, which sets the date for the moratorium on 31 March. On Amendments Nos 1,93 to 1,97 there is the opposite opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. On Amendment 1,98 I call on the proposers to withdraw, because this is also part of the reasoning about the non-application of sanctions and default interests. The same applies to the following amendment 1.99. I am in favour of Amendments Nos 1,101 and 1,102 (text 2) and I call for the withdrawal of Amendment No 1,103 because it is also absorbed by another amendment. On Amendment 1,206 there is the opposite opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, while the opinion is in favour of Amendment 1,104. On Amendment 1,105 there is the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. I am in favour of Amendments Nos 1,107 and 1,108 (text 2). I call on the authors to withdraw Amendments Nos 1,112, 1,113 and 1,114 because the subject is covered by Commission amendments. On Amendments Nos 1,117 and 1,115 there is the opposite opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, while Amendment No 1,116 - in our view - is also absorbed by Amendment No 1,107 and, therefore, I call for a withdrawal. On Amendments 1,118 and 1,207 there is the opposite opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. As regards the agenda, I am opposed to the adoption of the G1.1, while the opinion is in favour of the G1.2. On the G1.3 call for withdrawal, because it raises a question which has been raised in the amendments. The opinion is opposed to G1.5, while on G1.100 it is in favour, provided that it is reworded in the sense of committing the Government to consider whether to adopt it. On the agenda, Mr G1,101 and Mr G1,102, the opinion was in favour of the adoption. On Amendment 1.0.1 there is the opposite opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. I am in favour of amendments 1.0.1000, while calling for the withdrawal of amendments 1.0.2 and 1.0.4. On amendments 1.0,200 and 1.0,201 there is the opposite opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u46	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u49	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to remind you that this morning I sent a note of amendments to which I added my signature. Therefore, in passing the amendments, even though they were withdrawn from the first signatory, I would like you to take account of my signature in order to be able to vote on them if necessary. In the same way, I will also ask you to vote on a number of amendments which have the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission, which may seem to be a dismay on the part of a member of the Budget Commission, but in fact I believe that a few minor cuts under Article 81 of the Constitution would result in far less damage to the country than the introduction of the IMU in agriculture. I should therefore like to ask you not to go over the proposed amendments too quickly with the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission or those withdrawn from other Members.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u50	Colleagues, having to proceed to the vote and believing to interpret the request of Senator D'Alì, but also the previous one of Senator Ruta, if I have no different indications, I will verify the support and I will also put to the vote the amendments with an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I say this because there are no misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u53	GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1, which is identical to Amendment 1,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u56	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I take advantage of this first explanation of vote to say that, although analytically examined, my Group will vote in favour of all the amendments that remove the IMU from the agricultural sector and, in the alternative, for all those that restrict its application. Having said that, I also address my colleagues from all the groups, including the majority groups, who have put forward proposals for the elimination of the IMU in agriculture, many of which have been censored by the Budget Commission for lack of coverage or inadequate coverage. Amendment 1.1, which I signed, was considered appropriate in the covers and, therefore, I would ask that it be voted on. The cover I point out is very simple. I propose that the abolition of the IMU in agriculture be covered by the increase in the state fees for exploration, research, cultivation (the elegance of the term also applies to the agricultural sector) and oil drilling. In order to make known to you how our government is now dealing with these events, I will give you a comparison term which also applies to agricultural areas. Currently the state property fees established in 1996 for these activities range from 2.56 euro cents to a maximum of 20 euros per 100 hectares of state property land, including coastal deposits on state property. Try asking an operator of bathing establishments - and here there are so many defenders of those activities - what they pay for a square metre of state property concession on our coasts, or for a square metre of sea nearby, on our coasts. Therefore, the adjustment I am asking for is absolutely ridiculous with regard to the value of those undertaken. But we had a taste last night in this House, with you, Mr President, involuntary witness, of what it means to put your finger in the plague of state concessions or oil drilling. We have had the feeling that not only the Government - but this concerns the Commission - but also Parliament, in particular, is absolutely subject to the will of the oil companies. At a time when I, in dealing with environmental crimes, put the issue of prosecuting those who do not follow the Community directive in asking for authorisation for those events, it was the end of the day, so much so that the sitting has been suspended, even though it is already being voted on and explanations of vote have already been made on that subject. That is why I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, not to be so superficial in examining this subject. We have the possibility of exempting millions of citizens who own and, above all, conductors of small, medium and large farms, which therefore produce for the country, with a simple modification of state canons determined in figures that were ridiculous and firm in 1996. We have been told by the Government, during the examination of the law of stability, when it proposed the increase of these fees - be careful to note with what great severity - doubling the amount from 2.5 euros to 5 euros per 100 hectares of coastal land, sea or surface of the seabed of our seas, to do, among other things, operations that many of us, including myself, judge absolutely deadly for our environment. We have the opportunity, simply by adopting this amendment, to close all the discussions we have held so far. We have seen, and I have seen, colleagues from the Democratic Party and, above all, the rapporteur commendably looking in all ways for resources to soothe the definitive introduction of the IMU into agriculture, resources then taken away from other sectors, all of which certainly deserve assistance. Here we have a chance to do it in one shot. The rapporteur, Mr Fornaro, like Senator Bertuzzi, is so aware of the confusion in this matter and of the iniquities that in the end the solution found, with the approval of this decree-law, would continue to bring in the sector, to even propose the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry into the taxation of agriculture. However, it was said once - and I think it is said again - that while we are debating in Rome, Sagunto falls, my dear rapporteur: while we will discuss how to resettle taxation in agriculture, farmers will have already abandoned the fields and Italian agriculture will have already been voted on for desertification. I therefore call on my colleagues, and especially those who have proposed the total exemption from the IMU, to vote in favour of this amendment of mine, identical to that tabled by Senator De Petris - strange layison, dear senator, between two completely opposing views of society, but in this case united by a common noble objective - which we will vote with conviction. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u59	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of Amendment No 1.1 tabled by Senator D'Alì and to ask for it to be signed on behalf of myself and Senators Puglia and Castaldi. Senator D'Alì's initiative has far-reaching roots: it comes from the transposition of what the Norwegian State does, which is the leader in Europe, if not in the world, as regards the adaptation of the research fees, concession and exploration of oil and gas on land and at sea. The quotas proposed by Senator D'Alì are, in fact, perfectly in line with those envisaged by the Norwegian State and - as he himself recalled - considerably higher than those currently in force in Italy. In addition, I would like to remind my colleagues, especially the Democratic Party, that a bill proposed by the current Deputy Minister Bubbico, presented in 2009, intended to bring the concession quotas precisely to those figures, roughly, proposed by Senator D'Alì. That bill was lost in memory and was recovered by my Group with a bill at my first signature, the Senate Act 1135, along with other proposals made always in that legislature by Senator Vicari. I would also like to point out that, just as there was a moment of panic at the last sitting here in this House, there was one during the debate in the Commission on the stability and budgetary laws, when the government or the rapporteurs - I don't remember now, but so little change - tabled an amendment on the subject that wanted to bring the concession fee to the fantastic figure of EUR 100 per square kilometre. That amendment was withdrawn in the night, to my delight, because it was a hoax, against what we asked as a Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement, namely to adapt these figures to those of a leading country in the management of exploration and drilling activities - I remember it once again - Norway. The Deputy Minister justified himself by saying that it was the Government's intention to withdraw the amendment, because an organic act was planned that would arrive in the coming months. In fact - and here, of course, we are talking about things concerning the will of lobbyists who operate these operations - the increase to 100 euros of concession fees had already caused a great deal of trouble to oilmen and, above all, to ENI. With this consideration, I therefore invite - as my colleague Mr D'Ali has done very well - to support this amendment, with the awareness that the invitation will fall into the void, as always, even when it concerns positions taken by the Democratic Party already in previous legislation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u62	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, my explanation of vote on Amendment 1,200 supports the need to avoid an unfair tax on agricultural land - i.e. on capital goods par excellence, which are used to produce food, to keep our territory in order and very often to resolve also the failures or criticalities that the public hand cannot guarantee through maintenance - through the increase of annual fees for prospecting and research permits and for the concessions of cultivation and storage in the mainland, the sea and the Italian continental shelf. I think this is a reasonable solution, because here there is such an anomaly that those who use state property for the purposes of the production of revenue, not always with attention to the common good, on which the production plant is based, benefit from particularly facilitated rates, while those who are engaged in the maintenance of the territory and in the production of food apply a capital tax. I therefore ask this House once again to be consistent and to respond to the call that comes not only from the whole agricultural world, no one excluded, but also from common sense, and that it goes in the direction of avoiding an unfair tax on the instrumental good par excellence.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u65	BOCCHINO (Misto-ILC). Mr President, in declaring the vote in favour by myself and Senator Campanella, of the Italian component Work in the course of the Mixed Group, I would ask the signatories of amendments 1.1 and 1,200 to include our signatures. Although we are absolutely opposed to the activities of exploration, research, cultivation and storage of hydrocarbons in the sea and in the mainland in all the Italian regions, and especially in Sicily, our island, because we believe this to be a wrong and uneconomic model, we will vote strongly in favour of this amendment. The reason is that essentially it removes the alibi that has been used to reject all the others that provided for the abolition of the agricultural IMU, with a financial cover that fully satisfies the total abolition of the tax, which - let us remember once again - will cause the actual abandonment of many mountain, hilly and plain land, when instead we should actually promote at all levels the agriculture of proximity (especially in Sicily, but also in all other Italian regions). We therefore vote in favour of these amendments. [[Applause from Senator Bell.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u66	We take this opportunity to greet the students of the Institute of Higher Education "Pizzini-Pisani" in Paola, in the province of Cosenza, who are attending our work with their teachers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u67	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators, identical to amendment 1,200, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). We wait for the last ones to arrive; after that I ask you to remain in your place. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, give us more time! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, there was a Senator of Forza Italia and one of the PD who were returning and had every right to vote. [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] Sit down, Senator Santangelo. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2 tabled by Senator D'Alì. (The vote was followed). ( [[Senator D'Alì points out that he wants to intervene]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, from now on I open and close. I'm not waiting anymore. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). I asked to speak on Amendment 1.2. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No one asked for the word; I didn't see it. I apologise, but I do not cancel the vote. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). I'm leaving. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do what you like. [[Senator Bonfrisco's comments.]] There are 140 amendments, the explanation of vote can be made on the following. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). It was important about that. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've already proclaimed the result. I'm sorry. Let us move on to Amendment No 1,201, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. You want to talk about this, Senator D'Alì? D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). No. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,201, tabled by Senators Bonfrisco and D'Alì. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u70	RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, your speedy work is embarrassing us because we cannot follow such a delicate subject carefully. Please go a little calmer because we don't follow the work. We did not speak during the general debate, but now we want to speak on our amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u71	Senator Ruvolo, look that in two hours we did three votes and I did not intervene to remind the Groups, like yours, that they are intervening after they have run out of time already for some time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u72	However, he will not be lacking in his wisdom and also in his knowledge of many and many legislatures in the classrooms. We are talking about such an important measure whose approval - alas - is intended to speed up. In any case, I am going to give my explanation of vote on this amendment. Of course, our Group has asked for the total exemption of agricultural land, but we have done so with a serene, quiet motivation and I also feel very responsible, beyond the interventions (in fact very few) by the majority. Perhaps those who table an amendment of this nature may be considered in a certain way, but I do not say that. We wanted to do something very simple: exempt all agricultural land, whether at sea, in the plains or in the mountains, to give breath to Italian agriculture. That's the motivation. We don't have any more. Moreover, it is necessary to record - alas - the silence of the Government in its reply. But you have nothing to say to us after so many hours of debate? The representative of the Government does not intervene in response to let us know what his thought is. If you've made up your mind a few days ago or a few weeks ago, what are we doing here? You go with the force of numbers, but the people of agriculture will strike you deeply, of course, in the legitimacy of the acts, which is that of the ballot box. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI), M5S and FI-PdL XVII]] Smile, smile! That is the reason we have given to the total exemption and, therefore, to this amendment of ours.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u75	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business, as Senator D'Alì has expressed this somewhat embarrassing situation. I would like to welcome him to the unheard-of club, since it happens every day for us: on the occasion of the examination of every measure we try to intervene and be censored and invited to intervene on the next one, which maybe has nothing to do with it, but talking about the one before, so, only for sport. Senator D'Alì, welcome to the club. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u78	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, perhaps I find it difficult to understand what you have said, which has called on the House to speed up voting on this measure. I didn't understand what the urgency was; frankly, I didn't get it. I thought that in this House we should all express our opinion, trying to contribute together to making a better decree in the interests of the country. On the other hand, I understand - Mr President, I apologise, perhaps I will have misunderstood - that you have a need and an urgency to finish as soon as possible and to have this amendment approved. It doesn't matter what we're going to bring home: indeed, bringing home something not useful in the interests of our farmers, almost seems like there is an urgent need to vote and bring home such a reproach from you, the PD, which should be the party that protects farmers, the party of those who speak the language of democracy, the balance party, the party that says it's on the side of those who are the producers of work on our national territory. Mr President, I would ask you to exercise your role as you have always exercised it, giving the possibility to those in this House who are able to express their thoughts, because our thinking serves to help achieve something useful in the interests of the country. In fact, up to now, within this provision I have seen written only obnoxious things towards the Italian citizens and those who work our land: I repeat, our land, which is the essential element of life. Mr President, please think carefully about your role and also the position you have, because at the moment you are Vice President of the Senate, but you are also the leader of a political party that has fought and is fighting in the interests of Italian citizens. I'd like to thank you for your continued work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u79	Senator Scilipoti, what I have previously expressed is not my wish, but what has been established by the Conference of Leaders and since I am also making the Groups that have already run out of time talk, I would not be forced - and for this reason I make my calls - to have to do so even later, in a very total way. When it is necessary to do so we talk, we deal with the subject and then we do not waste time, because otherwise the times run and then they are finished for everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u82	GAETTI (M5S). On Amendment 1.4 and on the next two amendments, the Group is abstaining, not because it does not share its content, because we are certainly opposed to the IMU, but because we are not convinced of the coverage: so it is really a technical speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u83	The amendment is not covered under Article 81 of the Constitution. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposed vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposed vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Ruvolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u86	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, one question: why are you asking for support for all the articles?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u87	I am asking for the impervious amendments under Article 81 of the Constitution, because unfortunately the system cannot register. In such cases it is necessary to verify the support for each request for a vote. Let us move on to Amendment 1,202, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposed vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u90	PUGLIA (M5S). I would ask Senator Ruta, the first signatory to Amendment 1,202, to allow me and all the members of the Group to sign it. [[Senator Ruta's consent.]] I would like to explain why we are making this request. On the one hand, there is the IMU exemption: we absolutely must exempt our farmers from the IMU and then we must go and see why this measure has been taken. It says the rule that: It considers the extraordinary need and urgency to provide for the exemption of municipal own tax (...) in order to ensure the necessary revenue for the State's budget. So the state, the Renzi government, the Renzi government party, the PD wants to take the money from the farmers. Instead, this amendment says that it does not take these resources from farmers, but from those intended to finance the F-35 programme. The question is, therefore, whether we want to help farmers or finance the construction of F-35 aircraft. We believe that farmers should be helped and we will therefore vote in favour of Amendment 1,202 and thank you for agreeing to the addition of signatures.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u93	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to ask for this amendment to be signed, not so much because of the source of coverage but because we are talking and I have often heard of farmers in this House. Well, this amendment beyond farmers also concerns farmers - particularly Sardinian farmers - who do a great deal of their work on this type of land. Therefore, asking for the possibility of signing it, I will clearly vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u94	The League Group also informed the Presidency of its intention to sign amendment 1.202. Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,202, tabled by Senator Ruta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1.6, tabled by Senator Ruvolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.8, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.9, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.9, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 1.10, which is essentially the same as Amendment 1.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10, tabled by Senator Ruvolo and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Giovanni Mauro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.20, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words "For the year". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1.20 and Amendment 1.21 are therefore excluded. We move on to amendment 1.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator Uras and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.22, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.22, tabled by Senator Ruvolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.23, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.23, tabled by Senator Bruni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators, up to the words "non-mountain." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1.14 and amendments 1.15 to 1.19 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 1.24, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.24, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1,203, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,203, tabled by Senator Pelino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.27, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposed vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u97	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to endorse Amendment No 1.27 and, of course, all the other amendments tabled by Senators of my Group who I did not subscribe to.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u100	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to understand from the Government whether it intends to take this last opportunity and why it has expressed an opinion against this amendment, which has a ridiculous cost and for which we have provided for over-abundant coverage. As has also been said in this House, these are only ten very small municipalities located in the mountainous area, some of which fall into entirely mountainous provinces under the Delrio reform, which the Democratic Party strongly wanted. I cannot understand how the government can escape this small gesture, which is so important on a symbolic level, a measure that should show at least a little reasonableness. I appeal to the Government to take the opportunity to change its opinion before we vote and also to appeal to colleagues to vote in conscience, regardless of the government's response.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u101	As there is no intervention, pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,27, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,28, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u104	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking on this amendment because if it is not adopted, as unfortunately it will not, it will preclude amendment 1.29. Amendment 1.28 refers to the mountain municipalities included in the provinces recognised by the Delrio law as entirely mountain and it is a request that we have made because there is a minimal anomaly. From the Commission's point of view, and from the rapporteurs, it was requested that the amendment be withdrawn and that it be transformed into an agenda, which would be done precisely by the Commission. I can say that there has been ample willingness to do so, and the rapporteur has also shared the problem. However, I would have liked the Government to take note of and accept the request, as it is a situation of such obvious iniquity and referring to a single municipality within a mountain recognition granted by the legislation produced by the Government. We understand the difficulties, but we would have liked the amendments to be adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u105	I am afraid that the assessment of the 5th standing Commission, unfortunately, has weighed on these amendments. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,28, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators, up to the word "ISTAT." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1.28 and Amendment 1.29 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.26 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.25, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposed vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.25, tabled by Senators Spilabotte and Scalia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.30, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposed vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.30, tabled by Senators Marinello and D'Alì. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.31, identical to amendments 1.32 and 1.33, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposed vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.31, tabled by Senator Stefano and other senators, identical to amendments 1.32, tabled by Senator Ruvolo and other senators, and 1.33, tabled by Senator Ruvolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.34, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposed vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.34, tabled by Senators Piccoli and Carraro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.35, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,35, tabled by Senator Moscardelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,36, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u108	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the explanation of vote concerns all the amendments relating to natural disasters. It is absolutely unbelievable that land, which is the subject of natural disasters, is not exempt from the IMU. Unfortunately, in this House, we have examined hundreds of measures due to devastating natural factors such as earthquakes. No one has ever dreamed of denying the suspension or exemption from payment of ICI or IMU to buildings or industrial plants damaged by earthquakes. Do you think flooded soil is different from a damaged shed? Do you think that a land, which has suffered a landslide or natural calamity, sometimes even irreversible, is different from the damage suffered by another type of calamity? Is agriculture really nothing to you? Are farmers for you people who can even die in full or under landslides and we must do nothing to exempt them? If you consider this to be contrary to these amendments, but if you have a minimum judgment of substantial equity, also due to those who lose their productive activity as a result of natural disasters, you must recognize to those who are affected by natural disasters - sanctioned by a measure always governmental and therefore never imagined but all found - the right to be exempted from the payment of this capital tax which concerns land that they should produce and that they are no longer in a position to do so. This also applies to land subject to pollution not because of the owner's fault. This also applies to all lands which are subject to alterations and whose products are not marketable. I would ask that there should be a minimum of rethinking. Otherwise we should review our whole philosophy of intervention in relation to other types of natural disasters.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u111	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask the House to vote in favour of this amendment, making it clear how important it is. I believe it is essential to give an answer to the owners of those lands that have suffered from emergency situations and natural disasters and for which, among other things, the state of emergency has been declared, therefore with an objective difficulty of living in that situation. But even more, with this amendment we call for the exemption not to be one-off for the current flooded areas and for the situation that unfortunately has arisen in them, but to become a definite iter, thus entering the system if there are floods and the state of emergency is declared. The strong and important request is that this exemption be made automatically. That is the point of the amendment that goes in this direction. We absolutely do not understand why the Government does not realize this difficulty and does not want to meet families, communities and companies that are in great difficulty, bent by economic hardships and this additional taxation that weighs on areas that at the moment do not produce but rather see whole economies bent.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u114	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of the entire Group of the Five Star Movement, I would ask Senator Bellot to be able to sign his amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u117	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, the reason why we subscribe to this amendment is very simple. For those who do not know - but I hope you know - the calculation of the IMU is done from the cadastral annuity. Cadastral annuities arise when the land register was born in 1865, to determine how much money one can derive from a certain amount of land, whether built or not, according to normal use; this says the initial terminology. At a time when there is a natural disaster and the possibility of gaining income from land is compromised inevitably, albeit temporarily, the cadastral rent becomes zero and therefore, by its very definition, the land cannot be subject, albeit temporarily, to taxation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u120	DI MAY (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I too would like to subscribe to this amendment, because very often the messages coming from the South of Italy do not pass through. The area of Metapontino, which has been completely flooded, has not had the same honors of the chronicle that have had other realities in the North of the country. Since I believe that there are no divisions between children of God and children of a lesser God, I would ask that I sign this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u121	Senator Bellot, do you agree to all these multiple subscriptions? BELLOT (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,36, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,37, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u124	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I come back to the same point that my colleague has just made in his explanation of vote. I call on our colleagues once again to think about the ratio of this amendment: we are calling for the exclusion of the IMU from the land on which a disaster lies. As coordinator of the Regional Councillors for Agriculture, at the time of the earthquake in Emilia I spokesperson and author of a proposal that took away from all regional RDPs resources to alleviate the suffering of that territory. And the regions did an extraordinary work of solidarity. Here is only to activate common sense. Can a land affected by a disaster also be charged for the payment of an asset on agricultural land? I think that's a reason for common sense. And so I am missing the view that, for example, the Government on national agriculture in this House has not come to propose anything or to say a single word or to give us at least the willingness to accept an agenda on such a resounding issue. I appeal once again to the House. Here we also predict a different form of coverage. We do not ask for the exclusion of the IMU without a ratio, but we exclude it only for those land that, if we also put the IMU, we will deliver definitively to the abandonment. I ask you to reflect on this opportunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u127	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I should like to make a point of order. Punctually, as soon as a flood or earthquake arrives, the Government presents a decree-law to guarantee exemptions because you run to put the patch. But it is more correct that, before a situation occurs, rules are established. True, there is double morale, depending on the territory affected and who governs it. But we do not wish that we had really reached this level, Mr President. So let's also tell the majority senators to consider that the citizens are unfortunately affected by bad luck regardless of what they vote. Perhaps, even on this occasion, it is worth showing us a little more mature in making choices.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u130	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this amendment. I would like to reflect on the correctness of the presentation of Mr Stefano's amendment, which says "only" to the following year. Here we create the conditions not to penalise further those who, because of the event, will not even be able to sow or work that land. It is not said to exempt to aeternum, but for the following year. It seems to me to be a rule of such reasonableness, which really is difficult not to sign up to, as I ask you to do, and not to vote, as my fellow Members will do.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u133	RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to subscribe to two amendments, 1,37, first signed by Senator Stefano, and the next, of very similar content, 1,38, of which my colleague Mr Tarquinio is the first signatory. The calamitous events that are taking place in Sicily and Calabria in these hours, on the night between Saturday 21 and Sunday 22 February concerning exondated rivers have destroyed a citrus heritage that has no equal throughout Italy. Bridges have fallen - there are responsibilities of ANAS - everything has been devastated. I am talking about these hours: it still rains and farmers are in great trouble and trouble. They do not know whether to pay, when, where and if you will have to pay the IMU. We do not ask who will compensate for all this damage, but if it is right for them to pay this ignoble tax. Is it right in this circumstance not to have a movement of sensitivity in favour of these people who have seen their agricultural heritage destroyed? It really takes courage to say no in the face of situations that you are fully aware of because they are before everyone's eyes. This is also an opportunity for this Government: I do not say to compensate but not to charge the tax to all the land that has been devastated in these hours, not to mention what happened before. I imagine that there is finally a whisper from the majority to welcome this or other amendments which aim to give the possibility of not paying the IMU for the following year, but also for the current year. There is another amendment, Mr President, to the first signature of Senator Ruta, which I will sign, hoping that a positive signal can also be given to these people on that political side. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI) and LN-Aut.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u136	Mr Fornaro, rapporteur. Mr President, I must draw the House's attention. There are several amendments - we have just seen one, but there are others - which raise a real issue, namely the issue of land in municipalities where there have been calamitous events, declaration of state of emergency. On all these amendments there is the opposite opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, which means that we cannot act differently at this stage. However, the issues are real, so I would ask the Government and the presenters to take on a general agenda asking the Government to consider whether it is appropriate to do so. Subsequently, if the cover is found, then during the course of the year, I ask the Government to take into account this problem, that of the land in the municipalities where the state of emergency has been declared. In this form, not challenging - I realize that - but it is a signal, I ask the government's willingness. I believe that this would be a signal of attention in terms that have been remembered because honestly many of us also live in lands hit by disasters and we have exactly the same sensitivity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the representative of the Government whether he agrees with this proposal from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u137	In the terms in which the rapporteur expressed his commitment, there is the willingness of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u138	Amendments 1,37, 1,38, 1,39 and 1,40 have the same characteristics as alluvial events or natural disasters. Senator Stefano, how do you pronounce on this proposal?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u139	Mr President, I do not have a long parliamentary experience like that of many of my colleagues, but in these two years in Parliament I have discovered that the agendas are a sort of scam to wash my face. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and LAG Groups]] Therefore, either we take on a commitment or I do not need to wash the face of the people of Gargano, because I have already done so many other times [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]] I therefore ask the Government and you to be prepared to put aside Amendment No 1.37 in order to sit aside and reformulate it in a way that will allow us to avoid the provisions of Article 81 of the Constitution, to try to make a commitment that is worthy of this name, otherwise we will vote on the amendment and assume responsibility in this House again.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u142	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, unlike Senator Stefano, I do not know whether, fortunately or unfortunately, I have a longer parliamentary experience and I have had (as well as you) many measures for which, being at first reading, we have opted for the postponement of the accommodation even of cancellations compared to Article 81 of the Constitution, because respect for your forecasts must be safeguarded in the final drafting of the measure, so the House will surely find the system to fix it. I repeat that it would not be the first time, my experience suggests that I can say that and I believe that this can also be derived from parliamentary acts. Therefore, if you have a provision for approval, even with a box or with a new cover, I can agree; however, the agenda that refers to a subsequent measure and not to the intervention in the House can certainly leave no one satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u143	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, you have tabled an amendment which could be receptive to the rapporteur's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u144	Mr President, my speech will be very brief to invite the Government, which I also see authoritatively represented in the number as well as in the quality of the people present, to give extra attention, because here we are not in a souk, in a market to negotiate who knows what. Here, through a debate also particularly documented and warned, there is an attempt to bring a contribution of reflection that will get us out of the impasse. I start from the following consideration: is the granting by the Government of the state of calamity for an area that has been tormented by an unexpected atmospheric event a moral recognition? Is it a condition of privilege that allows you to stick a medal to the flag of the municipality or is instead the instrument through which the Government, recognizing the state of calamity, intends to open a highway to bring its own relief, its own moral solidarity, but also concretely economic solidarity and its support to the populations that have been martyred by the event? I believe that the second hypothesis is true, otherwise a deception would be consumed to which I would like to tell you that we do not lend ourselves; I believe that even the debate is idle, because it becomes a tool to confuse ideas, not to create the conditions for comparison in this House to open up to more effective legislative action. With regard to my region, Puglia, we had to put the countdays in relation to the time that was necessary for the government to recognize the state of calamity of the Gargano. After a daily press press press press press release, the government finally recognized the Gargano's condition of territory devastated by the atmospheric event and the state of calamity. What we do today is to say that there is a promise, a commitment, that homeopathic dilution with which we are preparing to face the demand that is vibrating from a square. I believe that the most conscious, responsible, mature and correct attitude towards the country regarding this tax is to put aside these amendments and, with common sense, government gentlemen, find the best way to give as much attention as possible in terms of economic support. From this point of view, I appreciate the attention that the rapporteur has drawn to the case that we are putting and imploring the Government to take on this responsibility, knowing that we will not ask for more, but we will not be content with less.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u146	Colleagues, I remind everyone that for each Group only one representative and all others in dissent can intervene. With yours, Senator Scilipoti, we are at the fourth intervention of the Group of Forza Italia, so or intervenes in dissent, otherwise I cannot give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u147	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). I disagree, but before I speak in dissent I would ask to be able to subscribe to Amendments Nos 1,37 and 1.38. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, but do you disagree and ask for the amendments to be accepted? ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). I am saying that I speak in dissent, but I also add a reflection. Can't I add it? Okay, so I'm speaking in dissent, but before I speak in dissent... Senator Scilipoti, I do not allow you to make fun of either the Presidency or the Assembly. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Excuse me, can I step in? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, he cannot disagree with an amendment and at the same time ask for its signature.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u150	RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, thank you once again. I think the rapporteur has taken an important step, because that means that the Government and the majority are beginning to consider some of our amendments. But I would like to point out that Amendment 1.38 is a truly responsible proposal which reads as follows: On agricultural land, as well as on uncultivated land, located in municipalities for which the Council of Ministers, on the date of publication of the law of conversion of this decree has already declared the state of emergency, I would have spoken of a state of calamity: but what is more responsible for this amendment? Mr President, we have seen mountains on agendas and have never had any effect. It is therefore indeed appropriate that the Government and the rapporteur agree immediately, that the amendment should be put aside and that a solution should be found to give a concrete response to those people who have been devastated.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u153	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I agree with the words of Senator Stephen, because we have also raised the question of the territories affected by these natural disasters in the Commission. We are often faced with the combination of a climate that affects a territory, but also with a bad management of the territory, deriving from some ill-fated measures that this Government and this Parliament adopt for certain territories. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Caliendo.]] It therefore seems more consistent to set aside these amendments, sit down at the table and establish a criterion with which to protect those territories that are often hit (today it may be Gargano, but tomorrow it could be Tuscany, Liguria or Trentino, because any Italian territory is now at risk). It is not therefore necessary to establish something for 2014, 2015 or what it will be, but to introduce a rule that becomes structural for the territories that will suffer damage (since this instead is an emergency measure, since it is a decree-law, that we hope puts the word "fine" but I do not believe). [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u154	We have no willingness on the part of the authors to turn the amendment into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u155	What is the rapporteur's view on the proposed provision?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u156	Mr President, I would just like it to remain with the acts which, at the time of the statement of the state of emergency by the Council of Ministers, are identified as responsible and certain resources, so there is space - where necessary - to take action on this issue, as on others. It seems to me that we surreptitiously try to put it into the agricultural IMU, but the problem exists. The reference to the agenda was not intended to escape, but it was true and can then be overturned by the Government within every single reality that has been the subject of calamitous events, which has different characteristics. I would like to see an end to some demagogy from this point of view. I am therefore against the provision, partly because there is the opposition of the 5th Commission, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u157	Given that the problem has led to such a wide-ranging debate, I shall, however, put the proposal for provision to the vote of this House, so that we do not have any more problems.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u160	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Mr President, since Amendment 1.36, which was the first to introduce this issue, has been voted on, we strongly call for it to be put aside and for it to be checked how it could possibly be recovered for the purposes of the vote, given that it is absolutely on the subject and indeed the explanatory statement was clear, inter alia, by creating stability in this situation. We therefore call for our amendment to be recovered as well. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u161	Thank you for your request, Senator Bellot, but, "Nazarenes" aside, I cannot resuscitate amendments that have already been passed. I am sorry, therefore, but I remain on Amendment No 1.37. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the proposal to put it aside, on which the rapporteur has expressed the opposite view and which, since I already know what he will call for, I have done so by electronic means without registering names, in order to avoid closing doors and so on. I therefore put to the vote, by electronic procedure without registering names, the request to put Amendment No 1.37 aside. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,37, tabled by Senator Stefano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,38, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.38 tabled by Senator Tarquinio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1.39, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.39, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators, up to the word "alluvial." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1,39 and Amendment 1,40 are therefore excluded. We move on to amendment 1,41, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,41, tabled by Senator Stefano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1,42, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,42, tabled by Senator D'Amborsio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.43 has been withdrawn. We move on to amendment 1,44, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u164	RUTA (PD). Mr President, I shall withdraw it and turn it into an agenda and, if possible, ask for a favourable opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is How do the rapporteur and the representative of the Government express themselves on the agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u165	With the wording "to assess the appropriateness of "to" the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u166	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u169	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). We need my opinion on the change of agenda, as I have signed this amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is the first signatory that has the availability of the amendment and not the second. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). I am in favour of this amendment for making it known in good time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If Senator Ruta turns it into the order of the day, it is not for you to choose its destiny. So, Senator Ruta, do you accept the proposal? RUTA (PD). Yes, Mr. President. I am the only signatory to the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator D'Alì asked to sign it, but in the event of a change of agenda, the first signature leads the process. RUTA (PD). I keep the agenda. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). I should like to point out that this rule is valid in the course of the sitting. Having submitted my amendment in good time, this rule does not apply. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you're going to take a class on this one day, I'll be grateful. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). We both have the same experience: perhaps I am more than you, than this Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u170	All right, I'll take it; I was looking for a lesson. But things work differently. Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.44 agenda will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,1000, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.46 and 1.47 have been withdrawn. Amendment 1.48 is precluded by the adoption of amendment 1,1000. Let us move on to Amendment No 1.49, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.49, tabled by Senator Stefano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.51, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.51, tabled by Senator Sciascia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.52, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.52, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,53, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.53, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1,54, identical to amendment 1,55, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u173	ORRU' (PD). Mr President, if that were possible, I would like to turn Amendment No 1.55 into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Orrù, amendment 1.54 is identical to amendment 1.55. So, in this case, the procedure is different from what you referred to, Senator D'Alì (if you wish, I invite you to read, on page 193 of the Rules of Procedure, the decision of the Council which is present in the note to Rule 102 and you will see that you will find my position). Senator Orrù, as Senator De Petris insists on her vote, there is no point in his request for the order of business. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.54, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 1.55, tabled by Senators Orrù and Gatti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.50, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u174	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u176	RUTA (PD). I withdraw amendment 1.50 and turn it into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u177	To express a favourable opinion on this agenda would be a mockery, because we have done as much on the subject of cover as possible. I therefore ask Mr Ruta to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u178	Senator Ruta, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u179	As the rapporteur's statement and his opposition to this point, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u182	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, having signed it in good time, do not withdraw it and I ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u185	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u186	Senators Di Maggio and Crosio also want to add their signature. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.50, withdrawn by Senator Ruta and maintained by Senator D'Alì and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,56, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u189	ORRU' (PD). I would ask for the possibility of turning the amendment into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call on the rapporteur to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u190	I am sorry, but my opinion is against and, for the same reason already expressed with reference to Senator Ruta's amendment 1.50, I would like to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u191	Senator Orrù, what are you going to do? ORRU' (PD). I'm taking him back.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u192	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u194	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I support the amendment and request the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u197	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask you to add my signature to the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u198	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,56, tabled by Senator Orrù and other senators, who were subsequently withdrawn and made by Senators Crosio and D'Alì. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,57, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u199	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u201	RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I rise to sign this amendment, which really makes clear all the various positions held by farmers: from convenience of use, to rent and more. Therefore, I fully agree with it and endorse it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u202	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u204	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I asked for the floor during the examination of one or two amendments ago. I would like to make a thought, not out of controversy. [[Comments from the PD Group]] You have just interrupted my speech at the beginning, when I said that I wanted to subscribe to Amendments Nos 1,37 and 1.38. My reflection is serene because - I have noticed it as we move forward in the work - an unpleasing system called distraction policy has been put in place. Yesterday we saw her - I say this with great respect for her - with reference to President Casini, who intervened, implementing the policy of distraction, on the provision on environmental crimes. Today, however, we have seen it implemented by a representative of the PD, who gives us an indication that it would be more appropriate, more correct and perhaps more useful for our farmers to turn that amendment into an agenda. We all know what distraction policy means. It is used by the Renzi Government daily, yesterday it was used by our President Casini and today it is used by the PD and the Government. In the end, I would like to say that in the light of this distraction policy exercise by the PD and the Government, I was perfectly aware that I was on the wrong track and therefore I was led not to vote on the amendments 1.37 and 1.38 that I had signed and voted against. If you, Mr President, had given me the opportunity to make my reflection and had not been eager to try to say what I had in mind, we would most likely have understood each other earlier. But I'm glad you gave me the floor now, after asking so many times and pretending you didn't see...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u205	I won't allow you to tell me these wills. Senator Sclipoti, I'm calling you back to order.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u206	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). I repeat that the policy of distraction has not arrived today within this Parliament, but is regularly used by the left-wing government, which is currently in our country, but was used previously by some people outside politics and in politics, who certainly did not and do not do the interests of the country and the farmers.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u207	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u209	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to endorse Amendment No 1,57, because unfortunately - let us be clear, Mr President - a new tax has been introduced: a tax on agricultural land by the Renzi party. We are absolutely against it: we must abolish it. In this case the amendment at least does something, because it extends the possibility of exemption also to those who rent or grant in convenient. Keep in mind that - of course - if an owner grants a land for convenient or for rent and today does not pay the IMU, if one tomorrow will have to pay the IMU, the price will also increase. It is obvious that this rule will ensure that we do not further increase the tax burden on our farmers.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u210	Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,57, tabled by Senator Ruta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,58, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposed vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,58, tabled by Senator Zizza, up to the word "possessed." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1.58 and Amendment 1.59 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 1.60, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposed vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.60, tabled by Senator Zizza, until the word "destination" is used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1.60 and Amendment 1.61 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 1.62. Senator Gianluca Rossi, do you accept the proposal to turn the amendment into an agenda? Rossi Gianluca (PD). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u211	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u212	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u213	VACCIANO (Mixed). Mr President, I would like a clarification on this agenda, in the sense that if - as I understand the intention - it is to ensure that the passage from the father to the child is exempt, even if the father does not have the status of an agricultural entrepreneur, then it must be specified, otherwise it would simply be a "of which" in paragraph 2, without obtaining the result that I think they want to obtain the colleagues who have presented it. I therefore ask whether it is not appropriate to think of a rewording in which it is specified that the transferor party may not even have the status of farmer or direct farmer: otherwise we are simply repeating paragraph 2, narrowing it down. PRESIDENT. - The debate is For me, the rapporteur, being an agenda, does not mean legislation but merely a direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u214	That's right. I confirm that I am prepared to give a favourable opinion, provided that the agenda is put in the words 'to assess the appropriateness of the agenda'. ZANETTI, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. The Government gives its assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u215	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G1.62 will not be put to the vote. We move on to amendment 1.63, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u216	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u218	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to Amendment 1.63. I have doubts that Regulation (EU) No 1305 of 2013 has not been read. If, in fact, it were read in its principles, it would be understood that it affects those areas which are already subject to naturalistic and environmental constraints, in which farmers put their own to preserve corners of nature that now go By extinguishing. Furthermore, this amendment contains the concept of protection of agriculture and the typical nature of products already supported by rural development plans. Therefore, I would ask you to vote in favour of Amendment 1.63 precisely in order to give real attention to this issue and to put this issue on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u219	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u220	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u221	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I would like to know what the outcome of Senator Zizza's amendment 1.61. I would like, in fact, if the senator allows me to, to sign this amendment, which calls for the exemption of land to be used... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have already voted on Amendment 1.61 and it has been rejected. Mr ASTORRE (PD). Wake up! WOMAN (M5S). Excuse me, ma'am, can you take the statement from the senator? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I think these expressions are incorrect. My colleague apologizes. WOMAN (M5S). I demand an apology from the senator, who called me "beast" in this House. [[Comments from the PD Group's desks]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u222	No, it's not. I heard it perfectly: it was "wake up" at all.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u223	WOMAN (M5S). Take it easy, Senator. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, we are examining Amendment 1.63. WOMAN (M5S). Thank you. Okay.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u224	Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,63, tabled by Senator Amidei and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 1,204, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,204 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,205 tabled by Senator D'Alì. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1,65, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,65, tabled by Senators Orrù and D'Alì, up to the words "ad IMU". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1.65 and Amendment 1.64 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 1,66, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u225	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u226	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u227	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I would like to endorse Senator Bellot's amendment 1.66, which concerns the exemption of agricultural land in municipalities which have suffered damage as a result of natural disasters. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.66, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1.67, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.67, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.68, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, was withdrawn by Senator Ruta.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u228	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u229	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u230	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would ask that Amendment No 1.68 be put to the vote, having signed it in good time. It is an amendment which sufficiently complements the forecasts already made by the rapporteur for a basic deduction on the IMU for farmers and, in line with what we have done so far, we strongly vote for everything that soothes this unfair capital tax on agricultural land. I believe that approving this amendment can be important for the whole sector and I therefore call for a vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u231	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u232	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u233	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u234	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to endorse Amendment No 1.68. Of course, it, as Senator D'Alì recalled, goes to alleviate the taxes that will now come into force. Then forgive me, I'm seeing that actually the one who's raising taxes is the Democratic Party along with the New Right Center. Well, I remember Alfano saying, in October 2013, that they are the tax-free watchmen. Mr President, this is a mockery then! [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Simeoni]] They have to stop going on TV and tell lies! The reality is what they do in here and what they vote: taxes are increasing. We want them to be reduced, and therefore voted in favour of them, colleagues from the New Right Centre! [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u235	Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.68, withdrawn by Senator Ruta and maintained by Senators D'Alì and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1.70, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposed vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.70, tabled by Senator Fattori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.71, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposed vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.71, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators, until the word "passed." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1,71 and amendments 1,72 to 1,76 are therefore excluded. Let us turn to Amendment No 1.77, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposed vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.77, tabled by Senator Ruta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On Amendment 1.78 a call for withdrawal was made, do the authors accept it? BELLOT (LN-Aut). No, Mr President, I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.78, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 1.79, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposed vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.79, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.45 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1.80, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u236	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u237	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u238	VATTUONE (PD). Mr President, the amendment deals with the issue of the state of emergency as a result of natural disasters. I would ask you to turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u239	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u240	Mr President, I would like to express my support if the wording is adopted and if we consider whether it is appropriate to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u241	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur. WOMAN (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, if I may, I would like to sign the agenda. PUGLIA (M5S). I too, Mr President, would like to sign.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u242	I take note of that. Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.80 agenda will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to Amendment No 1.81, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.81, tabled by Senator Ruvolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.92 tabled by Senator Ruvolo and other senators. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u243	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u244	I shall cancel the vote. You have the floor, Senator Ruvolo.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u245	RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I am speaking for a very simple reason. This amendment indicates the infamous deadline of 10 February 2015. This amendment, which I did not understand because of speed if the opinion of the rapporteur and the Government were in favour or against, states: "after the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree-law.' I think it is appropriate that at least this proposal should be approved, but I have not understood what the rapporteur and the Government have decided on it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ruvolo, there was an invitation to withdraw the rapporteur, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u246	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u247	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u248	Mr Fornaro, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members, even though we are a little tired. Work has been done in the Commission, issues have been raised and a solution has been found which has been unanimous in the Commission: opening a period of moratorium between 10 February and 31 March. I repeat, out of respect for the work in the Commission, the request for the withdrawal of amendments 1.92, 1.82, 1.83, 1.84, 1.86, 1.87, 1.88, 1.89 and 1.91, otherwise the opinion is against and I wonder what we have done in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u249	Senator Ruvolo, are you willing to pick him up? RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). No, I'm asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.92 tabled by Senator Ruvolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.82, tabled by Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.83, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators, identical to amendment 1.84, tabled by Senator Gatti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,86, tabled by Senator Di Biagio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.87 tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators, identical to amendment 1.88, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.89 has been withdrawn. Does Senator Orrù accept the call for the withdrawal of amendment 1.91? ORRU' (PD). Yeah, I'm gonna pick it up. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us move on to Amendment No 1.93, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u250	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u251	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u252	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if I had any doubts about the fact that the IMU is a asset, the opinion contrary to this amendment confirmed this to me. How do you ask to pay the IMU to farmers with incomes below EUR 15.000, who really work with the sweat of the front, who work land with a minimum income? Is it possible that we do not have the ability to give a minimum of refreshment to these people by exempting them from paying the tax? We've lost all logic. This amendment refers to those who have suffered natural disasters and say that they have to pay; we are talking about those for whom there is a declaration of state of disaster and we say that they have to pay; we are talking about farmers with incomes below EUR 15.000 and they too have to pay. Will you tell me what we're voting to do? The government votes on its own; it is useless for us to argue. What do we vote for? On the part of the majority there must be a minimum of responsibility. When it comes to defending poor people, I believe that everyone, regardless of the political group we belong to, should consider ourselves on the same boat and seek suitable solutions. I shall therefore vote in favour of this amendment. I know he'll be lost, but at least I'll have a good conscience when I sleep tonight. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, GAL (GS, LA‐nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI) and LN‐Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u253	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u254	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u255	COMPAGNONE (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would just like to point out one thing. Everything I would have expected except that the PD did not vote for an amendment like this. How can you look the poor people in the face tomorrow? [[Comments from the PD Group.]] To those who do not reach 15,000 euros of income we charge taxes! But aren't you ashamed? [[Applause from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u256	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u257	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u258	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, we in the 5 Star Movement are abstaining on this amendment, for a very simple reason: we certainly share its wording, but we do not share where we are going to take the money. That's the only reason we're abstaining. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u259	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u260	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u261	Mr Fornaro, rapporteur. Mr President, for the sake of respect for the House and for the information of my fellow Members, I would like to remind you that a rule that intervenes to exempt on minimum values and that concerns land is provided for by Decree-Law No 201 of 2011, in Article 13 (8) -bis, which says: (a) 70% of the tax on the part of value exceeding the said EUR 6,000 and up to EUR 15,500; (b) 50% of the tax on the excess value of EUR 15,500 and up to EUR 25,500; (c) 25% of the tax on the excess value of EUR 25,500 and up to EUR 32,000. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u262	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u263	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u264	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, after the heartfelt appeal of Senator Companione, whom I share, I would like to subscribe to this amendment. If I had doubts, the abstention of the 5 Star Movement and what the rapporteur has told us now have completely taken away from me: it is not the same thing that the rapporteur said. Amendment 1,93 refers to income below EUR 15,000, not income bands; that is different. Perhaps you do not realize this, but this amendment is completely different from what the rapporteur has just said to us. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] We, with the culture that I at least have (the socialist) and that you do not have, are for the poor people. So we want this amendment to be voted on and we want to show who is in front of us and who really cares about those who, with the sweat of their foreheads, break their backs to keep going. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u265	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u266	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u267	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, what happens in this type of vote, which has been done in a very repetitive way, is that everyone more or less enters the part, losing sight of the general context. The real paradox, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are here today to vote on a measure which, instead of putting money in favour of agriculture, is linked to small people or is linked to those with more powers, takes away money from agriculture. This is the real paradox. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, FI-PdL XVII and Senator Donno groups.]] Everything else is just declinations or - as we now say - shades of gray. The only paradoxical thing about this measure is that, in the year of the Expo and all the rest, we don't put money on investments in agriculture, but we take money out of agriculture and put it in the general treasury. Do you; this is the year of Expo. In the end, we can't even say that you're stolen from agriculture, because there's not even going to be that anymore. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u268	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u269	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u270	Briefly, Senator Ruvolo, because he is the third member of your Group to speak on this amendment. RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to stress that we have done the impossible. I would like to achieve a minimum of results, not personal and of subscribers, but of common sense towards farmers. We have three amendments to scale: one of EUR 15,000, one of EUR 20,000 and one of EUR 30,000. We are certainly not at the market, but we have tried in every way to make this silent government understand this matter and the rapporteur, who has not said exactly what we have tried to do, even to reach a sum of EUR 15,000. But is it ever possible not to have this feeling?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u271	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u272	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u273	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in fact, before taking such decisive decisions on the life and economy of Italians, I think we should consider this. For example, what have been the effects of the taxation that has been introduced on buildings, on the house? The consequences have been the placing on the market of a number of buildings: increases demand, decreases supply, decreases price. The rule of the radiator is elementary: it is studied in the first years of the faculty of economics. At this moment you are giving a totally different meaning to what is a plot of land used by the farmer who benefits from it. What does this mean? That the nature of that good is instrumental. It's like saying, you have a machine that you produce your product with, and I put a tax on that machine. The problem then is not of the 15,000, of the 20,000 or of the 30,000 euros. I understand the efforts of colleagues to identify a minimum... PRESIDENT. Finish it, Senator. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). The problem is of an exquisitely cultural order, because you have not understood the nature of a plot of land that is used by the direct farmer to get a minimum income. You don't get it, or maybe you get it, but you don't care... [[Applause from Senator Ruvolo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u274	Colleagues, as you have gone too far in each Group's requests for intervention, I will now give a voice to one speaker per Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u275	He is already the fourth speaker of the Gruppo Grandi Autonomie e Libertà (Great South, Freedom and Autonomy - us SUD, Movement for Autonomies, New PSI, Popular for Italy) who asks me for the floor. That's enough.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u276	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u277	Senator Puglia, do you wish to speak in an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group or for what reason? PUGLIA (M5S). In fact, I would like to ask Mr Compagnone if he is perhaps going to change the current coverage, since I would also like to subscribe to Amendment No 1.93. In fact, it is true that there is exclusion of income from employees, self-employed, pension, family, but these covers go... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, the coverage has already been evaluated by the Budget Committee; we cannot change it in this House. PUGLIA (M5S). In any case, Mr President, I would like to ask if, in any case, he would like to reword them, because we are going to remove the deduction on the rents of the main house, the deduction on the purchase of the main house, on the interest on loans: in short, important interventions. Perhaps, however, if we were to cover the amendment through taxation on oil drilling, it would be appropriate and I would vote for it immediately, Mr Companione.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u278	[[Applause from Senator Donno.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u279	Too bad he didn't make it that way. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.93, tabled by Senator Compagnone and other senators, up to the words "less than". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1,93 and Amendments 1,94 and 1,95 are therefore excluded. Let us turn to Amendment No 1.96, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.96, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1.97, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.97, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.98 tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.99, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,100 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,101 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,102 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Orellana, do you accept the call for the withdrawal of Amendment 1,103? Orellana (Mist). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,103, tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 1,206, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u280	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u281	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u282	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the presence of another of the masterpieces combined by the Government with the decree of last November 2014 and not corrected in this provision. By a ministerial decree (so not by a law voted by Parliament, as it should be for this matter), the municipalities have been appointed tax substitutes for this tax exemption. Therefore, on the basis of a decree, the Government has taken from the Municipalities the amounts corresponding to the IMU to be received by the taxpayers in that area and has instructed the Municipalities to collect them in the following year. Moral of the fairy tale: the municipalities have found themselves a cut that has put them in enormous cash difficulties (some will also have to declare the failure), they will have to collect a tax in an area in which we know that, especially in some areas of the national territory, the evasion reaches two-digit percentages and even higher. I would therefore like to understand what is the ratio for which the municipalities as well as farmers are penalised. Maybe the government wants to dump on the mayors the emotional impact of having to go and ask the taxpayer for the tax and so want to download the impact also from the point of view of any repercussions on consent? It won't be like that. All Italian citizens know that today with the decree-law under consideration the IMU is consolidated in agriculture; all Italian farmers know it and unfortunately the mayors who will have to suffer the consequences. Amendment 1,206 aims at at least bringing the matter back to the truth. The government wants the IMU on agricultural land? If you collect it directly, do not penalise the municipalities that become tax substitutes without even having any benefit, but only a clear damage of cash and image. I think therefore that colleagues, many of whom come from the experience of the municipal administration and know what is the discomfort that today the municipalities are going through for the reduction of resources, want at least to do justice to the mayors saying that the tax on agricultural land pays farmers, but they pay it to the government and not to the municipality, which therefore does not suffer any cuts. That is the meaning of this amendment, which I request to be voted on. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Senator Bonfrisco points out that she wants to intervene]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u283	Senator Bonfrisco, I can only give you the floor if you wish to make a dissenting explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u284	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). I can't intervene in dissent. President. - The debate is closed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm sorry. I remind everyone that the times are already exhausted for Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura, Lega Nord e Autonomie e Grandi Autonomie e Libertà groups. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u285	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u286	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u287	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, we ask that we sign Amendment No 1,206, first signed by Senator Dalì, who says a sacrosanct truth: for far too long the government, not only the Renzi one, but the habit has begun with the Monti Government, makes tax levies for the benefit of the state coffers, but calls the mayors to make the tax collectors on behalf of the State. It is right that citizens should know to which body, in this case the State, the resources are being plundered. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] It is not right that the concept is always passed that it is only the mayors the bad predators of the pockets now emptied of the poor Italian taxpayers. The North League vote will therefore be in favour. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u288	Having signed it, I thought it was favorable.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u289	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u290	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u291	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, by asking to be able to add my and my Group's signature to Amendment No 1,206, I openly declare support for an amendment which at least makes things clear. Given that the municipalities are only collectors, if the State identifies an unfair tax, that it is the State that is directly responsible to citizens and agricultural enterprises.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u292	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u293	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u294	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, I would also ask you to accept Amendment 1,206.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u295	Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,206, tabled by Senators D'Ali and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,104 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1.105, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,105, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,106 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,107 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,108 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,110 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1,112, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators, identical to Amendments Nos 1,113, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators, and 1,114, tabled by Senator Ceroni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 1.117, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.117, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,115 has been withdrawn. [[Senator D'Alì points out that he wants to intervene]] Senator Fravezzi, do you accept the call for the withdrawal of amendment 1,116? D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I signed Amendment No 1,115 this morning and I insist on your vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're right, Senator D'Alì. Senator Fravezzi, do you reply to Amendment 1,116? FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Mr President, I withdraw it, partly because the content has been absorbed by Amendment No 1,107, which has already been adopted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We therefore move on to Amendment No 1,115, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote, made by Senator D'Alì, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u296	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u297	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u298	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Amendment No 1,115, which I have signed, is sacrosanct, my lords. Since the Government has just made a preventive cut, the amendment simply says that if the calculation of the Government is not equivalent to the revenue then established, this refreshment to the Municipality must be given. Not only is the municipality required to be a tax collector, but even if this tax were to have a lower established revenue than the cut, should this cut not be refunded? But let me see what country we live in. I think it is sacrosanct that the municipality is compensated for this difference and it is not compensation within the solidarity fund, Mr President, it is a subject of different substance. We are talking about different amounts between the cut and the actual established tax, so it is not countervailable within the solidarity fund.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u299	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u300	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u301	Mr Fornaro (PD). We have a different view with Mr D'Ali, we have discussed this a lot in the Commission. The reason why Mrs Chiavaroli, who worked in the Commission, had withdrawn it was that she considered it to be included in amendment 1,108 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u302	Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,115, withdrawn by Senator Chiavaroli and maintained by Senator D'Alì. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us move on to Amendment No 1.118, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,118, tabled by Senator Bottici and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 1,207, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u303	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u304	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u305	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, before I put this amending proposal to the vote, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members - as my colleague Mr D'Alì has already done - to the paradoxical effect that is being created, unfairly releasing responsibility for the collection of unfair taxation to the municipalities. A government that puts a tax and hides the hand is a government that does not want to take responsibility for its own choices or that wants to continue to make the Italians believe that a process of growth has begun that will lead us - hopefully - out of the crisis, when instead for sure, in these parliamentary classrooms, every day, in every decree-law, we record an increase of that fiscal pressure that today comes down on a sector already delicate and fragile like that of our agriculture. It is a fragile and delicate sector because, despite having diamond tips, which sometimes lead us to believe that the numbers of growth are at hand, in reality there is a widespread emergency on prices that is leading to the abandonment of entire types of crops that can no longer be on the market. Similarly, in the most dramatic effects of this imposition, we will find, from now on, the actual, physical abandonment of lands which, if cultivated and cured, bring a direct and indirect benefit to the State, but which, if abandoned, also produce economic damage to the State on its own territories, which is worth much more than the taxation that we want to adopt today. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Of course, ma'am. The logic of the capital tax applied to agriculture, however, in this text is framed by reference to those municipalities that see assigned by an administrative act the value they will have to collect; if instead they do not collect it, they will have a damage and a loss all in their own hands. I do not think that colleagues who, like me and like all of us, live in their Municipalities do not know that there are some who will in some way be favored. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't make me take your word for it, Senator, finish. BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Allow me to conclude, Mr President: you will be grateful, as this is the only speech I ask you to make here on this day in an explanation of vote on one amendment. It is an amendment that highlights how there will be municipalities that are lucky enough to have crops that, although on the hill - and therefore, in theory, even partially exempted - produce very high incomes, while other municipalities, which have lowland agricultural territories, with very different profitability, as my colleagues from the Agriculture Commission teach me, will be doubly penalized, along with their farmers, and we will no longer find in those municipalities the resources we think should be there in order to guarantee services to the citizens. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u306	Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,207, tabled by Senator Bonfrisco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.1, tabled by Senator Ruvolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.2 will not be put to the vote. On the agenda G.1.3 there is an invitation to withdraw: do you insist on the vote, Senator Bottici?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u307	It seems to me that the matter has already been included in the amendments that have been adopted and, therefore, withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u308	That is exactly what the rapporteur was asking for. Agenda G1.4 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.5, tabled by Senator Scoma. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On the agenda, Mr G1,100, did you propose a rewording, Senator Bertuzzi, to accept it? BERTUZZI (PD). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G1,100 (text 2), G1,101 and G1,102 will not be put to the vote. Amendment 1.0.1 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1.0.1000 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.0.2 has been withdrawn. Amendment 1.0.4 was absorbed by the adoption of amendment 1.107. Let us move on to amendment 1.0.200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.200, tabled by Senator de Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.0.201, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.201, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be explained by the expiry of the time limit. If anyone wants to speak, they will be able to do so in the vote. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments before us.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u309	I am against Amendments 2.1, 2.2, 2.0.4, 2.0.6, 2.0.18, 2.0.20 and 2.0.32 (they all have the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution). As regards the amendments tabled on the draft conversion law, the opinion is against amendment x1.1/100 and in favour of amendment x1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u310	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u311	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1, on which the 5th Commission has voted against under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u312	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u313	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u314	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). I asked for the amendment to be signed because point (a) reproduces, as far as coverage is concerned, what I proposed in Amendment 1.1. This prevents part of the coverage required for certain exemptions laid down in this Decree-Law from being taken from agricultural funds. The dog must bite himself in order to be considered. Normally incentives in all other sectors are financed by levies from general taxation or, even, in other sectors; agriculture remains the only sector which, when exempted or encouraged, has to cover with its own funds, in this case the subject of a capital tax. In this case, therefore, we will vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u315	Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Bellot and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.0.4 tabled by Senator Ceroni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.0.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.0.6 tabled by Senator Ceroni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.0.18, tabled by Senator Ceroni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.0.20, tabled by Senator Ceroni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.32, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the proposal is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The proposal is supported). In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.0.32 tabled by Senator Ceroni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now turn to the amendments tabled to the draft conversion law, which are described and on which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government have already given their opinion. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment x1.1/100, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment x1.1 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The examination of the amendments is thus exhausted. I propose a ten-minute technical suspension. The sitting is therefore suspended until 8.35 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 8.22 p.m. and resumed at 8.35 p.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u316	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u317	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u318	RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, I am struggling to make this explanation of vote, for a very simple reason. We have tabled a lot of amendments, some of which I think are very appropriate and also responsible, one reproposing behind the other: we have moved on from the total exemption from the IMU, which we have obviously largely justified - and I repeat again that, in the case of agricultural land, these are capital goods - to the last amendment that has been rejected by this House, by this majority and of course by the Government, which reduced taxation to a minimum for those who do not achieve an agricultural income of EUR 15,000. Unfortunately, it didn't help. The government and the majority today managed to make a great masterpiece. This decree-law, in the light of what has been the amending phase, I would not call it agricultural IMU, Madam President: I would call it 'decreto fare cassa', to the detriment of farmers, to the detriment of farmers, to the detriment of farmers, to the detriment of agricultural owners. It really comes from shouting to those who really know the world of agriculture. I will try to express myself in all the forms that I have allowed myself, limiting not the insults, which are not my custom, but the extravagances, which this Government and this majority also induce us. He's about to be fired. Of course, I am also, and above all, addressing those who are outside this House to listen: many, many messages have arrived that have urged us to see what we could bring home. But this text has only one objective: to kill Italian agriculture. But what competitiveness? I often hear Mr Martina talk about important initiatives for agriculture, but they are only announcements, not facts. Competitiveness means putting our businesses and farms in a position to compete with other countries, at least European ones. There is no trace of this. What happened in the meantime? I appeal to those who are not attentive to the world of agriculture. The excise duty on agricultural diesel has increased. Agricultural social security contributions are the highest in Europe. I can also illustrate - I have already done so on other occasions - the difference between a French farmer, a German farmer, a Spanish farmer and an Italian farmer. The final result, the diaphragm, in a straight line, is exactly as follows: the Italian farmer pays 35%; the German pays 3.2 percent; in France the contributions paid by farmers are less than 1%, not to mention Spain, where the cost is zero. I would ask you to check these figures, and I am addressing the Government in particular, and once again, Madam President, I regret the absence of the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy and his delegates, who is truly indignant. I merely consider how much love it feeds on this agriculture! Italian farmers and our farms therefore pay the highest share in Europe. And where should competitiveness come from? Not to mention the various costs, the increases that reach 20%, from fertilizers to agricultural machinery, to everything that is needed for agriculture. And then you want to invest in youth entrepreneurship! Of course, some significant measures have been taken, but their implementation is a tragedy. But what generational replacement do you want to implement, taxing the agricultural world even more? Common sense says this: when you charge taxes on agricultural land, the devaluation is in things, because who goes to buy a good on which weighs a very heavy tax like the one you are going to apply? And then, the young farmers, who want to understand if they have a prospect in agriculture, are put in a position to escape. As I pointed out in the general debate, Madam President, the Minister for Agriculture has emphasized a hypothesis of agreement with the Mediterranean countries. We'll be invaded one more time. Other than Italian Mediterranean agriculture! But do you realize what we're talking about? I remember once again the agreement on agricultural production between the European Union and Morocco: passing on to the head of the government before this, something really shameful has been done, so now products come from all the countries overlooking the Mediterranean, on whose food security I let you think! What did we propose? Why not entrust to the municipalities or, if you like, to the regions the imposition of the agricultural IMU? The reason is very simple: if a municipality or a region wants to invest in agriculture, it will not burden the agricultural world with this violence. We give them responsibility and we will get the direct knowledge of the territory: the land that produces, what does not produce, what has been abandoned. Why not predict this? We proposed it to you, but nothing. We had to move on! You do it. Then, one day, someone will notice. Now farmers, those who will have to pay, do not notice because, as long as we speak, no one understands what it is and everyone hopes that things will not be as they seem. And when the accounts and bills to be paid arrive, those on the territory like so many of us, and they put their chests out, they will not be able to explain what happened in this House, because tomorrow everything will be forgotten, tomorrow we will no longer talk about agriculture. On the contrary, agriculture will be annoying: better to do as fast as you have done so far, making us work up to this hour. How many times have I heard, in the various talks with colleagues in the majority... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ruvolo, finish. RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). I will finish now, Madam President. How many times have I heard that there are no resources. May I make a suggestion, hoping it will be accepted? One. Since July 2014, exactly four months after the beginning of this legislature, the Agriculture Commission, on a text presented by Senator Pignedoli and signed by all of us unanimously, for the reorganization of the vigilant bodies... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u319	Senator Ruvolo, you've finished the ten minutes. I would ask you to conclude the sentence and deliver your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u320	RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, if you will allow me, I would like to speak for a moment with the vigilantes of the Ministry of Agriculture. Since July 2014 everything is still, all blocked. Then there comes one measure, then another, this and then that. He's just a clientele politician, not looking at what that agency does. These are bodies that waste public money! It's certified. I am not saying that just to say something in this House. My colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture are well aware of this. Everything stopped, because they are untouchable shrines [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)]] But then there is no possibility of exempting farmers from the payment of the IMU, even if they are in extreme conditions. I shall conclude, Madam President, and I ask you to forgive me. What's going on now? What happened a few hours ago? And I'm not talking about my territory, because it's already happened. There are still floods of rivers, flooded citrus groves, flooded land, huge damage, and there is no way of intervening, except for the rapporteur's proposal to table an agenda. Since I've been in Parliament, and now it's been so many, so many years, I know that agendas don't matter to anyone. I would therefore like to say, and thank you again, Mr President, my vote and that of my Group strongly against this measure. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u321	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u322	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u323	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am addressing the Government and colleagues. We've come to the end of this bad story. Certainly this is a measure which, from the outset, has seen our opposition, our opposition, but also our willingness, especially in the Commission, to try to change at least the ugliness, the distortions contained in it, but also the iniquities, the differences that are created within the same sector, that of agriculture, on territories that often have similar difficulties. We are convinced that there is no point in taxing agriculture and then wanting to relaunch it, giving it a space in a market not only internal but also international, making known our excellences, our products, which, among other things, represent the flywheel to give prominence and resources to territories subject to great tourist promotion. Let us remember that, behind a large agriculture, large farms and therefore a use of land to produce fundamental goods for the whole country, there is also a particular care of the territory, a tourist attraction and, therefore, an important induced that, by penalising agriculture, is destined to reduce its potential. The League proposed important and sensible amendments, which had no obstructive nature, but only constructive, and went in the direction of the requests of the territories which, suddenly, at the end of the race, were faced with a rule that penalized them both at the level of private individuals and municipal administrators. Once again, it is a measure that affects agriculture and penalises it with important figures. I was saying this morning that one billion is the price that agriculture has paid to this Government so far: one billion in cuts, in fake benefits, in fake tax exemptions and in fake concessions to relaunch this sector, especially for young people, and then deleted in other ways a little less gallant. As proof of this, I read you some figures. The tax measures on agriculture amount to about 1 billion, all on the agricultural IMU. There are EUR 40 million in TASI tax on rural and instrumental buildings. The revaluation of dominical incomes obviously leads to an increase in taxation. With the decree competitiveness are approximately 50 million euros. There are also IRPEF rules for the non-growing of funds of 17 million and the taxation of agro-energy in agriculture of 36 million. Finally, in the 2015 Stability Act, there is a further reduction in standard average consumption of diesel to be allowed to use a reduced rate in agriculture, amounting to 160 million. By adding up all this, I believe that agriculture can only say that it has had a great penalty. Consequently, we can only hope that this Government, apart from the wishes, the aid and the clear indications that we have proposed, will be willing to give concrete answers. Obviously this measure will pass, it will be voted, it will be carried out with the representation of those who are still living in the territories that suffer. We therefore do not understand, at all, this desire to reconfirm what the Government is carrying out erraticly. Clearly we are convinced that there is a team game: when good Renzi gives the order, the team runs. We believe, however, that there is someone who still has common sense and must use it. Maybe, when you are with a neighbor who has difficulty paying taxes at the end of the month, with crops that do not make what they have to make, with floods and natural disasters that have destroyed a year of hard work, low back, or maybe covered activities always related to agriculture (from mud, rain or anything else), maybe you should put a hand on your conscience and say that this measure must not be voted on, not to penalise this resource yet. I am referring to who represents the Government, but not here. I am talking about President Renzi and those in the government who have to draw conclusions and take what are clear criticisms (to call them very lightly). We believe that it is only a false will to protect the territories, the agricultural sector and the young people who - as you say - want to insert them into agriculture, perhaps leading them to invest and to get help from families or from those close to them, in order to be able to carry out a dream. It is not easy, in fact, to work in this world and in this sector. It is a different world, which involves sacrifices and represents, especially for young people, a substantial change of life. Invite them to come closer to this world, and then take away their help, their defiscalizations and all the mundane possibilities of getting to the goal, honestly it seems to me a really bad thing, to say the least. Certainly, for our part, all this work can only be considered satisfactory, for what tomorrow our people will ask us, because we can clearly say that every amendment was aimed solely at the maintenance of the territories (mountain, not mountain and hilly) and, therefore, of agriculture. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I am referring to the maintenance of the territories also from the point of view of the garrison, the management and the control. We cannot think that there are landslides, landslides and environmental disasters, when perhaps the mountain has no way of being lived and, therefore, clean and protected. Then we complain that people do not take over these territories. You have really crossed the line, because you do not allow these people to live the territories: take away services, take away the vital reality of these communities. For our part, the vote is clearly against. We are strongly opposed to such a measure. However, we will continue to fight, hoping that there will be the will and ability of the Government to re-evaluate in a subsequent measure the slaughter you are doing. Therefore, we hope that there will be another opportunity and we are here to offer our work and our willingness to be proactive again, as we have done so far. Actually we ask this Government to reconsider, to carry out an ad hoc measure for agriculture, to give this sector the possibility of a revival, so that it is still a flywheel for the economy of our country. The North League will therefore vote against, strongly convinced that you are wrong. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u324	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u325	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u326	FRAVEZZI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the measure before us is in fact the result of a troubled regulatory process, which concerned the issue of exemption from the IMU for agricultural land. This has been extensively explained by the rapporteur, and we have had the opportunity and opportunity to discuss it in the Commission. I think that, beyond the exercise of well-offness or the great possibilities that everyone would have liked to put in place (including the Government) if we had an economic framework that would allow it, an effort has been made which - in our opinion - must be made and examined positively. I say this by referring to the extension of the time limits for the payment of the tax, which is also subject to repeated pressure. Acts of inspection union have been presented - we have done so in several colleagues - and it must be noted that the Government has intervened. And he also intervened to correct the effects of the Ministerial Decree of November 2014 - as has been said this afternoon - which actually created problems and established questionable criteria as well as rather questionable unequal treatment. We are certainly trying to remedy this and we must take note of the effort we have made. The audience of the municipalities has expanded and, therefore, also the territories that will benefit from the exemptions. Efforts have also been made on those intermediate territories, in the less-favoured hills. There has also been an increase in the number of beneficiaries: the role of full-time farmers and those who are members of the agricultural insurance system has been recognised in particular. Therefore, an effort has certainly been made to take on also many criticisms that we have heard today regarding the fact that this is a strategic sector for the country, which has grown in terms of employment. And of course this could be done in a framework of economic compatibility that is before everyone's eyes. It is good to remember the difficulties that, until recently, we have gone through and are still going through. However, we hope that in the future we can - as in many of the agendas that have been accepted by the Government - meet agriculture, and not only that. In fact, I would like to extend the reasoning also to other sectors that we have not talked about today, that are crafts, small companies, i.e. capital goods, as are the campaigns - again in this case we have presented acts of inspection union or solicitations to the government - which we consider strategic precisely to increase growth and employment. These are objectives that I think we can all share. Then, those who govern do so with the picture of what are the resources available. I think that the work that has been done - and I would like to acknowledge this, having participated in the work in particular of the 5th and, in part, of the 6th Commission - also in terms of regulatory and legal attention precisely to coordinate the texts (even in the light of the requests from our offices), is positive in my opinion and will certainly be able to give a breath of oxygen to the beneficiary territories, while for others, since the exemption will be partial, it is still a signal. I would like to acknowledge the work of both the rapporteur and the Undersecretary on a specific issue concerning the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano: I am referring to IMI and IMIS, the two taxes that are equivalent to the IMU for companies, which have been granted the possibility of deductible 20% precisely because, precisely, it does not involve charges on the Erario. Having said that, I conclude by announcing, on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, our vote in favour, having appreciated the effort made to meet and re-discipline the matter relating to this tax, which is actually not pleasant to pay. We must, however, bear in mind the difficult situation of the municipalities and the State which, until recently, was to say the least dramatic, and perhaps it is good to remind us all of that. [[Applause from the Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u327	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u328	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u329	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I would like to thank my fellow senators who are listening to me and the representatives of the Government. This morning, before coming to the Chamber, I went to Montecitorio Square where there was yet another demonstration, yet another meeting of farmers who were demonstrating against the decree-law that we are going to vote on today. In addition to me, I believe that other colleagues have also gone there, with the anomaly that perhaps this evening will vote in favour of an approach that does not convince me. That of farmers, Madam President, is a category to which the government, particularly in these times, should very much - I believe almost everything - and certainly not this unreasonable and unbearable leap. We are faced with a tax thought in a wrong way first and structured - if you can say so - in an even worse way then. The decree-law on the agricultural IMU that we are discussing today is, in fact, marked by an original sin: in order to guarantee at all costs the famous 80 euros, we had to find - and therefore subtract - resources from anywhere else, scraping everywhere. So, as in a tragic waltz tour, the price of a much announced bonus is paid with the proceeds also deriving from this tax that everyone considers unfair and unfair. However, the further insulting damage has been caused by the choice of the exemption criterion that accompanies the decree-law in question; a choice that today leads us to vote on this insufficient correction and that I do not feel I am putting forward in a different way. Nor does it convince me, in order to change my judgment, the reply of my colleague and friend Fornaro - I don't want to - in which he basically states that the original decree-law on the IMU exempted about 1,500 municipalities, then came this which exempts 4,000 and then the work in the Commission makes us touch 6,000. I don't think that's the reasoning we have to make. While appreciating the effort made in the Commission, the reasoning we have to make is whether agricultural IMU is a tax that stands, has its own valid justification, has a ratio, or whether it is a sort of Manzoni plague that the same majority is now trying to isolate. This is the question to ask before passing to the merit of a decree-law that proves as yet another case in which the patch is worse than the hole. I do not mean here to exquisitely and repetitively on the importance and the structural and substantial interest that should have, in our country, the primary sector. One of the many things I have been able to learn from my previous institutional commitment to the agricultural resources of my region, which led me to work constantly alongside agricultural organizations and to come into contact with individuals and simple farmers, is that the future of our country is built - and rebuilt - by helping to remove stones and neglect, both real and figurative, from our land, to plow this land of ours to allow the growth of fruits, the recovery of a solid agricultural culture, which is identity but also potential for growth and competitive value for the country. It is a reality, that of Italian agriculture, made of extraordinary stories, that need support, more attention, protection, that certainly is not in the possibility to face the payment of what has all the characteristics to be defined a real asset, that in other directions you do not want to put, but we happen to put it on who produces the food. Then I try to briefly repeat things that are known. The economic crisis has devoured entire productive sectors in our country; the primary one, however - ISTAT constantly reminds us for a few years - has been able to resist better to this insatiable Cerbero, but it is certainly not immune in any way from the effects that this crisis produces. It is also necessary to remind us that those who work the land is not a financial speculator, an agent that impoverishes our country perhaps by delocalizing: those who work the earth clearly contributes to the real production of the wealth of the country, a wealth that goes far beyond the contribution that, in contrast to other sectors, enriches and supports the figures of national GDP. Agriculture in Italy follows a very particular declination. In Italy, those who work the land are first of all guardians and bearers of a tradition, of a culture. Its role is indispensable, because, at times, it is unique and last garrison of an entire territory. And how can we forget the occupational value of the agricultural sector, parachute history - thanks to the spread of the family business - for those excluded from other productive sectors? If this had been the case, probably the idea of taxing agricultural land would never have found room or reason. How can we support this new tribute when more and more evident are the criticalities that Italy suffers compared to hydrogeological failure, when our territories appear increasingly fragile and heavily affected by weather and phytosanitary disasters? How many pathologies, the xylella in Puglia teaches, risk attacking our cultural heritage if we do not guarantee the subsistence conditions that help the permanence of our entrepreneurs in the field? The care of the territory is overwhelmingly at the heart of the political agenda of any government, but more should be for Italy: we have the need no longer procrastinable to establish a rule that limits the consumption of the soil; the inauguration of the Expo a few weeks from today speaks to us of land, food and future; the defence of the Made in Italy passes and feeds on the vast quantity and quality of our agri-food products. Here, therefore, the application of a tax on what is the instrumental good par excellence appears completely anachronistic: the earth. All this, perhaps not well known to the Government, is happening at a very delicate time, characterized by a contraction in the resources that the European Union grants to our farmers in the form of income support through the so-called first pillar of the Community's agricultural policy. A contraction that joins a widening of the audience of the people and the crops receiving the aid, that is to say a decrease in the transfers per capita; transfers that, however, exist and that, instead of supporting the incomes of our farms, seem to serve to pay the new taxes, even the assets. However, we have tried to limit the negative effects of this measure. But as always, even on this occasion, the Government has left unheard and ignored all our efforts, all the suggestions. No room has been given to remedy a criterion assumed for taxation which continues not to take into account the actual profitability of agricultural assets and which leaves room for unacceptable inequalities between the different areas of the country and between the different productive sectors of the sector. And then, we do not understand the reason for denying the exemption to those territories hit by disasters - I remember Gargano, because I know him more closely, and the President of the 5th Commission should also know it, you will allow me to say - but I do not forget Tuscany, Liguria, Veneto, to name but a few. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Stephen. STEFANO (Misto-SEL). I still believe it to be a reasonable proposal, an answer capable of reflecting a real interest after the many, and sometimes unbearable, rebounds and discharges of responsibility. This could have been an opportunity, an instrument of solidarity and tangible understanding of the State towards the stakeholders. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. STEFANO (Misto-SEL). I was convinced, for example, in the case of xylella, that the Commission had understood the seriousness of the current epidemic and was willing to share, support and take on board initiatives aimed at containing the effects of the current emergency, but obviously they decided otherwise. I am sorry then, in conclusion, to have to look with a sense of frustration as a legislator, to the corrective and almost salvific function that administrative justice can have, to the rain of appeals made to the various TARs in the face of the impossibility of the legislative pen to correct the errors of the majority. I refer therefore to the vote against the Mixed-SEL Group and my staff to a measure that, working with confusion, creates iniquity and is thought only to make cash, without any attention to the maintenance of the territory and its fundamental function of instrumental good for the production of food. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u330	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u331	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u332	CHIAVAROLI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, the Group of the People's Area-New Right-Right-UDC Group will vote in favour of this measure. Of course, we too share some of the comments made in this House, in particular the notation made by Mr Formigoni, President of the Agriculture Commission, that agricultural land is an essential instrument for the farmer and that, for this reason, this tribute lends itself to being particularly hateful. It is no coincidence that in 2013 Minister De Girolamo suspended the payment of this tax for the first instalment and then, for the second, for farmers and direct farmers. The demands of public finance then led in the following year - as has been well remembered - to re-introduce a part of the levy on the category. However, we appreciate the effort made with this decree because in the meantime it reduces the levy from EUR 359 million to EUR 268 million: this is already a great effort that is being made and we appreciate it for this. Moreover, it makes clarity with regard to classification, taxable persons and territories subject to tax, introducing more linear criteria, such as those of the mountain municipalities and those that are partially taxable. It also extends the payment of the tax to 10 February. The decree, which therefore already brings a substantial improvement on the situation, has been further and considerably improved by all the work done in the Finance Commission, thanks to which first of all it will be possible to pay the tax for 2014 by 31 March 2015 without sanctions or interest. This is a particularly important initiative because in 2014, when it was decided to raise resources in mid-year by re-introduction of this tax, a clear violation of the Taxpayer's Statute was committed, which provides that the tax will enter from the following year. In this way, allowing us to pay for 2014 until 31 March, we believe that we have met the needs of taxpayers. Moreover, the Commission's work means that taxpayers, who have paid on the basis of the classification made by the interministerial decree of November and who do not have to pay on the basis of the new classification, are entitled to reimbursement and compensation. It also corrects for the few smaller islands left out of the exemption, introducing it. Finally, again for 2014, it inserts a very important rule for the municipalities that would risk having great cash liquidity difficulties and therefore inserts the possibility to make a verification of the real revenue by 30 September and possibly compensate the municipalities for the lower real revenue they have. Finally, for 2015 a great effort has been made for which I thank the Government, the Undersecretary Zanetti who followed the measure, because in 2015 we were also able to take into account the areas that fall within the so-called disadvantaged hill, whose direct farmers and professional agricultural entrepreneurs would be subject to tax. We have managed to introduce a EUR 200 franchise and we believe that we have partially alleviated the load on these disadvantaged areas, but in an important way. There are also other small but important improvements that concern the land to agro-silvo-pastoral destination, of which we have spoken to collective property, undivided and inusuitable. For all these reasons and, therefore, for the great work that the Senate has done, we will vote in favour, but the commitment of the People's Area Group (NCD-UDC) will continue because we will fight for the abolition of this tax. We really think it is a hateful and unbearable leap forward for this category and, therefore, we will seize the debate that will take place on the local tax to assert these reasons. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Di Biagio. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u333	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u334	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u335	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, this decree is yet another act by the Renzi Government, which has now adapted Parliament's legislative power. If you use it at least well, it would be a pleasure for the whole of Italy, but instead it uses it lightly and roughly. Why do I say that? Because we started from a rule that exempts agricultural land from the payment of the ICI, then last amended by Decree No 66 of 2014, reaching today to create inequality and discrimination between citizens, between mountain municipalities, partially mountain and hilly. Article 1 states that all agricultural land, including non-cultivated land, which insists in mountain municipalities, is exempt, whereas for partially mountainous municipalities, agricultural land owned and conducted by direct farmers and professional farmers is exempt, even if it is granted to them for hire or rent. This is already a first discrimination. Then we proceed to the application of the decree. The Ministerial Decree of 28 November 2014 established the exempt municipalities that today are no longer exempt from this rule. Therefore they are exempt from payment of the tax for the year 2014, but we do not think about reimbursement for those who paid and are exempt; we had to approve an amendment because we had lost it. For 2014 also land with agro-silvo-pastoral destination with indivisible and incomparable collective property is exempt, even if it does not fall into mountain or partially mountain areas. Here arises the first accounting problem: the amendment introduced by Decree-Law 24 April 2014, no. 66, paragraph 5-a, of Article 4 of Decree-Law 2 March 2012, no. 16, stipulated that the total annual revenue deriving from the new provisions (from which the ministerial decree of 28 November 2014 derives) should not be less than 350 million and that by ministerial decree the compensation for the minor income for those municipalities in which the agro-silvo-pastoral land insists. Taking into account that the expected revenue of the Ministerial Decree of 28 November 2014 was quantified in 359,5 million euros and that the amount needed for Decree-Law No 66 of 2014 was 350 million euros and that the coverages proposed in this Decree-Law are however quantified in 359,5 million euros, there are 9.5 million euros in excess: figure, according to us, fair and abundant to cover the exemption of the land to agro-silvo-pastoral destination. No, we are not: in the Commission we are informed that the surplus will certainly be used to compensate for the failure of some municipalities in which there are already a number of problems relating to the collection of the levy in question. Another accounting issue raised concerns the coverage for the 45 million arising pursuant to Article 49, paragraph 2, letter d), again of Decree-Law No 66 of 2014, i.e. the residual liabilities made available in the forecast state of the Ministry for agricultural, food and forestry policies, i.e. debts which have been prescribed, but of which there is no trace or list and, therefore, the security that that money has been made available again. Then we add that other resources (€45.2 million for 2015 and €31.9 million since 2016) are always taken from the facilities established for the agricultural sector. We do not understand how one can think and claim to support a sector in crisis, acting in this way. During this first year of Renzi Government, however, we learned that one thing is the premier's media propaganda and the other is the facts: strangely they never coincide. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] One thing, however, never changes: the Renzi Government's ability to include in the decree-laws arguments unrelated to the matter of the provision itself. In this it has inserted the extension of the time limits relative to the expiration of the fiscal delegation, going from 12 to 15 months. Honestly, if we still have to give time to the government to make legislative decrees with rules that then magically disappear, such as Article 19-bis (better known as the article of evasion up to 3%), better vote against. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In the Commission we tried to remind the Government that the territories in which hydrogeological disasters occurred, caused by calamitous events and the mismanagement of the territory, needed greater protection and attention, but our words were lost in the void. This morning we abstained in the vote on the preliminary and suspensive questions, thinking that the measure under consideration could represent a small step towards the protection of the agricultural sector, having brought some improvements to the Ministerial Decree of 28 November 2014, but listening to the debate in the Assembly and all the appeals launched even today by the different associations of category we want to reiterate our dry "no" to the IMU on agricultural land. So reminding the Government of its sole executive power, the 5 Star Movement will vote firmly against the conversion into law of the decree-law under consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u336	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u337	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u338	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, we cannot vote in favour of such a measure. With this decision, you are witnessing a time of enormous difficulty and crisis for the agricultural sector, if it is not already so. A series of measures have been adopted that overlap each other, all to the detriment of Italian agriculture, from measures on diesel oil to international treaties for the entry of foreign products, from this real patrimony on agriculture, to many other sums deducted from the funds of the Ministry of Agriculture, adding up, we arrive at the complete and definitive discouragement of the sector. The operators will abandon the land and certainly the property damage to the gross domestic product and to the same national taxation will be far greater than those few cents that have been rejected in order to be able to entirely exempt the sector from this capital tax. This is a tax government. This is a tax that, if ever needed, the debate clearly identified as a capital tax, because it does not meet any criterion of income tax and no criterion of differentiation according to the positions of the land other than those of the altimeters, and that perfectly follows, as happened for the taxes on the real estate, a dry and repeated capital criterion. I wonder where the government wants to get with the increase in tax pressure and I am sorry that there is someone trying to climb over the mirrors to say that it is not so; someone in his DNA certainly has a very different view of the tax structure of a country and above all of the fiscal oppression of a country. But you can't hide behind a finger or behind the screens. Today, from the first moment, there would have been an opportunity to close the speech - we would have been out of this debate for hours now - and to exempt the agricultural sector entirely from this tax, with a perfectly covered measure - had not been expressed opposition by the Budget Commission, pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution - with another type of revenue, legitimately acquired by sectors, which instead enjoy the continuous favor of the Government and Parliament, produce profits, combine environmental failures, often irreversible, but which are the sacred untouchable monsters of our economy or better of their economy. Faced with this pervicacy of the majority and members of the majority - who every time send us back saying that they will do anything to get rid of this type of tax, but in reality the tax remains, remains, stabilizes, increases for some sectors - we remain only conscious of having struggled, of having said in clear letters that we do not want a similar tax on the agricultural sector, when it is the majority parties who want it. These parties will have to explain to the citizens, farmers and even mayors. This, in fact, is the second truly aberrant aspect of the combined provisions of the decrees that have crossed over the agricultural sector in recent months, beyond the confusion that the rapporteur himself and the representatives of the majority have recognized, calling as soon as possible for a committee that can intervene to avoid not only all these bureaucratic burdens, but also confusions and uncertainties. I believe that from this decree-law will be born a series of infinite litigations on the altimeters, on the definition of disadvantaged hills, of "Comuni mountaini" or "partly mountaini." It is a joint venture that penalizes farmers and municipalities because this tax has been implemented by the Government on the accounts of the Municipalities with a preventive cut and then entrusted to the Municipalities as a substitute for tax to pay it, creating holes in the municipal budgets; cash holes, but also competence because, in the end, the residual liabilities of the non-payment of this tax will be incurred by the Municipalities, who will have to continuously enter losses in the budget due to the evasion or incapience of taxpayers citizens who should pay the tax to the Municipalities. I believe that farmers and mayors may have only one thing left to do. From that breach of Porta Pia that has marked the completion of the Unity of Italy, just cross the door and walk along the long road that bears the name of Via XX settembre and will first meet, on the left, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, on the right, the Ministry of Agriculture and finally the Quirinale: they choose where to deposit the mayors the tricolor bands and the farmers their work tools. They have a choice that, along with this director, certainly leads them, however, to a solution of tacit but significant protest. With this additional tax the Italian agriculture will die definitively, the value of the land will collapse, the profitability, the young will get further and further away from this possible occupation. Those few who still hold in the fields, for the sake of Homeland but only for this or for the honour of signing, as they say, are those pensioners, those workers, craftsmen who, at the end of the week lost, manage to devote themselves to their plot of land; they are the people of good will who still hold the hydrogeological fabric of the country in many areas of degradation, still hold a semblance of presence in the fields of the active population; they are those mayors who will have to compensate, as I said, for these disadvantages, the mayors of the small municipalities, where the relationship between agricultural land and urban areas is very unbalanced quantitatively in favor of agricultural land, which therefore will have a reduction of their revenues absolutely exorbitant compared to their budgets. Faced with this picture, I do not know what the majority will want to do and what the government will want to do. The way forward is certainly not to go abroad and talk about a Parliament that makes preventive obstruction. In fact, we have now reached the concept of preventive obstruction: we choose the path of decree-laws because there is a forecast of obstruction in Parliament. We have come to the process of intention and the democratic drift is becoming more and more consistent in the behaviour of our Government. Of course, going abroad and talking about growth in this country means only talking about tax growth. Of course, going abroad and talking about growth in this country means only talking about tax growth. Other countries of Europe know growth thanks not only to the virtuous policies of their citizens, because Italians do not lack the ability to work and produce, but also to the interventions of their governments, which in Italy absolutely lacks. So what else do we expect, if not a vibrant protest from Italian farmers? A strong censure on those who want to impose a new and heavy capital tax and those who have done nothing in this House to prevent this from happening. Beyond the efforts I repeat commendable, of which I must acknowledge the rapporteur for having sought among the folds of a budget so exhausted that already in February he exhausted the special reserve funds. As I said today, I wonder what the consequences would be for a mayor - and therefore the President-in-Office of the Council who considers himself the mayor of Italy, but he has other experiences than that of the municipal administration - under these conditions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). A mayor should immediately resign for running out of reserve funds as early as February and have failed to comply with the 12th criterion! Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of Forza Italia will be able to vote with determination and I must say, at this moment, also with anger against this decree; the anger to see once again mortified an economic sector such as that of agriculture, a sector once said primary, now primary only in economic dictionaries and certainly not in your consideration, which is willingly moving towards a further depletion of its resources. I repeat that we are going to vote strongly against this, which others will not do and have not even wanted to do about the amendments. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u339	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u340	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u341	Rossi Gianluca (PD). Madam President, first of all I would like to thank the President of the Commission, the rapporteur and all the members of the various parliamentary groups, for, as Senator D'Alì last mentioned, work has been done to try to improve this measure, which was born in a controversial way, as has been said, from a ministerial decree of last November. I believe that some positive results have been achieved, which I would like to stress because in fact all the parliamentary groups have recognised this, both those who will vote in favour and the others. A first positive element is that we have given an answer, contrary to the past, to the IMU which is not a suspension, a buffer solution or a postponement. On the contrary, Parliament has assured taxpayers and local authorities with its work certainties and guarantees of a lasting, fair and equitable rule. Obviously everything is perfectible, as has been pointed out, beyond the extreme demagogy of some interventions on which I will return. However, as I said, we have achieved important goals. First of all we reached them with the decree, which corrected the distortions of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers to which reference was made, completely exempting 3,500 municipalities and partially 655 municipalities partially mountain, that is half of the Italian municipalities. And then, thanks to the work of the Commission, the rapporteur and the Government, which I too would like to thank, we have spoken on that so-called disadvantaged hill, guaranteeing a relief of 200 euros for 1,600 Italian municipalities that are added to the 4,000 mentioned above. Then we achieved important improvements to the text. I am referring first of all to the expiry of the payment for 2014, collective property and the smaller islands, which I see become a collective domain. We have also highlighted positively and raised a call for the ANCI on the evaluation of revenue at 30 September next actually collected by the municipalities. There are also a number of agendas, which I do not quote briefly (the Members did so and the rapporteur did so in his reply), which improved the text. In fact, we reach over 5,500 municipalities which, between the total exemption, the partial exemption and the exemption, represent a significant improvement and meet those demands that the debate has shown us. However, I would like to focus on two aspects: the first is the issue of agriculture. I do not think we can deal with this issue in such a general way; it is a demagogic way that we reject, because we believe it represents an old assisted position, which no longer makes sense of the reality of the country and of the agricultural reality. We must distinguish between the small farmer, the farmer and the land rent, which are diametrically opposed. One account is one, one account is the other. We have tried, on an agenda, to give continuity in a direct family line, to give a sense of attention to the agricultural world and to good agriculture, that quality agriculture on which we bet and on which I believe the Government should be careful. I do not believe that the issue is to define a contribution of EUR 270 million as an asset, partly because - as I say to some colleagues - the asset cannot be an objective every other day. One day it can be there and one day it can not be there; one day it is the asset on the agricultural IMU and one day it is the asset on the house. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] On the contrary, we must address an important element that emerged from the general discussion, namely that of the overall tax architecture, even here overcoming delays and demagogies of this twenty years in a truly federalist and not chattering perspective. In my opinion, it is appropriate to be able to provide that each level of government should have only one tribute for the municipalities, for example on a real estate basis, and for the IRPEF-based regions, together with IRPEF and VAT partnerships. This would allow for an own and easier form of autonomy on the one hand and a direct relationship with the taxpayer citizen on the other. For this reason we are also asking the Government to speed up the process of reform towards a real local tax, with choices of economic policy and redistribution of income to be operated by means of this specific tax, of which it appears central, as for the real estate and as provided for by the fiscal delegation, the no longer postponed revision of the land rents, more than the usual tiresome controversy on the assets. In conclusion, Madam President, we think that putting local taxation back into the system is one of the most heartfelt issues. At a time when the system of social protection from the ashes of the Second World War is crumbling, it is essential that we be able to design, as we are doing, a new tax system. It is not so important that this controversy about the government of taxes, who pays taxes or who does not have to pay them, but it is important that we use taxation, local taxation, as well as general taxation. It is also for these reasons that the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u342	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for coordination C1. Verification of the CANDIANI quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Resumption of discussion of draft law No 1749 PRESIDENT. Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by the Commission. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the final vote. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, made up of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 4 of 24 January 2015 on urgent measures relating to IMU exemption. Extension of time limits for the exercise of the delegation in respect of the revision of the tax system (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u343	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u344	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u345	[[Brusio.]] I pray to those who do not want to listen to us move away from this House. Mr Pagliari (PD). Madam President, I have asked for the floor because I would like to point out to the House that, having made a request for access to documents on admission to the medical specialization school, after submitting a question, I have heard an answer from the Director-General of the Ministry of Education, University and Research, in a letter without date, without protocol and, as far as it counts, without greetings, that I have no interest in access to documents and that, unlike city councillors, I do not have this title as a Member of Parliament because there is no law that gives Members the right of access to documents. Now, I think this is a very serious matter. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u346	Senator, you're having a hard time talking, but we all struggle like this. I have asked, please, that those who wish to listen should remain in the Chamber while others go away without making any noise.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u347	Mr Pagliari (PD). I believe that this is a very serious issue, because it undermines the constitutional rights of Members of Parliament. I have already presented the matter to Mr Giannini, who has assured me of an intervention. I would also ask the President of the Senate to intervene, because the problem is not the denial of the right of access to me (then, which I will also come to legal action, if I am not given the documents), but that it is not acceptable for a Director-General of a Ministry, in the face of a request for access to documents by a Member of Parliament, to say that this Member has no interest in asking for access to documents, that if he wants to carry out his duties he should do an interrogation, a question or a motion, as well as, as there is no law that provides (as for municipal councillors) for the right of access, he has no right to access to acts: it is a very serious violation of constitutional rights. I hope that the President of the Senate will formally take a position on this issue, not in defence of my position, which I will take care of, but because it is a vulnus to the status of the Member of Parliament. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u348	I will make the matter absolutely clear to the President of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u349	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u350	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u351	SCIBONA (M5S). Madam President, we have seen the images and videos of Dutch fans, the testimonies bouncing from the press to the news, in Italy and abroad. The questions are obviously wasted, starting with the question of how the Italian public security authorities underestimated the problem even before it arose. Could there have been no information? Could it be that you didn't do a preventive intelligence job? In addition to non-prevention, we have seen unimaginable scenes. The fans were left free to devastate Campo de' Fiori, but then above all free, immediately after, to reach Piazza di Spagna and give life to a street guerrilla, in the midst of frightened tourists, to irreparably damage one of Bernini's most precious and priceless monuments; then again at Villa Borghese, where they were loaded on public transport, obviously damaged too! We saw an unarmed police, who used a soft attitude: no tear gas, some sporadic charge when the situation was already irreparably in place. I can only make a comparison with the treatment that the police dedicate to the No TAV, Italian citizens who manifest their thoughts on a work, indeed a waste of public money, protected by Article 21 of the Constitution. At those events we see armored, hydrating, massive use of tear gas with a wide range of artifices, from chilli to dangerous for the health tear gas CS, abundant use of the baton and charges: not the so-called charges of lightening, but those made to strike and tramortize. For the No TAVs trains are blocked, so as not to allow them to reach the demonstrations; stations are armored, even limiting access to public bathrooms. The No TAV in Rome, in the last event, were closed in Piazza Campo de' Fiori, surrounded without escape. You even think that in the Europa League meeting between Turin and Athletic it was enough that from the stands appeared the flag symbol of the fight at high speed, above all in the sector occupied by the guests, to create panic between police forces and stewards, until the consequent intervention of the Digos and threats of DASPO and distrust. Of course, in these episodes that I quote there was no harm of any kind, also because these protesters expressed an opinion, unlike Dutch fans who had the only intention of venting themselves with violence, prey to the fumes of alcohol. This is crazy! There is no incompetence here: here there is a conscious deviant management, unacceptable for a state that still wants to call itself democratic! Why this difference in treatment? Why prejudice against No TAV, students, workers and all those Italian citizens who manifest for far nobler causes than the ball game and who are systematically ganged? Why have Dutch fans been able to roam Rome undisturbed and vandalize the city? Politics has a great responsibility. We know that in Italy the management of public order is bad, especially for political laws, and with this episode we scrape the bottom of the barrel already reached for some time. Mr Alfano was not even here, he did not monitor these events, or if he did he did not know or wanted to act promptly and rigorously. The leaders of the chain of command, from the quaestor to come down, have encamped excuses and of course will be rewarded, this is the Italian practice! But it is known, those who express an opinion, those who do so in order to ask for rights or remind the State of their duties must be repressed, isolated, "need to make them pay"; those who come to Italy to vent their violent instincts, since in the country of origin similar behaviors would be severely punished, must be left to act unpunished. Perhaps the Minister was afraid that opposing Dutch fans would harm our imports of Leerdammer? I couldn't give myself a better explanation. In Piedmont we have a definition for the incompetence of people like Minister Alfano ciculatèl, obviously with the utmost respect for the category of chocolate makers! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u352	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u353	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u354	MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, yesterday, the bell rang at the school "Alcide De Gasperi" in Castello di Cisterna in the province of Naples, waiting for the children there were also the killers of the Camorra. Three gunshots were fired, one of them hit a felon who was waiting for his son. The day before, then on February 23rd, there was another shooting in Naples, in the district of Forcella, 100 meters from a kindergarten: six gunshots, wounded a man. The kindergarten is called "Annalisa Durante," in memory of the 14-year-old innocent victim of a clan shooting in September 2004. These episodes, President, bring us back to mind also in December 2012, when another convicted person was chased and killed inside the courtyard of the middle school "Eugenius Montale" in Scampia. Today we are obviously faced with a growing number of criminal incidents in Naples, we read clearly the sign of how the worsening social conditions also due to the economic crisis of recent years and the consequent uncontrolled increase in the unemployment rate, especially youth, risk opening the door to recruitment of new forces by organized crime. We believe, Mr President, that this is a clear signal. We urgently need serious and real employment policies, history teaches us that the ability of the Camorra to penetrate the areas abandoned by the State must be curbed. Urgentness that with the regional elections at the door calls all of us to make quick choices, also in the context of the contrast to the phenomenon of the exchange vote, business of which the camorra unfortunately makes its winning weapon, exploiting precisely that grey area in which the victims of unemployment converge. In the light of these considerations, therefore, we believe that it is appropriate for this Parliament to take rapid action to complete the adoption of our proposal for a law on the establishment of citizenship income currently under discussion in the Senate's Labour Commission, which could immediately offer families in difficulty the possibility of avoiding the conditioning of collusion policy and the vile blackmail of crime. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u355	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-399.ana.u356	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 26 February, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.56 a.m.
