ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 26 February.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u4	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1345, 11, 1072, 1283, 1306 and 1514.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u11	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at last the draft law on environmental crimes, which we have been waiting for in this country for many years now, comes to the final vote of this House, almost a year - I must say - since the adoption of the text to the House; a year in which obviously, and unfortunately, as usual, there have been resistances, difficulties and even attempts to drag the adoption of this measure over and over again. And that of a bill that never comes to a successful conclusion is a situation that unfortunately lasts for many years in our country. I would like to remind you here that the need to introduce environmental crimes into our penal code was already clearly identified in 1998 when the Commission was set up on eco-challenges: that is, there was already the idea of introducing into the penal code the heading of Title VI- bis as crimes against the environment; an attempt to codify that was also proposed in the framework of the Commission for the reform of the penal code, chaired by Dr Nordio, and then in the 14th legislature. In every parliamentary term it has been tried, almost reaching the conclusion, to approve it and to make this qualitative leap. The attempts that I have wanted to list make clear the fact that our country has continued, in all these years, to be well aware of the need for a new discipline, in code-making, of crimes against the environment. But, of course, the reasons for a sick economy, as well as always very active lobbying, have always prevented the adoption of legislation to this end. Yet, the reform of the system of environmental protection - as the senators know - is provided for by a directive of 2008 which, among other things, Italy has formally transposed, but has basically continuously disregarded. In this regard, I would also like to mention here the very clear pronunciation of the European Parliament, which, in a resolution adopted by this House on 11 June 2013, referred on several occasions to environmental crimes. The text approved by the European Parliament commits the Commission to propose common legal standards and models of integration and cooperation between Member States and to submit a legislative proposal containing a common definition of organised crime, which should include mafia-style associative crime precisely in relation to environmental crimes. In the same resolution, the European Parliament strongly supports the creation of a European Public Prosecutor, pursuant to Article 86 of the Treaty, precisely to combat crimes that harm the interests of the Union, serious cross-border crimes and, in particular, environmental crimes. As we can see, therefore, the need for legislation in this respect is unanimously recognised. Moreover, I would like to remind you that every year the data released by Legambiente in the reports on ecomafia remind us of the dramatic environmental situation in our country, characterized by widespread illegality. In the last twenty years of attempts to approve a bill on environmental crimes, the ecomafias in our country have prospered. Data on environmental crimes have always been, and continue to be, alarming. Not only that: I would also like to remind you of the latest data released in the 2014 Ecomafia report, which tells us about a country in which environmental lawlessness continues to be a mistress and continues incessantly to attack the common goods and the health of citizens. Moreover - and this is the most incredible fact that has emerged in all these years - it is a form of submerged economy that knows no recession and that contributes to fueling the profits of criminal organizations, now even outside the national territories. According to the report released a few days ago, during 2013 there were 29,274 infringements (more than 80 per day, more than three per hour), with a real boom in the agri-food sector. 22 percent of these crimes affected fauna - and I will return to this figure - 15 percent of the waste and 14 percent of the cement cycle. The turnover of this criminal economy amounts to almost 15 billion, with the involvement of 321 clans belonging to criminal organizations who, for their traffic, have made use of corrupt public officials. The link with corruption is getting stronger in this area. In the face of all this, we still have purely contrary legislation, based, in fact, on a very widespread idea that has prevented, in the last twenty years, the recognition of environmental crimes and the inclusion of them in the penal code: the reasons for profit and the economy must be pursued at the expense of the nature, the environment and the health of the citizens. In 2014, among other things, this fact became even more striking. The lack of a codification of environmental crimes has led to incredible situations. I would just like to remind you here of the judgment of the Court of Cassation on asbestos, which once again, in fact, has acquitted all those responsible for that tragedy which continues to affect that community and many others, due precisely to the lack, in our penal code, of a crime such as that of environmental disaster. That is why I believe that today we must make one last effort, hoping, among other things, that the House, to which the measure will return, will approve it quickly in the final text. I believe, in fact, that the introduction of environmental crimes in our penal code, as it is no longer possible to postpone, is absolutely no longer feasible, precisely because of the close link between these crimes and the forms of corruption against public administration, including the adoption of effective rules on corruption, but we will be discussing this in a few days' time. The text, which arrived at the final line this morning, has certainly been improved in some parts compared to the one from the House, but it maintains - in our opinion - a number of limits. Some solutions could be found more effectively. There are still some shortcomings, such as the one that prevented, among other things, the introduction of the crime also for illicit trafficking and crimes against fauna, which also - as I have already said - account for 22% of environmental crimes. However, I would also like to point out a number of important positive elements, such as yesterday's approval in this House of the amendment that has made it possible to punish the use of techniques for destructive drilling for marine environments. Once again, we can say that we have made our contribution. However, I keep thinking - and I am convinced of this - that a better job could be done. There are definitions - in our opinion - that are not adequate (I am thinking of some definitions of environmental disaster and the irreversibility of damage), because they do not fit, limited and imperfect, but they represent a clear direction and - hopefully - with the approval of this bill, a point of no return in the fight against the ecocomaphies. With the final approval of this bill - we hope in this legislature - it will be easier to institute investigations, to strike eco-criminals and to ensure that the damage that has been done to our community, citizens and the environment in this country is finally properly prosecuted. That is why we are voting in favour. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u14	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I will make a very brief speech to announce the positive vote of the People's Area Group on this measure. This is a measure much awaited by the country, because environmental disasters in recent decades have accumulated. The demand for justice is now widespread by entire populations, devastated by this type of crime, which is particularly poor and hateful not only because it affects, with negative consequences, those who suffer certain events in an immediate and direct way, but also because, in fact, it affects the future of the new generations. It is true that this expectation of the outside world, which looks with attention to the work of the Assembly, at certain moments, in my opinion, has tried not to condition (this is not the exact term), but to create a series of patemas of mind to the Commissions, who, to tell the truth, have been able to work with attention and wisdom. An account, in fact, is to give answers to absolutely legitimate requests, an account would have been to proceed at such a speed as to induce the Commissions, and consequently the House would have to make mistakes and oversimplifications. We are convinced that we have contributed significantly to improving the text that came from the House. The work in the Commission was excellent, and the approach given to the subject by the Group I represent was also crucial. We have made a significant contribution to making a clear distinction between crimes caused by manslaughter and arson; we have made a decisive contribution to introducing a number of aggravating factors, specifically in cases where personal injuries may result from environmental crimes that can lead to the death of one or more people, with penalties that can even triple their size to the age of twenty. We have welcomed a number of mitigating factors in specific cases where the perpetrator or the perpetrator is absolutely diligent in compensating for the damage and returning the environment to the previous conditions. It is clear that the legislative texts, particularly in this sensitive area, respond to conflicting needs and interests. In this matter, there were all constitutionally valid and guaranteed interests, such as the right to environmental protection, the right to health, the right to business and the right to work. We have tried, and I believe that this result has been achieved, to obtain an absolutely balanced text that somehow succeeded in comprehending the various needs by reaching that mediation that is not to be understood, as often happens, in negative terms, but in the most positive and noble meaning of the term. This is ultimately in my opinion the duty of those who make politics: the duty to give serious and concrete answers to the country without suffering from the wave of emotion and sometimes even saying no to pressures that may have understandable psychological presuppositions, but that would lead to a bad road. That is why I reiterate the support of the People's Area Group. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the two rapporteurs, Senators Sollo and Albertini, who have played a major role, not only in the work of the Commission and the House, but also in the complex and dynamic relationship with the Government, represented by two Ministries, and have done very often as an interface with a pressing public opinion. Of course, I must also thank all the staff of the two Commissions 13a and 2a, who assisted us in an absolutely continuous, constant and above all valid way. As I conclude, I would ask for permission to attach the text of my speech to the Reports of today's sitting. [[Senator Sollo's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u15	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u18	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, today is a very important day for this branch of Parliament, because we are about to fill a regulatory vacuum that has marked the news and history of this country in the areas of environment, environmental disasters, pollution and delety near parts of the criminal and sick world of this country with the devastation of the environment, fauna, flora and, finally, also of human health. The introduction into the penal code of these new articles aimed at punishing the hypotheses, specifically identified for the first time, of environmental pollution and environmental disaster, above all, serves to fill a void of which the whole public has been able to notice in time all the times in which, especially in the recent chronicle, criminal proceedings of great importance and impact have concerned crimes, which have caused serious damage to public health, with considerable deaths and environmental devastations in most of our country, from North to South, and not only in the now sadly known land of fires, and which will find a regulatory response. This text, on which the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour, is certainly a great step forward in relation to the current legislation and, probably, also with respect to the text that came to us from the Chamber of Deputies. We note that the hypothesis of environmental pollution, the milder one, provides an edittal penalty that allows the use of telephone interceptions. We already know that the sentence of two to six years, envisaged in relatively less serious cases (if compared to the environmental disaster), will give a strong weapon in the hands of the judicial authorities and the police authorities to combat all the phenomena of impairment and deterioration of water, air and ecosystems. Of course, we did not appreciate, in the passage to the Chamber, the revocation of a provision made within the framework of the Commissions brought together justice and the environment: that is, the possibility of predicting the hypothesis (and also a possible blame) of a dangerous crime even in case of malice. There have been amendments in this House that have relegated this hypothesis of punishableness only to the manslaughter hypothesis, which we have also welcomed as an autonomously punishable hypothesis in our own legal system. Of course we would have regulated this area differently, but - as I will say later - this text (and any subsequent changes it may receive in the other House of Parliament) will be measured by the reality of the courtrooms and by the practical reality of the investigative activities and the means that the State manages to make available. Article 452-b (the environmental disaster) serves to fill this gap, which forced the Italian jurisprudence to use the so-called innominate disaster, referred to in article 344 of the penal code, to try to give a sanctioning response to the major environmental events, those that really had a devastating impact in our country. The edittal penalty seems to us congruly severe, since we are talking about a five to fifteen-year-old detention, with every consequence also in the matter of the risk of prescription of the crime. In this case too, the same is true of environmental pollution: we would have preferred that the possibility of criminalisation of the putting in danger of public safety should remain as an independent voice of crime even in the case of arson. But it wasn't. However, we believe that Article 452-c, with a clear penalty discount, also provides for the criminality of criminal offences against the environment, gives a sufficiently comforting balance for the expression of our vote in favour. It also regulates the aggravating circumstances in all cases where criminal associations, both simple and mafia, are directed to commit crimes of this kind. Yesterday in this House we also introduced an additional burden in all cases where there are crimes linked, for teleological purposes, to the coverage of environmental crimes. There is a hypothesis of industrious repentance, which provides discounts of penalty for those who concretely collaborate with the judicial authority or, in any case, for those who provide to restore the state of the places and to clean up the places affected by the pollution phenomena, although we would have preferred that the hypothesis had remained that the final time limit for being able to achieve this benefit was the opening of the judicial debate. Confiscation of the product or profit of the crime in the event of a conviction is also envisaged. In essence, this is a text, all in all, that really makes a step forward and that will try to give the answer, where it can give it in judicial terms, to the great question that comes from the country and that we perceive. We have all been the subject of email bombing, in recent weeks, by associations and individual citizens who have called for the immediate adoption, as soon as possible, of this text on environmental crimes. We did our part. I would like to stress here above all the great commitment that my colleagues and colleagues have spent in the hundreds of hours of auditions to listen to the voices of those who live in Campania and carry out daily, putting their lives at risk, a fight against evil. Even here, as in many other areas, it is not only the judicial response that punishes environmental crimes that will solve the problems we know and make Italy a civil country. We also need that cultural maturity and that detoxification of the world of public administration, that collusion, which is too easily permeated by the interests of the evil, often of a bad type, or that part of the Italian productive society and that reality of the industry disposed, in order to pursue its own profit, to trample on every more reasonable norm of prudence and wisdom, putting at risk the same public health. We trust that this text, which may possibly be further incorporated in the next passage in the other branch of Parliament, can be compared with the reality of the courts and can finally give an answer. Cases such as that of the Eternit procedure, in addition to the considerations we can make on the expertise of the judicial bodies and the heads of attribution formulated, as well as all the others, of which Italy is unfortunately full, of serious criminal proceedings for responsibilities related to environmental damage and public health must be able to find answers. Our vote will therefore be in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u21	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Forza Italia approached this measure with due attention and with the conviction that there was a need for action on environmental protection. It was necessary because the rules in force and in our system do not guarantee the protection of the environment. They do not guarantee the growth of a culture of defence and respect for the environment. And for this reason we said that we should prepare ourselves for this measure with technical measures, with assessments that prescind from the political position of majority and opposition. Minister, I am convinced that the political clashes must take place on the general options. On the other hand, there is a need for special attention to be paid to concrete measures to ensure that the rules that are being approved have an effect. What is the effect of any criminal law? To increase the deterrent, to give the ability to read the rule of understanding the course and its effect that must be avoided. Well, this measure, as it came to us from the House of Deputies, presented two flaws identical to those of the rules currently in force. The first flaw was the general nature of the rules. One of the great problems of our criminal system is that, when we use generic expressions, we do not obtain deterrents, nor do we grow the culture of legality. Secondly, the text arrived from the House provided for very high penalties, even if you do not understand why. Beware, if the penalty is not perceived as fair and just, it has no deterrent effect. A high penalty does not serve to fight a phenomenon, but only to satisfy the needs of those judicialists who exist today and who every day tend to increase the penalties. We have brought the penalties to six years, Minister, although it was not necessary: the defence of the environment does not even need to be intercepted. Rather, there is a need to ensure that processes are rapid and that those who break the rules and those who pollute our ecosystem are affected. For this reason we have tabled several amendments and the text of the bill has improved since the passage here in the Senate, although it still presents a number of inconsistencies. In this connection, I would like to mention two examples. Yesterday, thanks to a speech by Minister Orlando, who contradicted the opinion already expressed by the representative of the Government and the rapporteurs, an amendment tabled by Senator Fucksia on the question of industrious repentance was approved. But now we are faced with an incongruity: for arson crimes there will be the possibility of taking into account those who work to restore the state of the place, and the Minister has properly realized the need to approve this rule. The provision, which was rightly adopted, had been identified by us from the outset with the request, even, for the abolition of what was envisaged as a hypothesis of non-perpetuality: what we proposed - and it was correctly approved - was the need for a reduction in penalty, certainly not a forecast of non-perpetuality. However, the same provision has not been approved with regard to criminal offences, only because presented by the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura Group. For criminal offences, in which imprudence and error determine the crime, only the reduction of the sentence is foreseen, without any incentive to restore the status of the places, because the reduction of an additional third of the penalty is not allowed. I am pleased to read in the newspapers that the Minister, speaking of the fake in the budget, has stated that he will table an amendment referring to concreteness. We talked about a real danger of pollution. Look, when you write criminal rules, talking about danger means nothing. I certainly do not have to teach any of you the difference between possible and probable: one thing is possible even when it has only one possibility of realization. When we talk then of a danger, without reference to the concreteness of the danger or without the use of any expression that concrets a generic formulation, we refer only to the judge the interpretation of the norm; this aspect characterizes some aspects of the measure under consideration, which will not allow us to vote in favour. We would have liked a unanimous vote. That is why we had worked on the amendments. Ten of my amendments have passed, some of which, however - I must say - only because we were lucky that the amendments were not all voted on in the same week, but in a period of three weeks. This allowed the rapporteurs and the government to change the opinions initially expressed, in order to allow some fundamental corrections. Our vote against is also against a method. Minister, it cannot be that whenever the opposition proposes a certain correction or a certain rule, the majority think that it is always against the government's activity. On these matters we have an interest in working together; on everything about justice we should work together, so as to ensure a system. Where does the system make water (not only for this matter, but for everything)? About the judge's enormous discretion. When we leave the discretion of interpretation to the judge, what do we determine? That the citizen has no awareness of the actual disvalue of his behavior. In fact, if its behaviour is not well defined by the norm, it is such that it cannot be perceived by everyone as a social disvalue. Then there is no growing culture of environmental protection. That is why we wish the next steps well. Next week we will discuss many others, always concerning justice, such as the one that will follow this measure, on which there was probably less political demagogy and then we were able to find solutions that we have agreed. This is the work of the opposition and the majority: the research on the rules concerning offences of configurations that have not only a capacity to deter but also the possibility of being understood and thus guarantee legal certainty. Minister, these are the issues of legal certainty and of punishment and the functioning of the civil process. The civil trial seems to be unrelated to criminal law, but it doesn't. DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). That's enough! [[Call the president back.]] CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). The failure of the civil process brings one of the strongest causes of increase... president. Senator Caliendo, I invite you to conclude. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I have concluded, Mr President. I have given the reasons why we are voting against this measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u24	CASSON (PD). Mr President, it has been a few decades since, in the area of environmental crimes, there was an attempt to include, within the penal code, the most appropriate cases for the punishable use of serious environmental events. The proof is also given by the dozens of bills or draft laws that, between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic, over the course of these years, have been presented precisely to impress a turning point in environmental matters. Let us remember how we arrived from the Chamber of Deputies just over a year ago, this bill which constituted and constitutes a certainly positive and very important starting point in environmental matters. It is a basis that has been integrated with the Senate's bill that had been presented by the Democratic Party, but also by other groups such as Misto-SEL, Senator De Poli's and the 5 Star Movement, to try to improve the text arrived from the House. In that text there were basically five possible criminal offences which had to be supplemented mainly from a technical point of view. After the extensive and thorough work carried out within the Senate's Environment and Justice Commissions, it can be said that the text has been improved, also complemented by the work of the House. Reviewing the excursus of the draft law and the Commission' s work until its arrival in the Chamber gives us the weight of the substantial improvement that has been achieved. I would add, however, that, as has already been said in this House, a fundamental opportunity has been missed to bring about a more in-depth, broader and more modern cultural breakthrough for environmental protection, because the regulations, indications, directives and recommendations that come to us from the European level are certainly more advanced than the Italian legislation. And Italian culture and public opinion are also at a more advanced stage. I cite as an example the need that we had identified and that could be realized of better coordination between the norms of the environmental code and the penal code in force in Italy, in particular regarding the definition of the risk, the definition of the disaster in a more detailed way and environmental damage. Despite these comments, it must be said that the step we are taking today is a positive one. I remember quickly that we are inserting in the Italian penal code five hypotheses of crime that will certainly help to ensure that environmental disasters and pollutions can be better identified and better prosecuted and, in cases of proven responsibility, it is possible to arrive at a condemnation also of criminal nature. The cases are those of environmental pollution, environmental disaster, crime against the environment, trafficking in high-level radioactive material and intervention in the field of monitoring and verification of the obstacles that are often put in place by those who do not want to ascertain the truth not only in the field of the environment, but also in the specific protection of workers who have dealt with, for example, killer fibers or carcinogens such as asbestos. These are all positive aspects. Among other things, some concerns raised in this House, for example regarding the technical configuration of the environmental disaster, must certainly be eliminated because the new rule will not have a negative effect on the procedural events of the Ilva or on the convictions already inflicted regarding the crimes identified for the activity of ENEL Porto Tolle, because the hypotheses indicated in the matter of environmental disaster (art. 452-b) are alternative assumptions which largely cover all cases of disaster as configured and do not necessarily require the assumption of irreversible alteration. But there are other important aspects in this bill that must certainly be remembered, both from a substantive-criminal point of view and from the point of view of the procedural-penal rite. First of all, let us remember that the penalties which have been provided for since the beginning of this bill in the Chamber of Deputies are certainly more appropriate than the seriousness of the cases. Therefore, criminal sanctions are also more serious and this must be remembered because it certainly has a favourable effect on the lengthening of the limitation period. This puts a brake on the risk that for certain serious environmental facts it will run very, too quickly in the manna of the prescription. For these environmental crimes, in particular disaster but also pollution, it should be remembered that the penalties provided allow telephone and environmental interceptions. Those who have dealt with environmental investigations realize very well that, in certain particularly complex situations, it is absolutely essential to be able to take advantage of this investigative instrument too, obviously with the necessary controls, rather than the prosecutor of the Republic, of the judge who holds the proceedings. Other very important aspects are those relating to the prediction of industrious repentance. I would remind you that, among other things, the risk of achieving a non-penalty for environmental crimes has been eliminated, thanks to the work done in Parliament, in the Senate and by the Government. Then there are other positive institutions, for example the one of confiscation, also provided for in the case of the plea, with the confiscated goods going to the public administration, and the prediction of the restoration of the state of the places also in case of plea as well as of course in case of conviction. And he has not forgotten to intervene also in relation to particularly serious associative crimes, with specific aggravating agents, as well as in procedural matters through the coordination of investigations at the level of district prosecutors anti-mafia at the top. Speaking of these aspects of a substantive, procedural and repressive nature, it cannot be considered that the repressive aspect is the solution to all the problems. In fact, when it comes to environmental crimes, as in the case of deaths at work, to think that the repressive aspect is the solution to the problems is to make a hole in the water. On the contrary, the message that this bill gives the country, a political, social message of formation for young people, is important because it underlines, in a constitutional perspective, the importance of the environment; an environment that has to do not only with water, air, soil, but with man, in his integrity and with all aspects of the human person. I now quote a passage from Dostoevsky that, correcting the aphorism \ beauty will save us Â said that it is not true that beauty alone will save us, because it is we who must save beauty. Well, with this bill we give this indication. This means, in fact, that beauty is not something abstract, but something that has to do with people and society and it is our job, as politicians, to intervene in this sense. Allow me, in conclusion, to recall our Constitutional Charter. Italy is certainly a Republic founded on work, but I would add that Italy is a Republic founded on work and beauty. With this bill we implement fundamental constitutional principles, such as those of Article 9, second paragraph, to protect the landscape and our beauties, and such as those of Article 42, second paragraph, of the Constitution. In fact, if it is true, in premise, that the economic initiative, even the private one, must be free, certainly and sacrosanctly free because it constitutes the backbone of our society, it is also true that it is necessary to remember precisely the second paragraph of Article 41 that all economic initiatives cannot be carried out in contrast to the social usefulness, dignity, security and freedom of persons. This is the message of the Constitution that we are putting into practice at the moment. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u26	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u27	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion presents two serious problems. The first one. Criminal law can never be retroactive and this is enshrined in the Constitution in Article 25, paragraph 2: "No one can be punished except by a law which entered into force before the fact committed" and which is reflected in the penal code with article 2, paragraph 1: No one can be punished for a fact that according to the law of the time when it was committed did not constitute a crime. Therefore, if approved, this law cannot constitutionally have effect on any of the judgments pending to date, either on those currently being investigated or on those subsequent to its entry into force if they refer to previous conducts. An effective law must intervene in advance in order to avoid the occurrence of the damage, but if this happens in any case, provide for a reasonable and certain compensation for the damage. But in order for the injured individual or community to have a refreshment, a definition of what is harm and what is disaster is precise and uniquely quantifiable, and not left to the arbitrariness of non-scientific interpretations or even less induced by pressure of individual or collective emotions. And here we move on to the second and even more serious critical issue. The entire installation of this bill is based on subjective and non-objective definitions, starting from that of environmental pollution and ending to that of environmental disaster. This is contrary to Article 24 of the Constitution, which states that: Everyone can sue for the protection of his or her legitimate rights and interests. The defence shall be inviolable in any state and degree of the proceedings. In fact, in order to be able to have the univocal certainty that there has been pollution or environmental disaster, it is necessary to know in a detailed and systematic way the status quo ante existing before the occurrence of the harmful event and on all the matrix potentially concerned: air, soil, subsoil, groundwater, fauna and flora of every local ecosystem, especially in relation to the depressing value of the restoration, which is one of the cornerstones of this measure. To date, these objective scientific data, which must have certain date, in Italy are not there, and this squeals violently both with Article 40 of the penal code ('No one can be punished for a fact predicted by law as a crime, if the harmful or dangerous event, on which depends the existence of the crime, is not a consequence of its action or omission) and even with Article 1 - therefore, the assumption of all the rest - of the penal code ('No one can be punished for a fact that is not expressly predicted as a crime by the law "). Although I trust that the President of the Republic, in his current capacity as guarantor of the Constitution, but also for his personal experience as a distinguished lawyer and constitutional judge, would never sign such a law, for the obvious inconstitutionality that I have just listed, I believe that as a senator of the Republic I absolutely cannot express my approval of this bill. Although I myself have tabled and signed certain amendments, specifically in this House that I have done so because it is my particular duty, as everyone else, to try to make a legislative contribution in the best possible way. Although I agree with the amendments to Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006, I believe that the overall installation of this provision is unconstitutional and likely to generate, if possible, even more confusion and inapplicability by the judiciary, and even more by the investigating judicial authority and its auxiliaries. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you should finish. FUCKSIA (M5S). I shall conclude, Mr President. We need more certainty and not this legal uncertainty. Almost nine years after the enactment of legislative decree n. 152 of 2006, but even sixteen years after the ministerial decree n. 471 of 1999 on contaminated sites, only in rare, localized and sporadic cases, the Regions or the Ministry of the Environment have taken care to fix the natural and anthropic fundamental values provided by the same legislative decree n. 152, to article 240, paragraph 1. I'm talking about certain and unconventional values. Therefore, in the absence of these objective data on an analytical basis, anyone could be accused of any pollution or disaster without having the possibility to prove that the variation was caused by him, and even without even that there really has been a change in the existing natural or diffuse conditions, as is already happening in many criminal proceedings. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's enough, you have to conclude, if you want you can deliver the text, senator; we are already over five minutes. FUCKSIA (M5S). I'll finish. Excuse me, ma'am. Since I therefore believe that the adoption of this draft law would entail a material difficulty in ascertaining past responsibilities for events that have already occurred, and being sure that Parliament's duty is to avoid or at least limit the causes, I think it is much more appropriate to intervene on the aforementioned legislative decree no. 152 of 2006 in order to bring greater clarity and avoid these confusions that will be certain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u28	I address the greeting of the Assembly of the Senate to the students of the Hotel Institute "Domizia Lucilla" in Rome, who are attending the work from the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u30	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u31	D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). Mr President, I shall vote against this measure because it is the classic compromise that does not resolve. I have listened to Senator Casson's speech and I am well aware that what has been achieved in this measure is a downside compromise, in the sense that environmental protection is not fully safeguarded and all mediation has taken place on the part concerning sanctions against the circumstances envisaged. I am pleased, in a general sense, that Mrs Fucksia has discovered the irretroactivity of criminal law. In this House we have been holding back on the Berlusconi case for a couple of days but, dear God, the truth is always revolutionary and I believe that what applies to the polluters should also apply to the senators of the Republic. Therefore, the irretroactivity of the penalties had to apply also to Silvio Berlusconi. Since my President's laudatores do not have the courage to repeat it here, I say that I am an irregular person. Having said that, I want to say that behind this bill, in the general infancy, there are the interests of the ENI and that part of the State's participants who have intervened heavily so that the rule is not detrimental to their business. Since we know very well that this Government has reinstated, as one of my fellow Members has just said, the institution of state participations, I believe that behind this measure there is the search for the benevolence of the great financiers of the President-in-Office of the Council. And that must be said in this House, where everyone pretends not to know, but everyone knows and nobody talks! [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u32	I note that the rapporteurs have tabled the C1 coordination proposal, which has already been distributed and which is intended to be presented. Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall put it to the vote. It's approved. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 1345, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] Consequently, the draft law no. 11, 1072, 1283, 1306 and 1514. He asked Senator Sollo to speak as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u33	Mr President, after the long struggle, the birth took place and I would like to express my thanks, which may seem like a rite, but in reality they are extremely sincere and sincere, first of all to the President of the Environment Commission, Senator Marinello, who, together with our leader, Mr Caleo, who I hope will soon return to health in the Senate, had confidence in me and entrusted me with this ungrateful task. Secondly, I would like to thank President Palma, to whom I should like to thank him very much. I am an economist and not a connoisseur of the penal code, and every time we have met he has always shown himself available for the text to improve, without distinction of political belonging: for this I thank him publicly. I thank all the members of the Justice and Environment Commissions, with whom we have tried to have a collaborative relationship to improve the text and to ensure that it is as shared as possible. I thank Senators Casson, Lumia, Caliendo, who, as experts on the subject, have certainly addressed me well. Allow me also to apologise to this House if I have sometimes seemed inappropriate. I repeat that it was not my field and with such humility I tried to study, understand and contribute. With regard to the other groups, there has been a fruitful dialogue with Senator De Petris, whom I must thank twice for having put on the side of personal beliefs, which he had put forward in order to improve the text, so that the measure would come to an end. I apologise to you and thank you for your active will to ensure that the measure is finally dismissed. I also thank the members of the 5 Star Movement, in particular Senator Nugnes, for the message he sent me yesterday, and Senator Buccarella. I would also like to thank Senator Arrigoni of the Northern League Group. I would like to thank the parliamentary advisers, who have played a key role. I would also like to thank Mr Orlando and Mr Ferri, who was very helpful and who had only listened a little more to the rapporteur on certain amendments which I asked him to withdraw, and which were actually withdrawn, we would have avoided some critical issues in this House. The last thanks go to my colleague, Senator Albertini, who, although less has been seen and even if he was conceptually opposed, has made a decisive contribution with his behavior as a middleman, working behind the scenes I thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC. Congratulations.]] . PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thanks also to all colleagues, because given the progress of the work, sometimes more than environmental crimes were torture crimes against senators. He asked the Minister for Justice to intervene. Minister Orlando, I gladly give you the floor because Article 64 of the Constitution provides for it: when you request it, the Government can intervene. But I remind you - as they say, I say it to your daughter-in-law because she means - that when requested, a member of the Government has an obligation to be present. ORLANDO, Minister for Justice. Mr President, thank you. I would also like to join in thanking the rapporteurs, Senators Sollo and Albertini, the Justice Commission, the Environment Commission and the Undersecretary Ferri, who followed the work both in the Commission and in this House with diligence. I would like to stress one simple point: as an environmental minister, I went, as the first official visit, to Caivano in the so-called land of fires, and on that occasion I made two commitments: the first was to issue a decree to deal with that tragic situation, which was then issued, the second was to proceed (it was also in the aftermath of some important processes that had faded into nothing for the implementation of the limitation periods of certain crimes) towards a comprehensive reform of criminal sanctions in the environmental field. I believe that this commitment is in some way being realized thanks to the contribution of all political forces, those who voted on this measure and also those who contributed, not voting on it, to improving it. It is not a measure that simply tightens the sanctions: there are procedures that also allow to take into account conducts that can contribute to the recovery of polluted sites. I believe that this is an element of internal balance in the measure which allows us to say that it is not just a political signal (since we legislators often vary measures to give political signals not always taking into account the concrete procedures that are put in place in the intercourse between administrations and private subjects) but that this latter aspect has also been taken into account. I would also like to thank Senator Casson for the words he made this morning during the explanation of vote. It seems to me that this measure has a capacity for interlocation between all the political forces that I hope will characterize all the measures relating to the justice sector. I believe that it is important that, apart from a majority and a minority, there is the possibility of intercourse on fundamental rights and issues relating to the future of communities, such as the environment, which goes beyond the narrow majority. In this case, this effort has been made. I hope that we can also respond on other occasions. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC and M5S).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u36	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, by joining this extremely sweet chorus of thanksgiving, I would like to remind you that we are forgetting the shorthand people who have obviously reported the many nonsense that has been said in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u37	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 922. I would remind you that in the afternoon sitting on 27 November the rapporteur, Senator Casson, supplemented the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u38	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, transplant medicine is a relatively young medical specialization which has successfully helped to save or prolong people's lives and improve their quality. Apart from the new materials, transplant medicine depends largely on human organs, that is, organs donated by human beings. In this regard, the supply of organs is essential for transplant medicine. Its success is accompanied by a marked increase in demand while their supply is based on free consent and operates through public donation programs. Due to limited supply and increased demand, waiting time is longer than patients' life expectancy. These circumstances have contributed to the development of organ trafficking. In some cases, recipients may travel abroad to receive a transplant, in other cases the donor travels to the country where the recipient lives. But in both cases the most serious thing is that the recipient buys the organ to transplant from the donor. The determining criterion of this practice is that the donor remains alive after donating an organ (in this case we are talking, of course, about a kidney). This model is also very attractive for insurance companies that obviously, since they are patients who are on dialysis, have very considerable costs for keeping these subjects alive and therefore prefer transplantation to kidney failure and dialysis. Organ transplantation is certainly one of the great achievements of modern medicine if carried out, of course, in accordance with the law and with medical ethics. It is a procedure that can save lives, but it can also destroy them. In 2000, the World Medical Association approved a resolution on human organ donation and transplantation. This resolution was then revised in 2006 with the addition of specific ethical requirements. The World Health Organisation has also provided detailed guiding principles for human cell, tissue and organ transplantation. According to World Health Organization experts, 21,000 liver transplants, 66,000 kidney transplants, 6,000 heart transplants are performed worldwide each year. Five percent of the organs used in these interventions would come from the black market, for an estimated turnover of between 600 million and 1.2 billion dollars. The most dramatic aspect is that according to Global finance integrity, a non-governmental organization specialized in tracking illegal financial flows, the numbers of this macabre trade are constantly increasing. In Italy, according to the statistics on transplants of the Ministry of Health, there are 9,000 patients on the waiting list, most of whom, about 6,500, are waiting for a kidney transplant: 20 percent die waiting for an organ. Although 1.5 million citizens have already given their consent and permission to donate organs since 2000, those long waiting lists remain virtually unsolved. We must also bear in mind that now, at the municipal offices, at the time of the renewal of the identity card, it is possible to declare its availability to the donation of an organ, although this, unfortunately, is possible only in 24 municipalities out of the 90 that have requested it. Despite the problem of waiting lists, we must also say that Italy has made a lot of progress in terms of donation. We've gone from a thousand donations to three thousand transplants a year. This is also thanks to the misfortune - as you will remember - of Nicholas Green, the child who was wounded and killed during a robbery on Salerno-Reggio Calabria, while on holiday in Sicily, whose parents decided to donate the organs. From this dramatic story, millions of Italians have changed their way of seeing and conceiving the concept of organ donation. Soon after this episode, the number of donations rose, up to triple. The problem of waiting lists, according to the World Health Organization, is obviously linked to international organ trafficking. Traffic exists because supply and demand are unbalanced. If there were more organ availability there would also be a stop to this illegal trafficking. Traffic, among other things, travels the international routes that we now know, from the South to the North of the world, from third world countries to the richest countries. In the worst cases, this traffic turns into real forms of expropriation, exploitation and coercion. The main exporters of this unique product are India and Pakistan, where, according to the World Health Organization, about two thousand people sell their organs each year to unscrupulous buyers or intermediaries. But there are also countries in which this phenomenon reaches levels of gravity that can speak of planned death. What do we mean by planned death? Not a death that happens for an accident or surgery gone wrong, but rather for the decision, or better still, the intention of other people, expressed, for example, through the verdict of a judge in a trial or simply through the brutal killing of some people who are sentenced to death, who are arbitrarily declared out of law. Therefore, the decision to donate organs is imposed on certain vulnerable groups and minorities, such as prisoners on death row or even prisoners of conscience. This is, unfortunately, the dramatic case of China. China is the first country in the world, after the United States, by volume of transplanted organs. We're talking about 10,000 transplants a year. Nevertheless, his donation system produces very low numbers, not to mention that Chinese law does not allow the removal of organs from people who are victims of accidents in the brain. In addition, in China the possibility of donation to direct family members is limited and living donations are discouraged based on the fact that losing an organ is harmful to health. There is no coordination in the programming of transplants between patients; moreover, there is no national system of organ donation, except for the small number of voluntary donors. Despite all this, the volume of transplants remained constant at 10,000 per year. What then is the source of supply for this large number of transplanted organs? Some independent researchers have given this a response, which is unfortunately dramatic. The Canadian international human rights lawyer David Matas in June 2006 drafted a report in collaboration with former Canadian government minister David Kilgour, which shows that prisoners of conscience and in particular those practicing spiritual discipline Falun Gong are being killed in China for their organs. This report has led to the establishment of two non-governmental organisations known as "Doctors against the forced withdrawal of organs" and "Parlamentaries against the forced withdrawal of organs": I am proud to be a member of the latter. We in Italy obviously do not have the power to stop these transplant abuse in China, but we have a duty to make every effort not to be complicit in it. We must make the appropriate legislative measures that the draft law proposes, in order to avoid such complicity and at the same time prevent this kind of abuse. This scenario is so terrifying that unfortunately we are led to say that it does not exist: when something is so terrible, we prefer to think that it is a falsehood, but this is exactly the reason for the expression "too cruel to be true" that has served as a better cover for a decade. Those who commit such crimes generally make every effort to cover them up. The secrecy we check on the data seems to want to do just that: cover a crime against humanity. It may be reasonably understandable that this practice is well buried and that irrefutable evidence is difficult to obtain. Donors do not survive this procedure; the doctors involved, including military doctors, would run a major risk By exposing himself. For a long time, many have condemned the forced and forced use of living people to obtain transplant organs. Why do such practices last? Why are so many people the victims of illicit trafficking around the world? The answer is that the demand for organs and the tolerance of the exploitation of the poor make this a vile trade. The rule of altruistic donations triumphed mainly in a sign of respect for the idea that people should have the dignity of not having to sell parts of their body as a way to earn a living. The sale leads to illicit trafficking, exploitation or both. Some people argue that very poor people, prisoners or other vulnerable groups, can and should be allowed to choose to sell an organ, but I am more than skeptical about the nature of this so-called choice, because a person at the bottom of a society's economic hierarchy has many few options: this is not a choice. Choosing is not a simple matter of not being forced, but it also depends on having options we can choose from and these people have no choice options. If free altruistic choice is not the moral cornerstone of the way organs are obtained, then people will begin, rightly, to worry that since someone is poor, not popular, then they will not receive proper, adequate care if they go to a hospital; they will be seen simply as a donor of potential parts for someone else richer, more famous and famous: in this case I consider it cannibalism. What we see in illicit trafficking around the world is that the poor among the poorest are being exploited. Many of the same people trafficking children and women for prostitution and subjecting people to forced labour also traffic in organs. It is very difficult to monitor illegal trafficking at international level. Criminal gangs move quickly and operate in countries where police and government authorities are unbelievable and on average corrupt. Getting organs from those who sell them while they are still alive or from those who are extracted after their execution is, in both cases, immoral. The sale quickly turns into illicit trafficking and exploitation. The execution on request is already immoral in itself. None of these sources should have any space in the transplant field. Organ trafficking is a form of trafficking in human beings which represents a serious violation of fundamental human rights, in particular the dignity of man and his physical integrity. This trafficking is an area of activity of organised criminal groups that often resort to abuse and violence on particularly vulnerable people. It also poses a serious risk to public health and undermines citizens' confidence in the legal system of transplants. And so in recent years there have been specialized organisations in transplant tourism: bring in contact donor and buyer and organize interventions at health facilities complacent in countries of the Far East or the South of the world, prices? They range from $20,000 for an Indian kidney to $160,000 for one from Israel. And the donor only gets crumbs: on average no more than $1,000. These events involve different categories of people. Patients who are ill, willing to travel distances and face risks to their health in order to obtain the transplant they need; sellers, generally in serious difficulties; surgeons, medical personnel and health facilities willing to violate fundamental laws and rules of ethics and ethics; brokers and intermediaries who have links with the criminality of organ trafficking. Everything possible must be done to counter and discourage the demand for organs taken illegally, to punish those who buy organs for themselves or for others, to protect the rights of offended victims and to promote organ donation. In fact, even when it is a personal initiative, it must be defended and reaffirmed the principle that organs can only be the object of a gift, a free act to save or improve the lives of others. The problem of combating phenomena related to the marketing of the human body has been addressed several times and has been regulated by international conventions. In particular, the Additional Protocol on the transplantation of organs and tissues of human origin, annexed to the Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine signed at Oviedo on 4 April 1997, not only states that the human body should not be a source of economic gain but imposes an obligation to prohibit its trafficking. In 2004, the World Health Organisation called on Member States to take measures to protect the most fragile groups, preventing the purchase and sale of human organs for transplants. It also urged Member States to provide for bans on all types of advertising, including electronic advertising, which would prompt or push for profit-making mediation. It is clear that the problem must be addressed not only through individual action by each Member State, but above all through a comprehensive approach aimed at adopting long-term strategies aimed at abolishing the social inequalities that are at the origin of the international trade in organs and tourism of transplants. It would require common guidelines to protect the most vulnerable donors against the risk of being trafficked, including the definition of homogeneous elements of the crime in all States, effective, proportionate and deterrent sanctions. Legal, national and international regulation should be introduced, including new criminal cases, in order to combat and prevent trafficking in human organs. This is the final recommendation of the National Committee of Bioethics, which published its opinion on the illegal trafficking of human organs among living people on 14 June 2013. This is also the objective of this bill, which has been examined by the Senate Justice Commission and which is the result of effective sharing work. I hope that it will also be an incentive for colleagues in this House to reflect on this important issue. First of all, we must say that people who are not free to give consent must never be able to be used as organ donors, since this not only prevents them from achieving their human potential, but completely deprives them of their humanity and this should not be acceptable in a society of the 21st century. As doctors, we are bound by our oath to prevent damage and this includes acting to protect those who are harmed by others. As humans, we cannot help but act in this way. I would just like to conclude with a note, if you will allow me, Mr President, which is linked to a fact which has happened recently. In Bangladesh, under a bridge, a young boy was found. Her name was Harun. He ended up under this bridge because, drugged, three men took him to this place, explanted both his kidneys and then left him there, like a terminal animal. Harun was fine, despite the fact that his parents were poor. The so-called mercenaries hunt for healthy children in the poorest villages because they know that their parents are unable to pay a lawyer to bring their case before a court of law. These will remain unpunished and the black market of human organs will continue to develop. I think with this bill, if each of us has saved a Harun, it must have made sense to be here. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX, PD, M5S and Misto-SEL Groups and Senator Aiello. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u39	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u40	Mr President, I would like to thank you for this testimony, which I believe brings us into the heart of this measure. Surely today we are faced with a measure of extreme importance for our civil society, for the respect of the principle of legality, for the protection of human rights and for the respect of the principles of fairness and justice. Introduced in the penal code a crime relating to the trafficking of organs taken from a living person is, of course, a decisive step forward that the legislator takes in this direction, also in order to follow up the forecasts of the Convention that the Council of Europe, the international organisation whose aim is to promote democracy, human rights, European cultural identity and the search for solutions to social problems, adopted in this regard. The heart of the bill under consideration is certainly at the first article, which introduces in the penal code Article 601-a, aimed at establishing specific criminal sanctions for the crime of trafficking of organs taken from living person by providing that the imprisonment ranges from a minimum of three to a maximum of 12 and the monetary penalty from 50,000 to 300,000 euros for anyone who trades, sells, procures organs or parts of organs taken from living person. The measure is very important and closely linked to trafficking in human beings, to the exploitation of women, men and children, often reduced, in slavery or semislavery. There is no point in denying that, worldwide, the phenomenon of illicit trafficking in organs linked to transplant needs is not a dramatic event, of a very high magnitude and contrary to public health and respect for human dignity. If the Republic protects health as the fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community, then Parliament, where urgent needs arise, must intervene, with a view to combating the phenomenon by every means. It is clear that, in addition to the introduction of a specific article in our code, the issue concerns, first, the ethical and human side in which criminal sanctions cross-reference. The trafficking of organs is unfortunately necessarily linked in its most perverse essence, both to the side of the victims, that is to say to people often fragile and defenseless, and to that of intermediaries, that is also to that medical community forgets its ethical and ethical code. It was essential to intervene in this regard: the Italian legislation in force so far, especially with regard to the sanctioning side, appeared too light in the face of a very large and extremely serious issue. According to WHO data, in fact, the phenomenon of organ transplants resulting from illegal trafficking would cover more than 10,000 annual cases and numerous journalistic investigations that have denounced how the fact is rapidly increasing, not only in Africa, but also - and perhaps this is a figure to be observed - in Italy. The number of victims, the number of clients and the number of intermediaries is increasing: a universe of surgeons, doctors, laboratory technicians, travel agents who are enriched on the skin of other living beings without any care; living beings who are increasingly willing to sell a kidney or another part of their body only to fuel the hopes of a dream or a better life and pay one-way trips to the West to escape from the painful everyday life that, often with very bloody civil wars, tears life in the countries of the Second and Third World. On 9 July last, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe adopted a Convention to combat trafficking in human organs, committing national governments to take measures to ensure that trafficking, for transplant purposes, is considered a criminal offence and to facilitate national and international cooperation to combat the phenomenon and prosecute those responsible. However, effective and real cooperation at international level will be needed to improve the practices of transplanting and organ donation and, above all, to initiate - and introduce a regime - genuine cooperation between States, as far as possible, with a view to carrying out investigations into possible infringements committed on their territory and beyond. If, therefore, it is good to specify the crime within our system, providing for severe specific sanctions related to the illegal trafficking of organs, do not forget how our task cannot end with the act of approval: there is a need to remember how a structured intervention is to be carried out in the poor countries of the world, which are the fulcrum of this horrible market, where there are those people goods and the object of illegal negotiations. It is necessary to find the most effective legal discipline against the phenomenon in order to create the conditions for increasing awareness and moral awareness of the indispensable principle that the human body or its parts are out of the trade, out of the market, which have a much greater intrinsic value than mere economic transactions. We must therefore reiterate, without delay, the need to intervene in every way to emphasize the principle that no money can be worth an organ, part of our body. In this context, Italy must do everything in its capacity and competence to comply with such unavoidable occurrences, namely to combat the illegal trafficking of organs and the related 'tourism of transplantation' by any means, in order to promote the adoption of any useful instrument for these purposes. Given that official data on the issue, as is clear, it is difficult to have it, given the implied illegality of the phenomenon, it must be recognized that it is wide-ranging and noted: a first step we are doing today with the approval of this measure. I hope that, continuing along this path, we can also accept the observation made by the Health Commission, where I was rapporteur for the measure in the consultative forum, in order to foresee, in transplant cases carried out abroad, certain specific obligations for the recipient of the organ. This should produce appropriate documentation on the donor's identity, consent to donation, characterisation of the organ and donor, process for finding, storing, labelling and transport of the transplanted organ and traceability of the transplanted organ. I would like to end this speech by quoting a brief step in the Istanbul Declaration on Organ Trafficking and Transplant Tourism of 2008, where it recognises, with regard to living donors, that the act of donation must be regarded as a heroic act and honored as such by government representatives and civil society organisations. Therefore, it would be desirable for the European States to strengthen a policy aimed at encouraging organ donation, and also for international cooperation to be achieved really in order to promote research in the field of regenerative medicine, so as to achieve, in the near future, such goals as to make no longer necessary the use of organ transplants. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Maurizio Romani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u41	She is registered to speak Senator Simeoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at last today I can, with some satisfaction, speak in favour of a bill that I believe is useful and necessary. Together with Senator Maurizio Romani we made an impervious journey, which led us to know a reality that we had difficulty believing. It has been more than a year since, meeting with lawyer David Matas, we have been revealed that human organ trafficking is not only a metropolitan legend, but, unfortunately, a bitter truth. We were told to listen to the intercepts and we were presented with documents that remove any doubt. That is why we have decided to take a number of initiatives to try to expose the phenomenon to public opinion. Illegal organ trafficking is a despicable practice, which is unworthy of the civilization achieved by man and which is practised in various countries of the world: from distant China, to the countries closest to us. Such traffic is fed by many people who have shown themselves to be complacent towards a criminal system: from doctors who perform transplants, to carriers who lend themselves to transport, to agents who put customers in contact with suppliers. The universe consists of surgeons, doctors, lab technicians or travel agents. The rivers of money come from wealthy kidney patients from Japan, Italy, Israel, Canada, Taiwan, the United States and Saudi Arabia. The populations of the South, poor but charged with an invaluable wealth for the needy of transplants, sell spare parts to the sick West and the storage sites of human beings are halfway between the two worlds. Just thinking about this commodification of the human body makes you shudder. I cannot accept that people who take advantage of this market of desperation should be defined as "customers." Those who lend themselves to feeding organ trafficking must be called by the right name: criminal. I would like to remind you here that the mayor of Roma Ignazio Marino, an international expert on the subject, has recently launched a proposal: They also go to jail for their clients. This declaration was made after the discovery that many desperate refugees come to sell their organs to traffickers to pay for their passage through the Middle East countries or to find a place on the boats. The dream of these people often becomes a nightmare when they voluntarily surrender to their torturers. For Eritrean, Sudanese, Somali and Malian refugees, the promise of traffickers is to get a job in Israel after crossing the border, but their destiny is often to arrive in a morgue with the scars of infamy on it. Desperation leads them to make desperate gestures to give hope to them and their loved ones. We cannot continue to tolerate this situation. Measures against organ trafficking must be tightened up. Operators who lend themselves to this shameful phenomenon must be punished. We can and must change things: our conscience of Italians, of civilized citizens and, above all, of being human asks us to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u43	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few comments on this draft law, which deals with an issue of extraordinary complexity and topicality. The objective of sanctioning illegal organ trafficking has led to the drafting of a text which reflects an approach, in my opinion, adapted to the sensitivity and importance of the subject. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Taking a brief look at the substance of the measure, I recall that the text introduces in the penal code, with Article 601-a, the new crime of trafficking of organs taken from living persons, considered as a common crime. Organ trafficking will be punished with imprisonment from 3 to 12 years and fine from 50,000 to 300,000 euros. If committed by a person who practises a health profession, it is expected that the practice of the profession will be perpetually prohibited. In addition, the text provides for sanctions not only for those who trade, sell, buy or procure organs, but also for those who organize travel or advertise adverts aimed at organ trafficking. Finally, the amendment of Article 416 of the Criminal Code provides for an increase in the case of the trafficking of organs becoming the real protagonists of criminal organizations. Colleagues, we are faced with the need to prevent the terrible phenomenon of the clandestine trafficking of organs from continuing in proportions and with the present cruelty. A priority for the protection of the life and health of the people involved that is even stronger in the case of Italy. Our country, in fact, by virtue of its geographically central position between Africa and Europe, is considered as a real crossroads of trade and trade at an international level. It is not by chance that the association "Sportello dei di Diritti" denounces the following: Italy has become a real point of junction for organ trafficking and trafficking in human beings to obtain organs for transplants; human beings still taken children, brought to Europe with the promise of a new life in a great country and then used for the criminal trafficking of organs. According to the World Health Organization, the international shortage of transplant organs has led to a black market for organ trading as well as the emergence of a particular type of tourism, organ transplants. In particular, the kidneys would be the busiest organs being removed without necessarily compromising the health and life of the donor. An impressive number of kidneys, about 7,000, would be at the center of these illicit trafficking every year. The illegal trade in organs generates a turnover of more than a billion dollars each year. A practice which, according to the World Health Organization, risks taking undue advantage at the expense of the poorest and most vulnerable groups; it also undermines donations of spontaneous organs and leads to the looting of human lives. According to D'Agata, the problem is that probably even today the fight against this form of crime is not addressed globally, perhaps because underestimated by the authorities. The Bill of Rights still argues that the European Union and the Member States, starting from Italy, should adopt a common strategy to combat this scourge by boycotting and banning all forms of trafficking and trade in organs. In order to promote a coordinated approach to this issue, the European Union has recently adopted two relevant directives, which our country will have to transpose with the law of European delegation currently under consideration by the competent Senate Commission. The Directives adopted in 2010 and 2012 lay down rules to ensure the quality and safety of transplant organs throughout the Union, ensuring high standards of protection for the health of donors and patients undergoing organ transplantation. At the same time, however, it is also noted that unacceptable practices of organ trafficking, sometimes linked to trafficking in human beings for the purpose of taking organs, constitute a serious violation of fundamental rights and, in particular, human dignity and physical integrity. The same Directive, while recalling that it has as its first objective the safety and quality of organs, states that the legislation to be transposed contributes indirectly to the fight against organ trafficking through the establishment of specialised authorities through the authorisation of transplant centres, the establishment of conditions for the procurement and systems for the traceability of organs. We must be able to support a dual approach to the issue of organ transplants: on the one hand, we must promote virtuous practices within a common European area, where there is a genuine circulation of regulated and secure information and exchanges of organs for transplants. On the other hand, we must create a repressive apparatus that effectively blocks the illegal routes and trade that cross Italy and the other Member States. But the dimensions of these phenomena also transcend the territories of the individual continents. That is why we need a coordinated approach at international level, which unfortunately has so far been almost completely absent. As already mentioned, in a context characterized by a strong gap between demand and supply in the most advanced countries, the scarcity of available organs leads to the proliferation of illicit trade of a transactional character, involving the weakest sections of the population of poor or developing countries. Precisely as a phenomenon of pure exploitation of the human body, in complete contempt for life and human dignity, organ trafficking is an extremely profitable business for international gangs and criminal organizations. In this regard, a further disturbing profile reported by an Italian newspaper is highlighted. It is recalled, in fact, that the Iraqi ambassador to the UN denounces that ISIS's economic interests could be hidden behind the trafficking of organs, which would also use this trade for its financing. We are here to strongly argue that the destruction of this traffic must be stopped and severely punished. All of Parliament's forces, by putting aside political divisions, must try to be united and determined, at least on these issues, because there is a need for clear legislation that will punish those who are the protagonists of these petty practices. I believe it is essential that this draft law continues the path towards final approval and I hope that Italy will take a clear and lucid position in contrast to a cruel and inhuman market. The Senate Justice Commission, after a broad and constructive debate, took a first and important step. But it is now up to us, in this House, to proceed to ensure that this draft law continues smoothly and is adopted. I shall conclude, Mr President. I hope that the Government, at least on this occasion, will show responsibility. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u45	We greet students and teachers of the State School "Leonardo da Vinci and Orazio Nucula" in Terni, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u46	Mr President, the draft law which tightens the penalties for the trafficking of organs intended for transplantation, which we are about to approve, provides us with an additional regulatory instrument to deal with a problem that we can no longer think concerns us. According to the World Health Organization, nearly 10% of the 63,000 transplanted kidneys each year are found illegally in poor countries. Since the new anti-rejection therapies have made transplants easier, especially kidney transplants, an illegal market of organs that exploits donor poverty has developed since India. Since then, other countries with strong pockets of poverty, from South Africa to Brazil, have been hit by this obscene phenomenon. The case of China is the most disturbing one: since 1984 the law on the forced explant of organs of the executed prisoners, which should have ceased its effects with the beginning of 2015 (we will see if this will actually happen), has kept the number of transplants very high (more than 10,000 per year), with the well-founded suspicion that the possibility of reselling the organs in turn kept the number of sentenced to death higher. But this number had remained abnormal compared to the standards of other countries, even in the face of an established decrease in executions. Only since 2006 has there been a suspicion that something even more terrible could happen in China. Since 1999, the President of the People's Republic of China, Jiang Zemin, has launched a violent campaign to eradicate Falun Gong, a very popular traditional spiritual practice, with mass arrests of its members. The suspicion that the arrested people could be subjected to kidney explantation from alive or be killed in order to transplant the organs has turned into a serious international alarm, so much so as to provoke the position of the UN. The Commission against the torture of the United Nations expressed concern at the allegations of forced explantation of organs to prisoners and called on the Government of the People's Republic of China to increase the level of accountability and transparency of the organ transplant system. I focused a little on the Chinese issue because the persecution of the members of the Falun Gong was the subject of a discussion here in the Senate Human Rights Commission on 19 December 2013, in the presence of David Matas, candidate for the Nobel Peace Prize in 2010, and representatives of the Italian association Falun Dafa. A few days earlier, on 12 December, the European Parliament adopted a resolution condemning and denouncing the practice of explanting prisoners of conscience who were not consenting, and on 5 March 2014, the Senate Human Rights Commission adopted a resolution on the explantation of organs by prisoners in China exactly a year ago. Unfortunately, today the issue is another, and perhaps closer to the geography of horror. The Mediterranean, starting from Egypt seems to have become the global center of organ trafficking. The refugees who are driven by despair from Eritrea, Sudan, Somalia and Mali sometimes pay with the explantation of a kidney the cost of migration to Europe or Israel to Sudanese traffickers. Japan, Israel, Canada, Taiwan, the United States, Saudi Arabia and even Italy are the countries from which the request comes. The investigation of Lampedusa's landings led to the arrest of five Eritreans in Rome. The Italian judiciary is investigating a smuggling of migrants who would be asked for organs in exchange for the trip. In June 2013, an Israeli on whom an international arrest warrant issued by Brazil for trafficking in human organs, Tauber Gedalya, was arrested at Fiumicino airport. Then there's another place near us on this map of horror. In eastern Ukraine, in the Donbass region, corpses without internal organs were found in mass graves. We are perhaps repeating what has already happened in the former Yugoslavia, in particular in the conflict in Kosovo, where, as it turns out, Albanians took domestic organs from Serbian prisoners to sell them in Europe. The draft law we are about to vote will certainly provide our judiciary with a new instrument to attack the phenomenon. We hope that it will also serve to keep the attention of the Italian public on a phenomenon and a practice less distant from us than was thought until some time ago. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u47	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u48	Mr President, organ transplantation is one of the miracles of 20th century medicine, it has prolonged and improved the lives of hundreds of patients all over the world and the many great scientific and clinical discoveries have walked hand in hand with countless acts of generosity from organ donors and their families, who have made transplantation a symbol of human solidarity, the true one. However, these successes have been partly overshadowed by more and more trafficking in human beings, used as sources of organs. Human beings who are sold as spare parts to answer the demand of the rich sick. I recall two cases, Mr President: in the first, we find intermediaries who push poor people, even especially children, to sell a kidney or an eye to allow their family to survive; in the second, we find people who are killed during an intervention to take their organs and tissues; and here, Mr President, we assume the trafficking of organs with the disappearance of minors and illegals, who are suspected of being kidnapped and killed precisely because of this gruesome practice. The trafficking of organs constitutes a serious violation of human rights, a phenomenon that has reached global dimensions. A clandestine practice whose quantification is still absolutely difficult today. The World Health Organisation estimates that more than 10,000 organ transplants from illegal trafficking are carried out each year. In order to have a parameter, around 115,000 legal transplants are performed worldwide each year, so it can be assumed that about one in 12 transplants are performed under absolutely illegal conditions with organs taken from subjects not always consenting. The illegal market for organs is booming, more and more active is the practice of guaranteeing organs to those in need. Financial upheavals are causing surprising growth in the black market for organs. For example, desperate people in Greece sell parts of their bodies on the Internet, in what appears to be a macabre trade based on mutual despair, who buys and who sells. Many countries are affected by the scourge of organ smuggling: China, India, Brazil, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, Congo, Thailand, where men, women and children are used as spare parts by unscrupulous criminals. Turkey is the main European country with regard to organ trafficking, with a tourism of subjects waiting for a transplant coming mainly from the United States, England, Germany, France, Israel and also, unfortunately, from our country, Italy. In the United States, 18 people die every day while waiting for an organ donor; every ten minutes a new name is added to the list of transplants to be performed; at the end of 2013, data say that patients waiting for a transplant were about 100,000, in Europe more than 60,000 people are waiting for a transplant. In this scenario, criminal organizations are clearly included. These illegal organisations act on both sides of the organ market: on the supply side, they identify those desperate and willing to do anything and on the demand side they trace patients, potential buyers, generally wealthy people. In recent years, transplant tourism organisations have been established and it is well known that wealthy foreigners in China take precedence over Chinese bodies, which are able to pay at a very high price, among other things. A dramatic trade, because played on a ridge between life and death, a trade that can lead to having a kidney and a lung in about a month if required illegally, while in America to receive a compatible kidney the wait goes from four to five years. The organs are often sold in exchange for the escape from their country, Africa is the rising supplier of the business that today involves about 50 nations, so much so that the World Health Organization has estimated that among the transplanted kidneys every year many are illegally hunted in the second and third world. Here are then inserted Eritrean scafists, Sinai Bedouins, Nigerian traffickers and brokers around the world work in the shadow of some of these 63,000 kidney transplants estimated each year. Even among the subjects that have reached Lampedusa and other points of the Sicilian coast, the danger of brokers increases, alarm always spread in ambush, before and after the crossing. Already in 2009, the then Interior Minister Maroni - the issue was also taken up by the previous colleague - spoke, during the presentation of UNICEF's humanitarian report, of 400 children who disappeared from Lampedusa and, Mr President, studies show that the commercial exploitation of organs involves risks from both parties: patients who illegally buy organs have much more opportunities to contract infections and also to die. 11:38 a.m. (continued COUNCIL). The sellers recruited among the poorest populations see in most cases their psychophysical state deteriorates due to the lack of controls. Given the seriousness and extent of this tragedy, we believe that only with uniform national and international legislation will it be possible to give a decisive response. Like other European countries, Italy, although several regulations relating to organ transplantation, has a reduced sanctioning apparatus in the area of illegal trafficking. The two main regulations, just to remind them, Law No. 458 of 1967 on the transplant of the kidney on living persons and Law No. 91 of 1999 on the collection of organs and tissues from corpses, provide sanctions exclusively for those who carry out the mediation activity and the health worker who makes use of organs fruit of commerce, but no penalty is previewed against other parts directly or indirectly involved in the unlawful traffic. It is also easy to think, Mr President, that having a clear idea of how to create a regulation is absolutely difficult, especially in relation to the different social and medical realities of many parts of the world, especially in poor countries, but the hope is that at least in Europe (and perhaps this is also the reason why we are in this House) we can foresee a rule that has an international and national legal character, with the introduction of criminal cases aimed at defining organ trafficking, preventing it and enforcing the principle that the human body and its parts cannot be marketed. This draft law, Mr President, with its two articles goes precisely in the direction of introducing into the penal code the offence of association aimed at the trafficking of organs intended for transplantation. I would like to conclude, Mr President, by thanking the association AIDO, a gold medal in public health, an association of people who willingly agree to donate their organs, tissues and cells in the event of death, for the strong commitment, responsibility and dedication they put into this very delicate function. Therefore, in addition to providing a criminal case for those mentioned, I believe that we will need to increase, promote and strengthen associations which, through their activities, play a very delicate role in the social and health fabric. Finally, I hope that in the future there will be the possibility of refining the bill in our examination with some measures, calibrating it to the functions that will be examined and possibly improving the law. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u49	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain why there has been a need to further legislate on this illegality through draft law No 922. Thanks to research, science has made enormous strides over the last twenty years, facilitating the improvement of the quality of life, as well as the prospects and the hope of life in temporal terms, of those who are linked to a thread, waiting for a new organ that allows him the above stated: to live better and longer. All this cannot be achieved through an unlawful, that is, through the procurement of an organ, therefore of life, to the detriment of another living being to which, in an unlawful manner and in the absence of consent, a part of itself is removed, causing the death of the subject himself as in the case of the taking of a vital, unequal and median organ. Senator Maurizio Romani, in his previous exhibition, well described the process that takes place when an organ is found illegally, how the organ is found and what happens to the donor who is not consenting. In our country for the manifestation of the will to give, the principle of consent or explicit dissent applies (Article 23 of Law No 91 of 1999). The silence-consent introduced by Articles 4 and 5 of Law No 91 of 1999 has never been implemented. All adult citizens are therefore offered the possibility (not the obligation) to declare their will (consent or denial) regarding the donation of organs and tissues after death, through various forms: for example, the registration of their will at their reference ASL or the family doctor, through a special form; the compilation of the so-called blue card of the Ministry of Health or the card of one of the industry associations, which must be kept together with personal documents; any written declaration containing name, surname, date of birth, declaration of will (positive or negative), date and signature, (considered valid for the purposes of the declaration by the Ministerial Decree 8 April 2000), also to be kept among personal documents; the holographic act of the National Association of Organ Donors (AIDO). Thanks to a 2008 agreement between the National Transplant Centre and AIDO, these declarations also flow directly into the SIT (Transplant Information System). In order to reach the complete clinical governance of the donation-transplantation process, the essential prerequisite is that the management quality of the coordination centres (local, regional and interregional) is of first order and high level. It must be recognised as being able to offer the highest possible operational guarantee in terms of efficiency and effectiveness throughout the system. Having said that, in order to understand such a complex and articulated system, it is necessary to start from the managerial check-up of the operational path that, from the identification of the potential donor, leads to the transplant. In doing so, the best approach is represented by the description of the process at each stage (filiera), the analysis of the operational and decision-making processes through the examination of their components (typology of treated patients and participating units) as well as the required operational tasks and behaviours (human resources involved, procedures and methods adopted). In Italian experience, from donor reporting to transplant surgery, they spend an average of ten hours. Over this period, more than a hundred people, of different disciplines and structures, often located in several cities, interact with the donation-relief-transplantation event. In these hours it is necessary to ascertain and certify death according to the established statutory criteria; to assess the suitability of the donor as well as of the individual organs and tissues; to consult the waiting lists and to identify, through the computer systems, the possible recipients; to carry out immunological tests to verify donor-receiver compatibility; to assign the different organs available to the selected patients, ensuring first of all the needs and national programmes; to activate the necessary means of transport (cars, ambulances, aircraft, helicopters, etc.) for the transport of biological samples and teams to and from different locations; to convene the recipients in the transplant centres and evaluate the clinical conditions; to carry out the collection of tissue organs, to draw up and collect the intended minutes; to close the process with the computer transmission of the event to the National Center for Transplants and to take charge of the follow-up of transplanted patients. The whole process unfolds through resuscitation, business management, coordination centres, immunology laboratories, laboratories and diagnostic services, transplant centres, rescue stations and transport companies. A great involvement, therefore, of not only clinical, surgical and immunological competences, but also logistical ones, which must integrate each other in a perfect harmony. It is clear that in such a large and complex framework the organisational and management aspect plays a decisive role by requiring the professional commitment of experienced personnel at the various levels of the chain, with a distribution of tasks and roles such as to make fluid every phase of the entire journey. The transplant still remains a particularly demanding and complex surgical procedure which generally consists in the removal of an irreversibly ill organ and its replacement with a healthy organ. We generally say because it is what happens in most transplants, but it is not uncommon to implant the new organ as an auxiliary to the native one or, as in the case of kidney transplantation, the implant of the same in different place (heterotopic) from the natural one. However, today it is still considered the extreme act of surgery, both from a technical point of view, for the high complexity of the performance, and from an organizational point of view, for the need to have numerous specialist skills given the multifactorial nature of the pathologies that are treated with it; it is however the crowning of a long path, that has seen various professional figures who have alternated in the process of care of the patient and in the assistance of the donor. It is therefore a time of great responsibility not only of the transplant surgeon but of the whole transplant system. The technology applied to science, good practices, the legality of the act, ensure that the maneuvers carried out are guaranteed and traceable, which is not the case in the illegal collection of organs. It is a few months ago, exactly Friday, November 21, 2014, the first liver withdrawal in the world with Google glass technology, in Florence: it was performed at Careggi hospital by surgeons Emanuele Balzano and Davide Ghinolfi of the operating unit of liver surgery and liver transplantation of the Pisan hospital-university company, directed by Franco Filipponi. The Region of Tuscany explains that the Google glass project to support the safety and quality of organ withdrawals is a novelty in the transplant world. Research and innovation have greatly facilitated the duration of the interventions, which is different from transplant to transplant and varies from two to fifteen hours. He sees not only the transplant team engaged, but the entire structure where it is based. The phase preceding the transplant provides for the convocation of the recipient (s); their reception; the clinical and diagnostic insights required by the surgery and the specific preparation for the intervention itself. It is therefore essential to have the collaboration of all services within the structure (laborators, diagnostic services, specialist advice). The need to adopt and comply with encoded and efficient organisational procedures that can ensure a normal and productive performance therefore responds to a real need. In order to address the health needs of patients waiting, in terms of the number of organs provided, the safety and quality of the same, it is now necessary to structure the management path in several stages, define for each phase the processes, the actors, the responsibilities and certify correctly what has been achieved. In other words, it is necessary to include in the management process elements of stability, quality and guarantee that ensure, in full respect of ethical principles and humanization, the adequate professionalism of the entire journey. All this is not guaranteed in the illegal trafficking of organs, it is also important to stress that organ donation is an act of great civilization and respect for life. Gifting means giving, giving spontaneously and without rewarding something that belongs to us. On the basis of this cannot be justified the procurement of an organ, through the sale, by a patient who is sick waiting for transplantation, with a very low life expectancy (even less on the part of his procacciator); therefore cannot remain unpunished the concept of my life, your death, is not human thing. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Roman Senators Maurizio and Fucksia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u51	Senator Aiello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u52	Mr President, we have had the opportunity to listen very carefully to the report carried out at the time and we would like to move the reasoning more on the ethical and legal aspects, given that in fact over time in Italy we have come to have increasingly developed methods and tools to manage the risk associated with the donation and transplantation of organs, tissues and cells. We refer to the integrated system of risk management in transplants, organized by the National Network transplants, which has allowed and will allow to anticipate and control all the technical-health aspects inherent in donation and transplantation. The Italian system, unlike others, is certainly now an international reference point also recognised by the World Health Organization and, among other things, this project, as we have already heard, has enhanced local, regional and national competences of the health system. In addition, other interesting data are the increase in donors, the decline in opposition, the decrease in waiting lists. Of course, as Senator Romani has also pointed out, there is still a good part of the population who rejects this gesture of solidarity that is capable of saving other lives. Each country should be able to achieve self-sufficiency or, in any case, should share in creating a network between nations, ensuring the standardisation and transparency of trade. However, in all this context, the transplant technique remains an essential element. Of course, this event is not free from risks, such as the transmission of diseases, the still limited supply, but above all the trafficking of organs (which today represents the greatest evil) and the concrete risk of undesirable, serious and unforeseen accidents in terms of health security and illegal conduct. The World Health Organization, as has been pointed out several times in previous speeches, reports that 10% of all transplants are illegally carried out resulting in huge profits and therefore it is obvious that with this pressing and urgent demand, as experts say, illegal marketing is highly active. Among other things, the progress of immunosuppressant drugs, such as ciclosporin, combined with medical tourism and also the use of the Internet has contributed to amplifying both the demand and the offer of expiants or illegal withdrawals. Certainly, specifically illegal transplants, the general impression is that to date effective rules and instruments have not been adopted, especially to prevent, contain and combat this activity which sometimes also involves the scientific community. In addition, this market involves more and more vulnerable victims, such as prisoners and kidnapped children (the so-called pay donation phenomenon). The World Health Organization, in addition to other international organisations, recommends that national legislation should protect the poorest from transplant tourism, with harsh sanctions as well as specific international conventions against trafficking, in order to identify conditions and conduct that define and characterize it. Even more, the market of parts of the human body presents different and rough problems depending on whether they are living individuals or corpses or concerning cells and tissues. However, with regard to sanitary safety, transmission of hepatitis (C or B), HIV, fungi, bacteria or parasites may also result in the death of the recipient. In fact, in organ trafficking all the necessary precautions (risk analysis and benefits of the recipient, donor profiles and transport) are contained or, even, are missing (see in this regard the quotation that has been made on the Chinese issue). Moreover, since a donor of organs is often also a donor of tissues, there are also restrictions on the quality and safety of tissues and cells, as provided for in Amendment 1,103, signed by Senators Giovanardi and Sacconi, concerning precisely the import of cells and human tissues. In this respect, we consider this amendment to be extremely interesting and important because it places particular emphasis on those who receive compensation for obtaining cells and tissues of human origin taken from living people. Importation of cells and tissues of human origin for clinical purposes is only permitted by non-profit institutions and institutes. Exports of cells and tissues of human origin are permitted only to non-profit institutions and institutes. We therefore call on the House to consider this amendment very carefully. Another type of commercial activity is developed in this area, which does not seem to be less indisputable than the previous ones. In fact, contrary to the organs that must be transplanted promptly (about 48 hours), human tissues can be stored much longer, in banks specializing in the collection, preservation and treatment of the tissues themselves. It is true that there are non-profit banks, but there are also commercial banks. The first ones are limited to invoice the work of preparation and preservation of fabrics at cost price. Seconds start from the principle that every service deserves a fee and therefore derive huge benefits from the treatment of tissues. Mr President, if I may, I would now like to stress that, in order to combat marketing and to ensure a free donation, in addition to what is specified, some attention should be paid to health professionals, especially those who are unscrupulous, who are willing to participate in traffic, ensuring that the donor is prepared, preserved, stored and transferred. In this sense, what should be the position of the health care professional? Very delicate, of course. As invested in his therapeutic and welfare tasks even in clandestine operations, can you avoid? Do you, however, have to answer absolutely to the ethical call of profession and responsibility, regardless of, to a patient, whoever he is? There is always a risk that behind professional secrecy or deontological obligation there will be a way to indulge a crime or become conniving, as they are aware. All the more so since the unequal treatment between the one who gives in and the one who receives is very evident. In fact, those who give in are usually abandoned to themselves, while those who receive are still followed and cared for. Therefore, health care, technical staff, doctors are free to decide according to science and conscience, but they must reserve the ethical obligation to the services that require real necessity. We must not compromise ourselves a priori in the organization of the criminal event. As far as I am concerned, therefore, it would be correct to say that precautions, both legal and ethical, are not adequate to date. In some countries various parliaments have also legislated ethical standards. We have other ideas, namely that prevention in the case of potential abuses in the profession should not be a consequence of parliamentary acts and that therapeutic standards represent a professional responsibility that orders should adopt regardless of whether health care is provided in pre-implantation care - I think, for example, to all investigations preparatory to transplantation or organs purchased or the prescription of medicines used beyond transplantation or, for example, to the provision of medical records to patients, if these are used in support of abusive transplants - both for care and post-transplantation treatment, unless there is an emergency or life-threatening situation. In conclusion, the ethical-deontological aspects of transplants have long been the subject of numerous national and international documents with a considerable production of directives and guidelines which, moreover, have not had the hoped-for impact, especially on the issue of the sale of organs. Today, it is more necessary than ever, beyond any regulatory intervention, to have an impact on the key aspect of the issue, an aspect from which all the health and legal consequences start and branch off in cascade and, that is, to outline once and for all in a concrete and universal way the international ethical and ethical standards fundamental for the medical practice and for the protection of the health of the living donor and the recipient, for the right to information, for the consent and for the prohibition of the trade of organs. The ethical principles of reference, such as the principle of therapeutic proportionality, i.e. the medical act in which the benefits are always greater than the risks (at least this should be the case), the protection of the donor and the recipient, the prohibition on trade and the principle of social solidarity, as an inspiration for donation, will remain an open issue. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u53	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u54	Mr President, the draft law under discussion provides for an amendment to the penal code on the trafficking of organs intended for transplantation. Unfortunately, the international existence of illicit trafficking in human organs is an acclaimed fact, which represents one of the most macroscopic - and sometimes aberrant - violations of fundamental human rights. It is widely held that effective instruments have not yet been adopted, both at national and international level, to prevent, contain and, above all, combat these criminal activities, which are notoriously and necessarily also involving medical and paramedical personnel. As indicated by the National Committee for Bioethics, in its report of 23 May 2013, this illicit market often involves at international level the most vulnerable people in our societies, such as prisoners, sentenced to death, minors. It is articulated and developed along the sadly well-known directive from the South to the North of the world, from the poorest countries to the richest. Transplantation tourism, also due to the scarcity of available organs, is an acclaimed phenomenon. In this regard, the World Health Organisation has repeatedly called on the States of the international community to take measures to protect the poorest and most vulnerable groups precisely from transplant tourism and the sale of human organs, preventing the purchase and sale of human organs for transplants. Italy, although several regulations relating to organ transplantation, has a sanctioning apparatus, with regard to clandestine organ trafficking, which appears to be inadequate. The two main regulations (Law No. 458 of 1967 on the transplantation of kidney between living persons and Law No. 91 of 1999 on the collection of organs and tissues from corpses) provide for, for example, sanctions exclusively for those who carry out mediation activities and for the healthcare professional who makes use of organs produced by trade, but no penalty is provided for in respect of other parties directly or indirectly involved in illicit trafficking. We therefore welcome the introduction of the draft law under discussion, which, through the introduction into the criminal code of the crime of association aimed at the trafficking of organs, aims to better define the perimeter of this crime, giving precise criminal responsibilities to all those involved. But above all we welcome the deterrent effect and the affirmation of the principle that the human body or its parts are not and can never be the subject of trade. In conclusion, I hope that the approval of this standard will also provide the basis for greater action by all those involved, both at national and international level, towards an improvement in transplant and donation practices. In view of the international dimension of the issues relating to this subject, the Government should be actively involved in promoting in the appropriate international fora, first and foremost, a convention to ensure the necessary effectiveness of national legislation on organ trafficking and, secondly, closer cooperation between countries, in order to effectively combat the phenomenon of transplant tourism. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u55	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u56	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking my colleague Maurizio Romani for giving the attention of the Senate Health Commission and this House to a serious problem, which raises social alarm and which has led the Commission to identify rules which, even by revising the original text, take into account a fact, namely the existence of an organ transplant practice which causes - as I have just said - a serious social alarm. The same penalties, albeit high, are finally consistent, because we are talking about hateful facts and exceptional gravity, which even contradict the very existence of man and human life, so as to justify a very serious sanction. For this reason, by amending the legislation currently in force, it is envisaged to introduce Article 601-a into the penal code, which punishes the trafficking of organs or parts of organs taken from living persons. The text is balanced because, while on the one hand it introduces the perpetual prohibition from the exercise of the health profession in the event that we become responsible for these facts, on the other we punish those who, even through relationships and travels abroad, favour the possibility of such transplants. In Article 416 of the Criminal Code, a hypothesis is also introduced for the purposes of the involvement of the criminal association, concerning the collection of organs, both from living persons and from deceased persons, precisely because of the danger that criminal organizations may implement certain practices, which also serve in some cases according to the law. It is right, then, that there should be further punishment and this is the establishment of the law, which I believe should be approved as soon as possible. At the same time, the measure we are examining is evidence that, when we actually point out a problem that afflicts society and which raises social alarm, Parliament, regardless of the political groups, is able to find mutually agreed solutions. This should teach us how to use the same method in many other cases than other laws. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u57	Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u58	Mr President, I would also like to say a few words about this extremely important measure, in order to include a crime against actions which are certainly unspeakable, deplorable and shameful. However, I would like to focus on a few aspects which call for a slightly different approach. It is true that providing for strong sanctions for these operations is important, but we must remember that when the court intervenes with sanctions, we have already failed as an overall system. In fact, this means that we have not been able to do anything that limits - I do not say zero, because it is impossible, but advances - interventions so that we do not get to this. For this reason, I would like to draw attention to a number of points. First of all, it is clear that - as some Members have already said - this must be regarded as a serious violation of human rights. I would like to recall here the Oviedo Convention, which dates back to 1997 (thus several years ago) and which was signed by the Council of Europe. Article 2, which bears the title "Prime of the human being" states that "the interest and good of the human being must prevail over the sole interest of society or of science." This is a fundamental principle which is all too often neglected and sometimes even contradicted by the behaviour not only of those who run into these events, which are to be considered absolutely serious from the criminal point of view, but also of those who consider the human body and its parts as a source of profit (this is another issue that the Oviedo Convention expressly refers to in Article 21 and to which we must adhere in all respects). I would like to draw attention to the Italian situation with regard to all this and also to the fact that, as it turns out, the traffic in organs does not appear to be an Italian problem. I will try to bring back some elements of knowledge and also give some explanation. The National Center for Transplants has worked to try to verify the possible presence in Italy of problems of organ trading and, in recent years, has put in place two actions, precisely in view of recent developments at international level, and not only national, regarding this topic. As for the way in which one can try to grasp the possible existence of these phenomena, which obviously escape from the natural observations, two possibilities have been put in place. The first is through the verification of requests for authorisation and reimbursement to the TECAS system, which is the one used by the Regions to ask the Ministry for refunds and authorizations for services carried out abroad. The second is even more interesting. Since organ trafficking affects almost exclusively kidney transplants, a national survey was carried out on the Italian waiting lists for the possible detection of patients enrolled in the lists and who have left the list, and not for reasons related to a transplant or changes in their clinical conditions, i.e. patients who have disappeared from the lists. 45 of these patients were identified. Through a careful control that has been done in the individual regions and, above all, with the collaboration of dialysis centers, it has been established that they were all patients returned to dialysis after leaving and that, for the most part, they had often refused the transplant for psychological reasons - alas - (we know how complex the issue) or personal. So, to date, we can say that there are no concrete elements - at least, to the knowledge of the National Transplant Centre - that make it possible to affirm the existence of such phenomena. Of course, I do not think it can be excluded that there is a relatively small number of situations that escapes all the evidence, but of which we do not count today; this is also because we know that, when a transplant is done abroad and the citizen then returns to Italy, he needs to be followed by health facilities, which, of course, should realize the need. But the problem is to ask yourself why these shameful facts happen. I would like to make a few comments on this point, because the problem of poverty usually comes back. We know that extreme conditions, not only economic but also material and cultural, can push a person to sell, trade, profit or even buy an organ. And it is established that unfortunately these phenomena occur almost always in one direction: they are the poorest bands of the poorest countries that sell the organ to the richest countries and to the richest individuals of the countries that buy it. Then again we are faced with a question of poverty, which increasingly forces us to reflect on the enormous inequalities that exist at international level. This problem is being called into question and of course we must remember it. A second issue on which I would like to draw the attention of this House is the dependence on the adequacy of public health systems in different countries. In countries where public health systems guarantee a number of requirements, the phenomenon is extremely limited. I am referring, in particular, to health systems such as the Italian one that guarantee: traceability of every donation and every transplant, imperviousness of the network to unknown organs from abroad, computer coverage of all the activities of donation and transplantation and close control of the activity carried out on the territory. Those mentioned are all requirements which, by ensuring traceability and transparency of activities, can ensure with sufficient firmness that illegal organ trafficking is a very minimal phenomenon. In this respect, the National Center for Transplants has an important international reputation for the ability it has demonstrated to create, together with the Regions, a rigorous system not only from the clinical point of view, but also of transparency and clarity of results. I am sorry that among the representatives of the Government who are here today there are not those of the Ministry of Health, since it is not only a question of penalising absolutely incorrect action, but also of understanding why our systems have some weaknesses. I repeat, perhaps it would have been useful to have the presence of the Ministry of Health as well. A third aspect I want to focus on is that all the studies and international experience allow us to say that illegal organ trafficking is, at least in part, a consequence of the global shortage of organs and the little widespread culture of donation: a deficiency aggravated by the lack of attention to the pathways of prevention of organ dysfunction and the lack of timely and adequate assistance to patients who, otherwise, are destined to be included in a waiting list for a transplant. The prevention of diseases leading to the need for transplantation is an important issue on which health systems, particularly public health systems, must work much more. This is also an issue of great importance for public health decision-makers, as reiterated by the Istanbul Charter signed in 2008 by all countries. This measure concerning organ transplantation, which we are inserting into the criminal code, is important - as has already been said - and it is also important that it is quickly adopted. In the meantime, I would like to point out that we must not mix the materials. This measure concerns the penalisation of trade in organ transplants. Extending matter to other possible transplants, such as cells and tissues, would only create huge confusion, both from a technical and a regulatory point of view. So let's start with this aspect without creating elements of confusion. Secondly, let us bear in mind that the Convention, adopted by the Council of Europe in July 2014, committed governments to taking measures to ensure that organ trafficking was considered a crime, facilitated international cooperation and countered the phenomenon. Europe has called all the countries on this issue, where Italy still has to implement and sign the Convention. It is important that this is done as soon as possible, so that not only actions to penalise shameful behaviors are put in place, but also additional elements that can help patients not to contract diseases requiring transplantation and, above all, if patients need it, an adequate response can be found in the public health system. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bencini and Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u59	We address a greeting to the students and teachers of the secondary school of the first degree "Master Giorgio-Nelli" of Gubbio, in the province of Perugia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u60	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u61	Mr President, I should like to speak quickly because we must note with satisfaction the approach of all the speeches this morning on a particularly sensitive subject, namely the trafficking of organs intended for transplantation. Basically, the message from European and international bodies was well received, with particular reference to the Council of Europe's latest measure, which dates back to 2014, as previously indicated by both the 1997 Council of Europe Convention of Oviedo and the World Health Organisation of 2004. It is a trafficking of organs which constitutes a particularly hateful form of trafficking in human beings, which violates one of the fundamental rights of the person in a heavy and totally unacceptable way, namely the right to physical integrity and human dignity. A number of amendments have been tabled, which will be examined in the course of our debate, but the comments made by all those who have spoken, which are extremely positive, will enable us to proceed in a convincing way with a rapid approval, during this same day, of the text of the draft law which has come to the work of this House, in the text which has already been amended by the work of the Commission for Justice. I am therefore leaving for specific assessments of the content and themes proposed by the amendments to the continuation of the work and, therefore, probably at this afternoon's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u62	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u63	Mr President, I too would like to thank the members of the Justice Commission and the rapporteur for the work they have done. As has been said, this is an important draft law which deals with a very complex subject, as also emerged from the interventions of the senators, since it affects very sensitive interests not only from the scientific point of view but also for the profiles of international collaboration. The date of 9 July 2014 has already been mentioned, when the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe adopted an International Convention with the aim of penalising organ trafficking for transplant purposes, of protecting victims - and this is another interest that we must bear in mind when we go to legislate - and of facilitating cooperation at national and international level in order to more effectively prosecute those responsible for such trafficking. The Treaty stipulates that Member States should introduce a criminal case into their criminal system and, therefore, indicates a clear line as regards the punishable use of illegal transplantation by persons, when there is - and this is another time, including from the legal point of view, which must be highlighted - a free, informed and specific consent of the donor, when the transplantation is not authorised by national legislation and where there is economic gain or other comparable advantage from practice. So these are the interests that we must look at and - I must say - the basic text, which is being proposed to this House today, takes account of. In fact, the adoption of this Convention, which inter alia intervened when the draft law was presented, has also led to certain choices that are shared by the Government. The original bill No 922 provided for an associative offence aimed at the illicit trafficking of organs and amendments to Law No 91 of 1999, in particular Articles 22 and 22-bis, which provides for single-subjective offences in the matter of organ transplants. The text that was approved in the Justice Commission on 12 November 2014, on the other hand, has changed perspective and focuses on the construction of a new single-subjective crime. The new crime, in particular, punishes with imprisonment from three to twelve years, and the fine from 50,000 euros to 300,000 euros, who trades or procures organs or parts of organs taken from a living person. The Commission's text - as has already been highlighted by both the rapporteur and Senator Romani - also provides for a worsening of the penalty compared to that of the basic penalty for the association to criminals, for the case in which the association is aimed at this new crime or those referred to in Articles 22, paragraphs 3 and 4, and 22-a, paragraph 1, of Law No 91 of 1999. These are crimes related to the procurement of organs taken from persons whose death has been established, pursuant to Law No 578 of 1993, since these are hypotheses characterized by a greater disvalue than that of any criminal association. Moreover, the text provides for the repeal of the administrative offence referred to in paragraph 2 of article 22-a, which has been cited (the advertising of the request for the offer of organs), and the increase of the penalty of the crime referred to in paragraph 1 of article 22-a, already mentioned, which concerned mediation in the donation of organs from living: the current sentence from three to six years, plus the fine, is carried with this text from three to eight years, plus the fine. These changes are in line with what has also been pointed out by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe and allow the law and order forces to have instruments, a clearer definition of the criminal case and constituent elements that certainly facilitate and make more effective the repression of these criminal acts, which require effective protection and, from the point of view of penalties, more effective. I have also listened with interest to all the speeches concerning, in part, the amendments which have been tabled. There is one of the rapporteur who rightly proposes to include further illegal conduct, which is that of the one dealing with it. We therefore want to punish, in order to be able to suppress, every possible criminal manifestation and every kind of illegal conduct in the matter of organ trafficking. I would also like to draw the House's attention to two amendments. The first is amendment 11.02 which, by making donation and receipt equivalent, can create confusion. It requires clarification, because it also punishes the giver, and we must not forget that today the giver of his own organ does not commit a crime and that of the donor is a positive action to be protected. We must not create misunderstandings and, therefore, we must clarify the content of amendment 1,102, trying not to create confusion in the interpreter on the term "gift." The second is amendment 1.103. I have listened to a number of speeches and I think we need to be careful about them, partly because I must honestly say that this amendment concerns a sensitive subject, where it speaks of non-criminality for non-profit institutions and refers to the term "cells." The concept of cell is so broad that it requires to deepen what is also meant - as Senator Dirindin has already pointed out - from the scientific-sanitary point of view. Moreover, this amendment extends the scope of the case to the goods of cells and tissues of human origin, a subject which is not covered by this draft law. And I recall that on the point is already in force Legislative Decree No. 85 of 30 May 2012, which intervenes by making amendments and additions to Legislative Decree No. 16 of 25 January 2010, which implements Community directives no. 17 and 86 of 2006, in turn implementing Directive No 23 of 2004 laying down technical requirements for the donation, procurement and control of human tissues and cells, as well as traceability requirements. I believe that the subject dealt with by Amendment No 1,103 is very sensitive and, having listened also to Senator Aiello's speech, I think that or we decide to deepen it, involving the Ministry of Health that has precise scientific competences in this matter, or otherwise, the state, lacks elements for an assessment on the subject. I would therefore like to return to you, to the Assembly and to the Conference of Leaders which I think will follow, the assessment of how to deepen this point, unless there is a withdrawal of amendment 1,103, clearly with the commitment of the Government to deepen it. The problem exists and - as I said - there are rules that already intervene on the supply and control of human cells and tissues. This is a measure that is uniting everyone and with respect to which the Government really wants to emphasize again, with favor, the importance of approval. As I have already said, it is a text that adapts the internal system to the predictions of conventional instruments, severely incriminating the trafficking of organs for living, through the harmonization of the new forecasts to the already existing cases relating to the trafficking of organs for corpses. It therefore enables the instruments of repression of particularly serious phenomena to be refined and the instrument of repression to be harmonised with that of the laws of other States, especially the European area, in order to make effective and effective the action to combat crimes from an increasingly transnational point of view. That is the common goal. This is what unites us and it seems to me that it unites us all, according to the interventions that have been carried out so far. The importance of approving this text as soon as possible is a requirement of all, including the Government. As far as Amendment 1,103 is concerned, then, we must decide whether we should verify it and deepen it by interlocating it with the Ministry of Health, or whether we should be inclined to withdraw it. In this second case, there would be the commitment of the Government to intervene again and quickly on this matter, supplementing and specifying better the existing legislative decree. If the amendment is withdrawn, I think that work can continue smoothly. If not, it will take time to deepen this point, because in the state, from the scientific point of view, even with respect to the concept of cell, we must define better and clarify to the interpreter and to the judge what we mean by this amendment. I would therefore like to put this matter back to you, but I would like to highlight the technical concerns that exist if the amendment were to remain in the current wording. I therefore suggest, for this amendment, either withdrawal or deepening, which would take some time to get the answers from the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u66	CASSON, Rapporteur. Mr President, I had expressly reserved the right to evaluate the opinions on the amendments tabled at the most appropriate stage from a procedural point of view. Moreover, some indications, which were also given by the representative of the Government, about the possibility of a postponement of the examination and conclusion with the vote of this bill require me to give an assessment only on this point. On Amendment 1,103, as I understand it, there was in itself an opinion contrary to the Government and I too would have given an opinion against it, pointing out that, among other things, there is a problem of eligibility, since it is a matter that is not related to the draft law (essentially cells). This matter is also different from that of the Council of Europe Convention of July 2013, which concerned exclusively the trafficking of organs or parts of organs, and not cells and tissues of human origin. Among other things, this matter - as the Undersecretary rightly pointed out - is dealt with by Legislative Decree No. 85 of 30 May 2012. Therefore, for this part, if the amendment were not to be declared inadmissible or not to be withdrawn, there would be an opinion against it. However, I do not think that any further postponement of the draft law can be required for its examination. On the content of the measure, the House basically agrees very broadly: once we reach a very broad consensus, think of postponing it further - it is not well known how long and why, and I add in a very untransparent way - it does not seem to me entirely appropriate to the needs. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, when we resume our work at the afternoon sitting, which will begin at 4.30 p.m., the stage will be opened for the presentation of the amendments and, in that meeting, there will be the possibility for those who have asked him to speak. We shall then proceed to the vote on the amendments, after the stage of illustration and expression of opinions by the rapporteur and the Government. Taking advantage of the pause of the work, there is the time and the way, even in the short way, to seek clarification and talks with the Government and the rapporteur. I would also like to say that the Presidency has received, and is being distributed, the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and its amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Let us now turn to the speeches on items not included on the agenda, given that at 1 p.m. there will be the Conference of Leaders and at 4.30 p.m., as already explained, resume work on this measure with the transition to consideration of the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u70	BENCINI (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, cows do muuu, but in Florence, and in Tuscany above all, they do Mukki. There are participants who work, who make useful, who play an important and strategic social role for their territory. There is one in particular, which has achieved the sixth consecutive useful budget, achieving an asset of primary importance such as milk. Through a careful management to the protection of the supply chain, it allows to produce where it is more difficult and expensive to do so, but also where to produce means to guard and protect rural areas, otherwise at risk of abandonment. Despite this, or perhaps for this very reason, it is a similar shareholder who risks being abandoned and sold to private individuals. This is the case of Mukki milk: 1,200 workers, 80 farms covering 55,000 hectares of Tuscan territory. Of the 60 million liters of milk working annually, it withdraws about 15 million from 29 Mugello stables. It is excellence, partly organic: the one that consumers pay more to the supermarket and that Mukki pays more to farmers. It is a premium that the farm pays for quality, a premium without which farmers would end up out of the market and risk having to close the stables. On 20 February, the deadline for sending proposals to Mukki to offer assumptions of corporate consolidation and evolution of social capital expired; all this following the desire expressed by some entities to sell their company shares. Despite the various and continuous assurances of the public partners who declare that the supply chain, staff and quality will be guaranteed, the future of Mukki remains uncertain, because there is no political will to define strategic the milk plant. If in the end Mukki will be a multinational, beyond the promises it can make during the acquisition phase, we cannot be sure that it will be willing to keep alive an expensive fabric of local farmers. In Mugello are at risk the production excellence, some hundreds of jobs, the abandonment of the fields and the hydrogeological stability of that territory. I add, therefore, my voice to that of those who ask the local authorities involved to carry out any action aimed at strengthening the protection of the short supply chain in Tuscany and quality agricultural productions, working to find solutions compatible with the safeguard and development of the reality of Mukki milk and enhancing the availability shown by employees and farmers to be involved in the corporate structure. I also appeal to our President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Renzi, who is well aware of this reality. I ask you to invite the City of Florence, as well as Fidi Toscana, not to give up their quotas. In addition, I invite him to declare this strategic sector for the Florentine and Tuscan territory, since he too, the tempore, as mayor of Florence had the opportunity to declare himself in favor of Mukki. [[Applause from Senator Mussini and Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u73	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to remind the House that on 26 February 2015, the 23rd anniversary of the massacre in Khojaly, a small town in Nagorno-Karabakh with a population of about 6,300, fell. In the night between 25 and 26 February 1992, Armenian militia forces attacked the city. People had to flee in the night, in the snow, with imaginable consequences. It was, in fact, genocide on the part of the Armenian militias and the ice also played its part. Khojaly was subsequently sacked, there were more than 600 dead, and about 1,300 captured victims suffered imprisonment, violence or even humiliation. Of these, 150 prisoners disappeared without even leaving a trace, to the point that the Human Rights Watch organization described the Khojaly massacre as the largest and most horrible of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan. For more than twenty years the Armenian armed forces have been occupying Nagorno-Karabakh and, besides this, the seven surrounding regions (about 20 percent of the Azerbaijani territory). Four UN Security Council resolutions in 1993 call for the withdrawal of the Armenian armed forces from all essentially ignored occupied Azerbaijani territories, as well as other documents and recommendations such as those of the Council of Europe, the European Union, the European Parliament, the OSCE and NATO. The last time is October 2013: it is a resolution of the European Parliament, which continues to recall the resolutions of the UN Security Council, in addition to the principles of the Minsk Group, convened to find a solution to this perennial conflict. We would humbly like Parliament and perhaps also the Italian Government to speak out against this situation and at least to take action to enforce the multiple resolutions, in order to find a peaceful solution, as well as to force the occupying military forces to follow international decisions, possibly also denouncing the political and military leaders responsible at the Hague Court for crimes against humanity. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-402.ana.u74	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.47 p.m.
