ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u3	The next item is questions and questions. The first question will be Question No 3-01748 on the criteria for granting public contributions to circus activities with animals. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u4	Madam President, I am referring to the question by which Senator De Petris, in lamenting the use of animals in circus shows, calls for a progressive reduction in contributions, now granted from the Single Fund for entertainment, for exhibitors who use animals in their shows. In this regard, I would like to remind you that circus and travelling entertainment activity is one of the areas in which the Single Fund for entertainment is divided annually, which today is the only and only source of public support by the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism for these activities. Public funding to the sector has its legal basis in Law No 337 of 1968, "Provisions on equestrian circuses and travelling entertainment," which states that the State recognizes the social function of equestrian circuses and travelling entertainment. It therefore supports the consolidation and development of the sector. In order to implement these aims, this law provided for the establishment of a list of spectacular activities, entertainment and attractions subject to a decree signed by the Director-General of the Show and the Director-General of Public Security of the Ministry of the Interior. The above list of attractions includes, in section IV, equestrian and gymnastic circuses with the following description: Mobile equipment consisting mainly of a tent of different sizes, supported by central poles under which is placed a track on which perform artists, clowns, gymnasts, acrobats, animals. The audience attending is usually located around the runway. The appropriations that the FUS devotes every year to circus activities and travelling entertainment are further distributed in the sub-sectors of the production and dissemination of circus shows in Italy and abroad, in support of the traveling show through contributions for the purchase of new attractions, for restoration of installations damaged by fortuitous events, for the structuring of areas destined for the aforementioned activities and finally for promotional initiatives and circus festivals. In order to make the allocation of the various appropriations clearer, I will hand over to the Offices an annex containing the annual breakdown by sub-sectors of activity, as ordered by the relevant advisory committees, from which the amount of FUS resources allocated to circus activity alone is derived over the last five years. In particular, it is specified that in 2015 the appropriation for all circus activities and travelling entertainment amounts to €4,468.519. Compared to the picture just described, the administration over the last two years has intervened to re-determine the criteria for the provision of contributions to the live show by Decree Law No 91 of August 8, 2013, converted by Law No 113 of October 7, 2013, and, with reference to the circus activity, has foreseen that the new legislation could allocate gradual incentives in favour of operators of circus activities and travelling shows without animals, as well as exhibitors of contemporary circus, within the resources assigned to them. The Ministerial Decree of 1 July 2014 adopted new criteria for the provision and modalities for the liquidation and anticipation of contributions to live entertainment, based on the FUS, which, among the phenomena to be observed as indicators of artistic quality, provide: production, programming and promotion of circus activities without animals, in the framework of innovation and the redevelopment of the offer. In addition, in order to contribute indirectly to the protection of animals, if a circus operator decides not to use them in its activity, the decree provides that the application for contribution is accompanied by appropriate certification by the Forestry Police Corps concerning the admission of the animals to approved facilities. The choice of no longer carrying out activities with animals remains, it is true, discretionary, but is encouraged as a quality indicator. As a primary condition of eligibility for contributions, the absence of definitive convictions for the crimes referred to in Title IX- bis of Book II of the Criminal Code and of not having committed any other violation of state and European Union legislation on the protection, possession and use of animals is hereby confirmed by a declaration made pursuant to Article 46 of the Decree of the President of the Republic No. 445 of 2000. In order to verify the existence of this assumption, the offices in charge of the Directorate-General for Live Performing Arts carry out regular checks at the judicial records on any final convictions for the offences of animal abuse, precisely as a cause of inadmissibility and withdrawal of contributions. These checks shall be carried out both before the allocations, during the evaluation of applications for assistance, and thereafter, before the allocation of contributions. Where the administration finds, by means of a certificate requested from the register, the presence of a conviction passed in court for ill-treatment of animals, the application for a contribution is rejected because it is inadmissible or the contribution itself is withdrawn, if previously granted, if the acquisition of such information took place during the subsequent check, but in any case prior to the delivery. Given the current legislation, it is stated that the administration has no other means to exercise its supervision over the correct application of the discipline. In addition, inadmissibility or revocation may be applied only in the event of a final conviction on the part of the legal representative of the circus company who has submitted a request for assistance and who, if a rehabilitation order is brought in, may submit subsequent applications for assistance. With regard to the specific questions raised in the question, this administration is aware of the relevant facts in the process of its own competence and maintains contacts with other administrations, such as the Ministry of the Environment, the CITES Scientific Commission and local administrations involved in individual issues. Given the current regulatory landscape, it is not possible to exclude a priori public funding from those who exercise their entertainment activities with the use of animals. The 2015-2017 three-year period, of first application of the above mentioned ministerial decree 1 July 2014, can be a test with respect to the guidelines that circus operators will want to undertake on the use of the animals, following an explicit indicator of quality relative to the circus without animals, subject of course to the sanctions previewed regarding the eligibility and renderability of the contributions, in case of definitive convictions. This Administration knows the agenda G9.205 of 2013, approved by both the Senate and the Chamber, and agrees that the parliamentary act transposes and collects increasingly widespread and shared sensibilities. Of these the Ministry has intended to take into account in the new criteria for the provision of contributions contained in the Ministerial Decree 1 July 2014, although in compliance with the legislation in force that does not allow the exclusion of circuses and travelling shows with animals from the number of recipients of the contributions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u7	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I am not satisfied with the answer given for a number of reasons. Meanwhile, in the question we referred to a series of very specific facts: we asked, first of all, if the Ministry were aware of the facts exposed and also of the lack of coordination and communication in the context of the procedures for assigning contributions between various administrations, which involved, in concrete terms, the provision of contributions to circuses and other travelling entertainment associations that had been condemned for the crime of ill-treatment of animals. I have highlighted specific examples on which I did not have an adequate response. I would therefore like to know whether it is not appropriate to put in place a number of procedures to ensure that there is effective control, so that public resources do not go to people and societies who have committed the crime of animal abuse. In addition, I would like to know whether, in the face of fraudulent behaviour (as is shown in the cases set out in the question, where it is clear that there has been a false self-certification), it is not considered that a verification procedure should be put in place and, therefore, that the resources which had been wrongly collected should also be recovered. On this - alas - I did not have an answer. I believe it is essential that coordination procedures be put in place between different administrations, also to ensure that public resources are not given to associations, societies and people who have been convicted of mistreatment. In the question I make explicit reference to an agenda, which was approved - as the Undersecretary knows - on 24 September 2013, in connection precisely with the conversion of Decree-Law of 8 August 2013, No. 91, with which the Government explicitly commits itself (it does not only assess the opportunity) to a progressive reduction of contributions to circuses that use animals, precisely because today it is necessary to verify how the new legislation can be applied and what criteria can be actually and concretely used. I think it is absolutely necessary, precisely within the framework of the 2015-2017 strategy, to put in place what the Senate Assembly has given as an indication to the Government itself, namely a progressive reduction of funding to this sector. This can be done not only on the basis of a voluntary act, which is an incentive for those who do not use animals, but on the basis of a reduction as clearly provided for in the G9.205 agenda. This is in itself an incentive to ensure that, among other things, circus structures that do not use animals are rewarded and have indeed made this an element of excellence in the artistic field. The aim of the award is precisely to ensure that there is a progressive reduction.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u8	There follows the questioning 2-00243, by abbreviated procedure, pursuant to Rule 156- bis of the Regulation, on the protection of the right to transport of persons with disabilities. I call Senator Favero to explain this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u9	Madam President, I thank Mr Undersecretary for being here. Before explaining the questioning, however, I would like to make an inscription. It's a little bizarre that you respond to an interrogation with such long times. Thank you for your reply, but I would remind you that Rule 156-a of the Rules of Procedure requires that the questions be put to the agenda within 15 days of the presentation. My colleague, Mr Manconi, has recently pointed out this issue and has provided a series of data showing that on average the answer is about one hundred and twenty-seven days: so I return to this average abundantly since the questioning was filed on 4 February. I would like to start by briefly illustrating the questioning. With regard to the rights of people with disabilities, as part of the Europe 2020 strategy, the Lisbon Treaty has drawn up the Disability Strategy to strengthen the participation of people with disabilities in society, the economy and to improve the full exercise of their rights. Eight areas of joint action have been outlined in order to promote this inclusion. These include mobility and train journeys, including regional connections, as far as the competence of each region is concerned, which are governed by Regulation No 137 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on the rights and obligations of passengers in rail transport. That Regulation lays down a set of fundamental rights for passengers, and in particular Article 21 on accessibility, provides that railway undertakings and station operators shall ensure for persons with reduced mobility, through compliance with technical specifications for interoperability, accessibility of stations, docks, rolling stock and other services to persons with disabilities or with reduced mobility. In addition, in the absence of accompanying staff on board a train or staff at a station, railway undertakings and station operators shall make all reasonable efforts to enable disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility to have access to rail transport. There is also a European regulation, transposed by Legislative Decree No. 70 of 2014, which provides for a series of sanctions for non-compliance with obligations to protect the right of transport of persons with disabilities and with reduced mobility. I come from the territory of Biella that at this moment is affected, like many others, by a crisis that has pushed him to have a widespread commuting, due both to students who attend universities outside the area (they move to not affect the budget already reduced as the housing in the university cities are quite expensive) and to commuters. Moreover, jobs are located where there is work and therefore there is a significant increase in travel. Within the company Centostationi 7 million euros were invested by RFI and Regione Piemonte to modernize and then arrange the station São Paulo with all the characteristics related to the extension of the sidewalks and the construction of an underpass. It happened that they had to be installed elevators, but it hasn't been done for years. Moreover, there were also difficulties in the accessibility of bathrooms, which had been renovated, but not sufficiently suitable for disabled people, and accessibility to sidewalks was also not so easy. I have therefore presented the questioning that we are carrying out precisely to recall the need to follow up the investment, since it was really important for a station not so large, with only three tracks, and since there were already rooms for the elevator. Fortunately, RFI has met and the situation has been defined, because on 21 May the three lifts were officially inaugurated, in the presence of the mayor, which are therefore used by people with reduced mobility and the disabled. This plant, built by RFI with a strong investment, has cut down the architectural barriers, improving the accessibility of the station where it is already guaranteed free assistance to people with reduced mobility. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u10	Madam President, the importance of providing adequate services to people with disabilities and the elderly is certainly a fundamental obligation for a country that wants to fully implement the rights of people with reduced mobility. In this sense, the Italian Railway Network (RFI) is implementing a program of progressive reduction of the existing architectural barriers in the railway infrastructure, with costly and complex realizations. The works are carried out with the available economic resources and taking into account both the standards laid down in national legislation and the new guidelines laid down in European regulations no. 1371 of 2007 and 1300 of 2014 as regards persons with reduced mobility. In this context, in view of the growing attendance rates observed over the years and represented by the same associations from Biella, the station of Biella San Paolo, inserted in the network of the company Centostationi, which cares for RFI management aspects, has been affected by a complete restyling that has allowed to restructure the premises of the traveler building, the pavements, the shelters and the sanitary facilities, as well as the new apparatuses for the management of the circulation and the information to the public. For the new pavements built, account had to be taken of the structural constraints and the conformation of the system as a whole, and more precisely of the characteristics of the railway track, which has sometimes allowed certain measures to be exceeded. This caused the fact that the flight of stairs present on the first sidewalk has a width, net of the footprint of the two handrails, of about 240 cm, while the ramps of stairs present on the second and third sidewalks have a width, always net of the footprint of the two handrails, of about 135 cm, that is, little more than 2 modules. It is true, therefore, that the minimum width of 160 cm is not respected for the obstacle-free route, but the reduced size is due to the limited width of the station sidewalks. With regard to toilets, RFI communicates that they are currently accessible and that each block (male and female) has two services, one of which is equipped for people with disabilities. As far as lifts are concerned, I inform you that they have been tested and that usability has taken place since 21 May. With regard to Senator Favero's initial solicitation, I will see to it that these delays are gradually reduced.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u13	FAVERO (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for the timely reply and for the data she has provided, which supports what emerges from my research and also from what has been said by all those who are really doing their utmost at the moment, because that is an indispensable service at this time because my territory has a very considerable suffering in connection with it. Although it is a capital, we do not have a direct connection with a motorway, and the railway network, in my opinion, must be absolutely strengthened. Therefore, making accessibility better means giving an answer to a right, but I would say that it is a duty of the community to improve life for those who, however, have problems. I therefore appreciate what you have said to us, Undersecretary, and I would like to remind you - I am addressing you because of your sensitivity, but also because of the Government - that we must not stop at all on this front because there are still major problems relating to the transport of people with disabilities. I am referring, for example, to long-distance trains, regional trains, which do not always provide easy access to people with disabilities or where, in any case, the seat in the wagons is not as accessible as it can be on the Frecciarossa, Frecciabianca and Frecciargento trains. Ours must, therefore, be an effort to ensure that everyone is given the opportunity to travel. In this respect, I believe that Italy absolutely must show the sensitivity that we all display every day, even in this House, with regard to such problems.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u14	Following is the question 3-01569, on the strengthening of the railway connection between Milan and the airport of Malpensa The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u15	Pursuant to Article 9 of Legislative Decree No 422 of 1997, the functions and tasks of administration and programming of regional rail services are the responsibility of the Regions. The company Trenord announces that the Malpensa express service on Busto Arsizio provided for a total number of 130 races in winter, with 79 stops in Busto Arsizio. Starting from the change of timetable of 26 April 2015, the races between Milan and Malpensa have been increased to 147, with a more than proportional increase of the total stops in Busto Arsizio, which are now 83. It should be noted that the races with terminus to Cadorna remain altogether unchanged, while an increase of the races with terminus to Milano Centrale is expected. With regard to the connections between Cadorna and Busto Arsizio, compared to the proposed total abolition, it has been guaranteed the maintenance of the stop for 20 percent of the races between Cadorna and the airport. In detail: the routes from Cadorna to the airport did not vary in the number, remaining altogether 39 (of which 7 for Busto Arsizio), while the connections from Milano Centrale to the airport increased from 26 to 34 (all with stop at Busto Arsizio); the connections from the airport to Cadorna remained 40 (of which 8 for Busto Arsizio), while all the 34 routes provided by the airport to Milano Centrale stop at Busto Arsizio. The company Trenord also points out that in the connections between Busto Arsizio and Milano Cadorna are safeguarded the peak hours of the morning (6.35, 7.35 and 8.35) and the return times (17.57, 18.57 and 19.57) and also, since last April 26, numerous stops were reintroduced early in the morning and after 21 to meet the needs of the shiftworkers of Malpensa. Finally, in order to further improve the railway offer towards workers and students commuters, it is planned to create a monitoring table between the technicians of the regional council and the technicians of Trenord.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u18	D'ADDA (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Barracciu, but a number of issues need to be clarified, because the answers from Mr Trenord do not satisfy me. Meanwhile the situation has changed, compared to the moment when I submitted the question, because starting from 26 April this year all the stops between Malpensa, Busto Arsizio and Milano Cadorna have been removed and two have been reintroduced, one in the morning and one in the afternoon, for commuters. I would like the Undersecretary to bear this in mind: we are talking about a service that affects a productive fabric and a conurbation of about 300,000 inhabitants and that the Malpensa-Busto Arsizio-Milano Cadorna line is used daily by thousands of commuters from the Northwest of Lombardy, as the service is faster than the regional terni. Also take into account the fact that those who have always taken this train and who have seen themselves cut the rides paid a price from first and not from second class, to have a higher speed and enter directly in the central area of Milan. In essence, Milan Cadorna station is the gateway that allows you to enter the metropolitan city from the Northwest of Lombardy. Given the high number of commuters who regularly use these trains on a day-to-day basis, it happens that the reduction in racing has led to congestion. I can assure you that even on social media every day and several times a day photographs are published depicting this situation that the regional councillors themselves and the President of the Commission know, having travelled on these trains: congestion is such that often passengers remain standing and many even have to stay on the ground. This happened, because it had invested in this link in the previous fifteen years, with the use of public money of EUR 500 million. With the technical table between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the Lombardy Region has moved the thought of strengthening the infrastructural development linked to the airport of Malpensa on the station of Milano Centrale and the station of Porta Garibaldi, passing then to the central station of Busto Arsizio. This situation continues to see the presence of a discomfort for commuting workers. Among other things, I note that the train passes from the station, but does not stop: therefore these gentlemen are seen passing in front of the train, which does not stop that minute and a half necessary to load the people. The commuters are asking for at least a greater increase in the number of journeys at peak times, not enough for the two trains that have now been planned. Among other things, the suppression was experimental, then the number of trains was increased to two, because it was realized, thanks to the collection of signatures, that the number of those concerned was such that it could not have been overtaken by the citizens' request. These citizens therefore see themselves passing by the train, which does not stop for a minute to load the passengers. So I think it's quite disconcerting to have loaded trains like freight trains, with people who can't even get on and have to wait for other trains to pass, when it's enough to stop trains passing through the station without stopping. In this regard, studies have been carried out by the same citizens, recognized also by the Lombardy Region and the Commission transports, who have verified that, if commuters had to opt for the solutions proposed by the Region and the technical table, it would take an infinitely larger time to reach the job, with three, four or five different public transports to take, both due to the changes of train and the metro and the buses to take in Milan. It therefore seems to us an absolutely paradoxical situation: it is not that the trains are not there, but they arrive, they whirl in front of the people who are waiting and they do not stop anymore. I therefore call on the Secretary-General, in his courtesy, to point out this situation and to intervene on the technical table. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite you to conclude, Senator D'Adda. D'ADDA (PD). Objectively, I believe that these citizens are right. A substantial change of strategy of this type cannot go against 10,000 workers that every day have always been able to enjoy, paying it very well to the Region and Ferrovie Nord Milano, a service that now is not even second class, but is third class, and that leaves them on the ground.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u19	There follows the question 2-00276, by abbreviated procedure, pursuant to Rule 156- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on an episode of gender discrimination against an Italian citizen in Hungary. I call Senator Lo Giudice to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u20	Madam President, I would like to begin by thanking the Undersecretary Della Vedova for having come to answer this question and, more generally, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for being the Ministry which more often and more quickly responds to the questions and questions of the Members of Parliament, in the face of a situation that is now unmanageable, Madam President, of very little percentage of acts of inspection union that receive a response from the Government. As far as I am concerned, my experience corresponds to the one mentioned earlier with reference to the document produced by Senator Manconi, which shows that only 20% of the questions are answered; the percentage of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is 60% and the answers are given in a few weeks. This also corresponds to my experience and therefore I am grateful to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Undersecretary Della Vedova for having come in a few days to respond to an urgent questioning, signed by 33 Senators of the Democratic Party and presented on June 3, therefore only a few weeks ago. Today, newspapers across Europe have reported a rather disturbing story that is happening in the heart of Europe. I am referring to the construction of a new wall, a fence about 150 kilometres long, on the border between Hungary and Serbia, to prevent a wave of refugees from countries in economic crisis or political crisis from reaching Hungary through Serbia. The latter is, from the point of view of democracy and the recognition of human rights, the great sick person in Europe. It is a country that, following a real white coup moved by Prime Minister Orbán, has radically modified its Constitution, making it strongly anti-democratic and liberticidal on several fronts. One of these is civil rights and in particular the rights of homosexuals. A report by the Council of Europe's Human Rights Commissioner published a few months ago, in December 2014, expressed concern about the climate of hostility towards LGBT people (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender), which in some cases resulted in speeches and hate crimes targeted at them, hate crimes that often have an institutional matrix. In particular, an ally of Orbán, the extreme right-wing party Jobbik, xenophobic, anti-Semitic and homophobic, with a 12% consensus, has been responsible for various intimidation actions against homosexuals. The story on which we are asking the Government today for an answer and which we have put to the attention of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs concerns an Italian citizen. He is a Ligurian boy who lives in Hungary, Budapest, and who, for having participated last year in the gay pride of Budapest, a demonstration that over time has been strongly and violently opposed by nationalist groups, with a satirical cart against him promoted by an organization of the extreme right (the organization of nationalist motorcyclists), has been the target of heavy threats by the leader of that organization, who is not just any person, but is a former leader of the far right party Jobbik and a former parliamentarians. The latter threatened death on several occasions and publicly Andrea Giuliano. This is the boy's name; I quietly say name and surname, because his story became public and he himself decided to put his testimony at the disposal of the fight against homophobia in Hungary. It was even put a size of 10,000 euros on this boy's head. He was forced several times to change his home and denounced his persecutors. In turn, he was denounced by the organization, thus finding himself in a situation of even greater anxiety. We know that the judicial process has recently ended in conciliation. We have asked and asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs if it is aware of this affair that concerns one of our compatriots; if it does not intend to provide assistance to the young Italian so badly affected in his own life, in his own serenity and in his own safety; if and how the Government intends to intervene in favour of this fellow country of ours so that he can live in a European country with a condition of serene, free and dignified life, protected by the manifestations of homophobia, which are akin to persecution. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u21	Madam President, first of all, I would like to assure you that from the outset, Farnesina has followed closely and with the greatest commitment the affair involving our fellow-countryman A.G. In the written answer to the question, of which I am reading, only the initials of the name are indicated, because initially there were only these in the question. However, as the Senator has just said, we are talking about Andrea Giuliano, a victim in Budapest, of unacceptable insults and intimidation by far-right militants following his participation in last year's Gay pride festival. This is a demonstration on which - I would like to stress this - our embassy in Budapest had taken a position of support for its members and their freedom of expression. For several months, Mr. Giuliano, also at the suggestion of his lawyer and the association of defense of the rights of the LGBTI people, with whom he is in contact, opted for the utmost discretion, in order to avoid the escalation of the conflict situation in which he was involved. He also decided, initially, not to activate our diplomatic representation, although he was aware of the position taken by the Italian embassy in Hungary, as I said, in support of the freedom of expression of the members of the Gay pride. However, the delicacy of the situation led the ambassador to Budapest, Maria Assunta Accili, to suggest to Mr. Giuliano the hypothesis of intervention for his protection. Ambassador Accili then met our fellow countryman, along with his lawyer, agreeing some lines of intervention. As regards the complaint for defamation against the compatriot, the embassy sent its own observer to the preliminary hearing on 10 June last, which was intended to engage in an attempt at conciliation between the parties and which ended with the dismissal of the case, following the agreement between the parties, as recalled by Senator Lo Giudice. As regards the complaint lodged by the compatriot in relation to attempts at physical aggression and the insults suffered, the lawyer will write to the Public Prosecutor's Office, urging a rapid handling of the complaint. Where there is no response by the end of June, our diplomatic representation will not fail to make contact with the Public Prosecutor to ask for news of his progress. I would like to assure you that the Farnesina will continue to monitor closely and with the utmost care the development of the affair, with the aim of ensuring, in close liaison with the same countryman and his lawyer, the full protection of his rights. More generally, I would like to highlight Italy's strong commitment to support the principle of non-discrimination and to condemn executions, arbitrary arrests and violations of human rights on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. It is a commitment that takes place both bilaterally, through awareness-raising actions, and multilaterally, through adherence to declarations and resolutions and participation in initiatives to combat discrimination and raise awareness of the respect of LGBTL rights. In this regard, I would like to mention a recent resolution on human rights, sexual orientation and gender identity adopted, including with the support of Italy, in September 2014 by the UN Human Rights Council and which, among other things, gives the mandate to the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights to prepare a summary on good practice for the protection of LGBTI rights. I would also like to point out that Italy has also joined a joint declaration on violence and discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, which some countries from different regional groups are promoting at the current session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva. The text will be read before the Human Rights Council on 29 June and, among other things, calls on all Member States to take concrete measures to put an end to acts of violence, discrimination and human rights violations committed on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. These are just a few examples of how our Government will continue to be convinced that the fight against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity will continue in every appropriate forum.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u24	THE COURT (PD). Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Della Vedova for his reply, which has confirmed, as has happened before, a commitment by Mr Farnesina to protect our fellow citizens whose safety is at risk because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. We know that Italy outside national borders and in international European fora is playing and continues to play an important role in supporting and promoting the rights of LGBTI people. Unfortunately, this happens much less within national borders, because I remember that in our country we have neither a law against homophobia nor a law for the recognition of the rights of same-sex couples. But this is not a responsibility of the Farnesina, so it is an issue that we will address in other forums.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u25	Following is the question 3-00821, on the maintenance of the seat of the judge of peace of San Vito dei Normanni, in the province of Brindisi. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u26	Madam President, Senator Zizza, in pointing out the planned abolition of the San Vito dei Normanni peace judge's office, calls for ministerial initiatives aimed at obtaining a rewording of the deadlines for the proposition of the application for the burden and the costs of maintaining the seats of the judge of peace by the municipalities concerned. Well, as certainly known to the same questioner, the work of territorial rationalization undertaken by Legislative Decree No. 155 of 2012 involved, among other things, the extinction of the detachable joints of the court, focusing at the offices absorbing the functions and staff, judicial and administrative, already in service in the offices absorbed. In the context of the extensive plan to revise the judicial geography, the office of the judge of peace of San Vito dei Normanni, not falling among the offices maintained with charges to the local authorities previewed from the ministerial decree of 7 March 2014, pursuant to article 3 of the legislative decree n. 156 of 2012, turns out therefore to have been abolished with effect from 29 April 2014, with relative competence assigned to the center of Brindisi. Moreover, having now completed the six-monthly term referred to in article 5, paragraph 2, of legislative decree no. 156 of 2012, within which at the judicial garrison of San Vito dei Normanni have been able to continue to carry out exclusively the hearings previously established with a possible postponement to the merging headquarters of Brindisi, to date is now ceased any remaining judicial activity near the said center. This place, with reference to the possibility to reopen the terms for the proposition of the instance for the assumption of the burdens relative to the reopening and the maintenance of the center in question, I note that the law 27 February 2015, n. 11 (published in the Official Gazette n. 49 of 28 February 2015) has converted with modifications the decree law 31 December 2014, n. 192, bearing "prorogation of terms previewed from legislative dispositions," introducing to article 2 the paragraph 1-a, that allows the local authorities concerned, the unions of municipalities, as well as the mountain communities to request by 30 July 2015 the restoration of the offices of the judge of peace suppressed and therefore also of the garrison of San Vito dei Normanni. Within this period, applications may therefore be made for the restoration of the suppressed garrison of San Vito, provided that the Municipality concerned takes charge of the costs of operating and providing the service of justice, including the need for administrative staff, which must be made available by the same body. In this regard, I note that the instructions for the restoration of the offices of the judge of peace deleted contained in circular 12 May 2015 and the other acts of interest related to the same procedure can be found on the home page of the online website of the Ministry of Justice, through the banner dedicated to the restoration of the offices of the judge of peace.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u29	ZIZZA (CRI). Madam President, the question was dated 18 March 2014. It's been 15 months to get an answer. It should be noted, however, that it was useful, together with other questions, to urge the Government to intervene with a rule that could give these municipalities the possibility of reopening the game. It will be my care to inform the mayors of the area the possibility of joining, through that rule, the reopening of the same with the payment of the relative expenses to them. Of course, the bitterness of waiting fifteen months for an answer remains. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The questioning and questioning of the agenda is thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u30	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-18-LEG17-Senato-sed-469.ana.u31	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 23 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.51 a.m.
