ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 18 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u3	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 1429-B, which was first approved by the Senate and first amended by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u6	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business, precisely because it does not actually pass with the silence of the House a quota of time on the debate on constitutional reform. I would remind you that at the Conference of the Leaders it was agreed that Tuesday and Wednesday's days would be devoted to the general discussion, without the closing hours of the sessions. At this moment we have learned of the resignation of Senator Maturani; personally, having already spoken on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, if I have ten minutes at my disposal, I shall give up my speech and reserve the right to debate more when considering the amendments. The quota (ready, go!) which sets ten minutes before Senator Caliendo, since this is a constitutional reform of this scale, frankly it seems premature and reductive compared to the debate we are holding. It is right that the debate should also take place here and it is impossible, as has happened, for the debate to take place in via del Nazareno, in the directions of the PD. That is unacceptable, Mr President. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]] As well as unacceptable are the accusations or, better, the pressures and almost the blackmails that have been directed against his person. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Senators Bignami, Campanella and Malan Groups.]] I apologise for others and am close to them at this time, because they are unfair, undemocratic and not respectful of the present Constitution. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u9	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, I should like to ask you, in view of my personal urgency, to have everyone speak for 20 minutes. I really do feel the need to say a few things in this House and, given the seriousness and delicacy of what we are discussing, I would ask you to reconsider and possibly "give us" one more day for our democracy, for the protection of our democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u12	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I continue to be more and more perplexed at the way we are proceeding. Since there is a rumor that the Minister would have already decided to do her replica on Thursday (this is what they say), then we settle everything, including her agenda, to ensure that on Thursday morning the Minister can carry out her replica. Mr President, you will recall that at the meeting of the Conference of Leaders, the only date set was to conclude the examination of the measure, scheduled for an earlier date than the beginning of the budgetary session, before 15 October. However, we have reached the decision on harmonization, i.e. quotas, even before the deadline for tabling amendments which, as you know, are due to expire tomorrow morning. So, frankly, I think that deciding half-time at this point in today's day is frankly absurd. We could have worked yesterday, in such a way that the interesting debate within the Democratic Party and also the veiled discussions on who should convene the Assembly of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate would take place in this House, which is the only seat of its own. [[Applause from Senators Bulgarelli and Taverna.]] Mr President, you certainly have the opportunity to harmonise the timetable, but I would remind you that the only date we discussed at the meeting of the Conference of Leaders was that of the conclusion of the measure before 15 October and that, Mr President, we usually arrive at the harmonisation or quota of the time when we have seen not only the amendments but also the urgent measures, which were obviously not, given what happened with regard to the framework law on international missions. Frankly, Mr President, I would ask you to reconsider this, because I believe that in a debate on constitutional reform, which may or may not be exciting (to many people who are not passionate), quotas are absolutely inappropriate and this did not happen even during the first reading. We too have the right to discuss, perhaps even the mediation proposal that emerged at yesterday's meeting of the Democratic Party leadership, and I believe that, to that end, ten minutes for each intervention is absolutely not enough.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u15	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, on behalf of my fellow Members of the Group, even more so in the light of your last words, I would like to express our closeness and solidarity with the level and ferocity of the threats to which you referred yesterday. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rizzotti. Protests from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u16	Senator Mauro, I remind you that we are intervening on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u17	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, it is even more painful when threats take effect. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] , see the feedback that is being given in this House to something really incredible. Indeed, at a time when there are people who, in this debate, are proud to have found solutions, the Presidency could and should call on them to do their best and do their utmost to ensure that the solutions are focused. In this sense, I also invite you to reconsider, if possible, these decisions of yours, because I believe that at this moment, perhaps more than a time from running horses, there is a need for the thoughtfulness and the ability of analysis necessary to produce a final solution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u20	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I too hope that the areas of discussion and examination of this extremely important measure will be as wide and as appropriate as possible to its importance, both in the general debate and in the examination of the amendments, which will have to be tabled by tomorrow. Secondly, Mr President, I would like to express my solidarity with the undue and unprecedented pressure which you (your person and office) have been subjected to by those who do not have the competence to do so, to the extent that you have then taken back the very clear words that the videos have recorded. Therefore, I express full solidarity with you for your role and for the conduct that you wish to give to the debate, respectful of the rules and prerogatives of all Members, of the majority and of the opposition. Thirdly - and I address the only representative of the Government present as such, who, in fact, has not studied the matter, it is normal for him not to listen - I would like, not so much for us, but for the dignity of the Government, to have the Executive represented in the Chamber by those who followed this measure, namely Minister Boschi and not by the authoritative Undersecretary for Education, who does not listen. In my opinion, it would be a minimum demonstration of respect, given the importance of the measure, for the general discussion, which sees the speech of both representatives of the various oppositions and representatives of the majority, including members of the party most represented in the Government. It is true that the Council of Ministers is in progress, but the Council of Ministers can very well meet at other times. It is not only the Senate that has to do day and night; the Government can do so too: its twelve minutes or two hours of the Council of Ministers can do so at times compatible with the participation of Minister Boschi or the President of the Council, who cares so much about this reform, about our work. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u23	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I would simply like to thank you for this title (Senator Castaldi shows the first page of the Daily Fact) which, at least, distances itself from the threats that yesterday, veiled - or perhaps not veiled - received. Thank you for saying that you weren't even afraid of the Mafia, so I guess you're not afraid of this President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Now, Mr President, you reduce the speeches to ten minutes, but we will still come to the conclusion of the debate in due course with speeches of twenty minutes; of course we will discuss until 4 or 5 a.m., but what is the problem? In so doing, we show instead that the general debate in this House is a fiction. Then in here we all know that in fact it is a fiction, because no one has the courage to change their mind after listening to the various speeches, as it should be. Therefore, I would ask you to reconsider your position this morning, because the time to conclude as we had already decided in the group leader is there. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u26	TONINI (PD). Mr President, we share your position. I believe it is in the eyes of all that the time taken by the Conference of Leaders has been appropriate. [[Senator Airola's laughter]] It is true that in the two days we have already had a general discussion, the sessions were concluded in advance because only the senators of the Democratic Party and, to be honest, some senators of a part of the opposition intervened, almost in solitude. [[Comments from the M5S Group and Senator Volpi.]] Other groups intended to allow time to flow unnecessarily. So I think it is reasonable to conclude this procedural phase by tomorrow night. VOLPI (LN-Aut). Sold! Montevecchi (M5S). But how dare you say that? (Returned to Senator Tonini). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Quiet, please. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Senator Airola, please. Anything I could have imagined this morning except that a decision, which is the result of presidential prerogatives, could even be interpreted as giving in to any pressure. ENDRIZZI (M5S). No!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u27	As Senator Mario Mauro insinuated this, I reply on this point: I do not allow you to think or suspect such a thing. [[Applause from the PD Group]] First of all, I would remind you that 110 members in general discussion for twenty minutes each make 33 hours and 45 minutes. [[Comments by Senators Martelli and Marton.]] Unfortunately, the President must also be an accountant, and therefore take stock of it, in order to harmonise, in accordance with Rule 84 of the Rules of Procedure, the progress of the debate with the timetable that was adopted at the Conference of the Leaders and voted in this House. The end of the general debate was set on Wednesday evening without the end of the sitting, but even without that closing time on Wednesday it ends at 24, so, after all, it is not possible to give everyone twenty minutes. Of course, this decision is absolutely preventive, because if there were any cancellations from the speeches, the timing would be much longer. So this is a way of saying be careful: anyone who wants can go beyond ten minutes, if someone cancels or limits himself because he does not need all twenty minutes. That was the point of my speech. Arrived at midnight on Wednesday, I don't want to have to stop talking to any members. The point is that and that's all, so mine is not a stand, because I didn't take a stand. I am trying to apply the Rules of Procedure, which require me to harmonize, pursuant to Rule 84. I'm gonna start with this. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] After that, normally, you count the speaking time, with twenty minutes for each entry the result is what I told you. I therefore believe that these times can be increased, and in any case granted with a certain width compared to the term fiscally interpreted as ten minutes, if there are beginning to be self-ductions of the intervention times. This was just a warning to say that, with the deadline set by the Conference by the Heads of Groups and approved by the vote of the Assembly, at midnight on Wednesday, there is a risk that someone will not speak. That's all it is. I want everyone to talk and as much as possible, that must be absolutely clear. I am here for this, but with 20 minutes of intervention, I can't help but say, with a forecast and a precaution, to be careful of the times. I believe that this issue is closed in this respect. AIROLA (M5S). He just said ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u30	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, certainly if you think that the matter is closed it is and there is little to do because it is your prerogative, but the further explanations and reasons you have given do not stand up. I would like to point out to you that the 5 Star Movement will begin today; therefore, unlike what it has been in the previous days, when all our other colleagues have had the opportunity to speak for the twenty minutes provided for by the Rules of Procedure. [[Comments of Senator Cardinals]] , you have applied the so-called leghold trap to us (because it is called that): so you have applied the leghold trap to constitutional reforms, preventing us from speaking even at 4 o'clock in the morning. In fact, I don't know what kind of calculations and accountants you are, certainly not excellent.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u31	I would ask you to limit your remarks to facts, because you obviously cannot make the accounts.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u32	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am telling you that you have probably made some miscalculations in counting the hours available. That's all I'm telling you, and that's all. Don't take it as an offense, because you didn't want to be, and I apologize if you considered it to be such. There's probably a chance. I could have understood this position perhaps tomorrow afternoon: having considered all the possible waivers and the time remaining available, I could have understood a quota of the times, but not today. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So I should have favored those who sign up first. SANTANGELO (M5S). He's already done it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But I remember that the entries for the debate are made within the terms of the Rules of Procedure. SANTANGELO (M5S). And that's what we did. Yesterday afternoon we communicated the list of members to talk about our Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Just yesterday. SANTANGELO (M5S). Not just yesterday. We have, however, done so within the time limits laid down in the Rules of Procedure. This is certainly a decision within your competence, Mr President, but I take note of the fact that you have applied the trap to some of the Groups and that the 5 Star Movement will therefore speak 50% of the time compared to all the others. To you, Mr President, the decision. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u35	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to make a proposal. You can give 20 minutes each, because the majority, applauding Senator Tonini, has already said that ten minutes are enough for them. So, giving each senator freedom to choose, and knowing that more than half will speak for ten minutes, I think we'll be back in time. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u38	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, you have already declared the matter closed, but I take advantage of this moment and of your point of order to remind you, once again, of a further point of order. You took note of my call last week to urgently convene the Permanent Commissions for the renewal of the Presidency Offices. I greatly appreciate the fact that you said just now that you are forced to apply the Rules of Procedure and what is commonly called a leghold trap, but that you have defined the harmonisation of time. I will remind you, and whoever is in the presidency every day, that the same urgent point of order is that the Commissions, after two years of operation, must see the bodies that chair them renewed. This is precisely because no accountant reasoning or practice must be admissible, which the President of the Council and his emissaries are pursuing to make it an exchange commodity on constitutional reforms. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u39	Senator Petrocelli, your Parent Company will certainly have informed you that the same call was made, in the Conference of the Leaders, precisely in this respect. Senator Castaldi is my witness.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u42	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, as far as the President of my Group is concerned, it seems that, at the Conference of the Leaders, the decision was taken, at the request of the opposition, to close the general debate (which was initially scheduled for Tuesday) on Wednesday, precisely in line with the opposition's requests. I believe that she has merely made an algebraic calculation to ensure that this deliberate act is fulfilled. Moreover, the harmonization of the time limits, which falls within its specific competence, was also recognized at the meeting of the Conference of Leaders. But that is not the reason why I intervened. I would like to invite all Members to read the proceedings of the constituent Assembly. You would see that, from Togliatti, to Nobile, to Porzio and all the other authoritative representatives of that Assembly, the time of the speeches were certainly very limited, although full of important content. Even less time than the winds and ten minutes, if you have important things to say, in an important measure like this, are enough. If we want to adopt different techniques, which are poorly combined with a constitutional reform measure, then I am not in it. For this reason, Mr President, we, as a group, express our support for your determinations. We, with our speeches, in the time of ten minutes, believe that we will be able to present our point of view concisely, but concretely and effectively: we are enough. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u43	Mr President, even though I am the first to suffer from the trap, because another time had been proposed to me, I think...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u44	I would ask you not to use this word 'cut', because you know very well that it is not suitable for this situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u45	[[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the subject is so important that perhaps it would have been preferable to use it for the general debate half a day on Thursday, knowing what is the time of the day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is If necessary, the Conference of Leaders will, if necessary, reopen the debate. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). But by then, Mr President, we have already cut our speeches. I will therefore try to cut what I had to say, because I had tried to make an effort to read everything that has been said this summer and in recent days by members and senators of the Democratic Party and essentially by constitutionalists and constitutional reform experts. Let us now come to a first remark: I have heard several times that the legislative process needs to be speeded up, because in Italy the biblical times of the approval of the laws depend on equal bicameralism; that, therefore, would be the reason for the reform of the Senate. It is false, Mr President, because the average time for the adoption of a law in this parliamentary term is 109 days, whereas that of the past, which was 200, has led to the adoption of 391 laws, which are too many: someone less would perhaps have allowed more attention to be paid to the details. Another statement I have heard is that the direct election of the senators would upset the reform and that, in this way, the Senate would no longer be the Chamber of Self-Government. In my opinion, it is enough to read what Senator Finocchiaro said to realize that this statement is wrong: to everything wanting to grant, in fact, bicameralism has made our governments not in part stable for double trust, not for double vote on the laws. There is no doubt that there is a need for a revision of the Constitution with regard to bicameralism, we all agree, and a Chamber of Self-Government, as an expression of territorial institutions, but also of the regional, social and political reality and of their respective peoples. The fact that the House of Deputies is given the trust report is a completely free political choice, which does not conflict with any constitutional principle, while it runs counter to our Constitution, Mr President. I would like to draw your attention to what I am about to say, because someone has tried to say that the assessment of the amendments depends on your free choice, but that is not the case: your assessment must also shift to the importance or not of possible constitutional problems. That the Senate should be in all or in large part elective, according to Vincenzo Visco, former Minister of the Democratic Party, comes from the principle that bodies expressing legally relevant deliberations for the whole community must have their legitimacy in the popular vote. The necessary electivity of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic stems from the fact that Article 1 of the Constitution, stating that sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and within the limits of the Constitution, guarantees the electivity of all the bodies that exercise the legislative function. In the draft that we are examining the legislative function of the Senate, even the revision of the Constitution, it is so clear that it cannot be ignored that Article 1 of the Constitution requires the direct election of the Senate or its majority. A different configuration of the Senate would be subject - Senator Finocchiaro, I appeal above all to you, as rapporteur of the measure in the Commission - to the judgment of conformity of the Italian Constitutional Court. The Court, in fact, already in its judgment No 1146 of 1988 has confirmed that it is competent to judge the constitutionality of constitutional laws, if it violates the supreme values on which our Constitution is based. The Court itself, in its judgment No. 1 of 2014 (inconstitutionality of the Porcellum), later affirmed that the recognition of direct popular suffrage is part of the guarantee of the supreme principle of popular sovereignty: these are therefore not my words, but statements of the Constitutional Court, to which the Constitutional Court adheres when it is invested in the question of the constitutional legitimacy of the laws. The French example, which is repeated from several quarters - and I am surprised that Minister Boschi also refers to you or, at times, the President of the Council - does not take into account that Article 3 of the French Constitution expressly provides that suffrage may be directed or indirect under the conditions laid down in the Constitution. Our Constitution doesn't allow that. On the basis of these principles and in order to take away the future Senate, in particular its election, as well as the problems of constitutionality, also the beghe existing in the regional political microsystems - said the President emeritus of the Constitutional Court Silvestri, of PD origin - we certainly cannot fail to realize that perhaps all this had to be done before the establishment of the Regions; today in fact that institution, except in a few laudable exceptions, has given rise to rather wrong situations. President, at first reading I tried to bring to the attention of the senators and the government the rather strange situation we are in: we are discussing constitutional reform while the government feels invested, not only with the authority to present a bill, but to follow its implementation and to discuss outside Parliament, in a direction of the Democratic Party, what must be done. At this point, I do not even know why I am talking, Mr President - and I also understand the reduction in time - given that everything is being discussed in the direction of the Democratic Party, so that this debate is completely useless. However, I would like to continue and recall what Vincenzo Visco, Minister of the Republic, said about "La Repubblica" on Saturday, August 22, 2015 recalls that in all the European countries of the G8 and in fifteen G20 countries the systems are all bicameral and that all states that have a large population need to take into account the element of territorial representation, which certainly plays a significant role, without being able to obliterate the judgment of complexity of social phenomena, which can only be carried out through direct election. He also recalled that there is a double level in Spain: a part is elected by the territorial institutions and a part is directly by the citizens. In an amendment which I withdrew when we examined the first draft of the bill before us, and which I also proposed in the Commission at this stage, I proposed that a part of the senators should be elected by the regional councillors and a part should be directly elected by the citizens. This model, already existing in Spain, would still prevent the Senate, since it would be a mixed House, from claiming a position of trust with the Government as well as the Chamber of Deputies or having a general legitimacy. Senators, says Visco, usually do not vote for government trust in other systems as well. But the thing that interests me most, and that is to be pointed out to everyone, is that as long as we are in time, Visco still says (and we are in time), it wouldn't be bad to introduce the necessary corrections to this text, among which the increase in the number of senators, the prevailing direct election, the participation by law of the Presidents of the Regions and the mayors of the main cities, together with twenty senators of presidential nomination chosen with criteria of balance. Otherwise, in a few years' time we will probably have to intervene again on the Constitution. It is clear that this system is unbalanced. It's an authoritarian reform. Is President Renzi surprised that this is an authoritarian reform? It is when it excludes the electoral body from participation and does not tell me that participation is guaranteed by that formulation - perhaps insane - that even regional advisers are appointed in the list. I would remind you that they are regional advisers: the senator should only be a senator, even if he is elected by the territorial institution. The Senator elected by the people, on the other hand, should guarantee a strong representation that derives from the direct election, because the Senate is also competent for constitutional reforms. Mr President, I should like to conclude, although I also have other things to say. My point relates to the decisions taken so far by the Constitutional Court, to the limits that the Constitution places on the same reform and the fact that we cannot discuss why the whole debate is being conducted in the direction of the Democratic Party. No one here answers on issues that concern not politics but the foundations of any reform, as you teach me, necessary so that the new law, the new Constitution does not present those vices that can determine the intervention of the Court that would bring us back to the starting point. All this in order for the discussion to take place on the basis of truth. In fact, I have provided statistical data that show that there is nothing to do with the process of formation of the laws while we all agree that we want a Chamber of Autonomies but that it is such, that it cannot be a sort of after-work where everyone has to carry out other professions, other activities, limiting himself to come to the Senate when he has free time. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Micheloni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u47	Mr President, my position is well known: last year I did not vote in favour of the text on which we have been working; the one on which we are working today has not changed and therefore does not change my position. I will not repeat these positions, however, and not for reasons of time. I hope and believe that a united position is possible and necessary. I believe that the two roads opened by Senator Tonini and Senator Chiti are convergent and can lead us to a solution, so I do not think I can intervene in detail on this, to facilitate the work of finding a solution. However, although I hesitated to speak now, I would like to make a few brief comments. Electivity is not a whim to me, but it is a belief necessary to make the system work. Wanting to find an example in our internal policy, beyond the examples that we have brought from various other countries, what happened with the Provinces should help us understand what could happen with a Senate appointed by regional councils. When it comes to other countries, I would just like to ask colleagues to look at the systems in their complexity. You can't take pieces of puzzles, otherwise it doesn't work. That is why my opposition remains total. I hope that in the agreement that is emerging - at least I hope it is emerging - it is clear that it must be the voter who chooses the senator; but it is significant that then this can be ratified by the Regional Council, to show a connection with the representation of the local institutions (then the ordinary law will have innumerable possibilities to create this link). Mr President, I would like to make three brief comments. I am very disturbed that when we talk about the Constitution we do it with a calculator in my hand and I believe that this has nothing to do with a constituent spirit. Imagine that the problem of constitutional reform is solved by simply counting the lights that will light up on our tables in the next few days is a serious mistake for our democracy. (10.15 a.m.) (Follows MICHELONI). I want, then, to clarify a personal position. At this moment of total disinformation of public opinion in Italy, there are many readings of the Democratic Party minority as if it were a political current. But I believe that even an Italian journalist should be able to understand that, if it really were a political current with anti-government ambitions or anti-Secretary of our Party, it would have had many other opportunities to reap the fruits of a possible behaviour of this kind; here the political current has absolutely nothing to do with it: they are colleagues who find themselves on a fundamental theme such as the Constitution. If I have any notes to make to the government, it is that, for example, we have not gone far enough on jobs act and that on public administration - which together with the administration of justice is the problem of the problems of this country - we have not done enough. These are the notes I move to my government, so no anti-government attitude. It would be useful if the representatives of the government, in this House and in the secretariat, and the newspapers took this into account. There is one thing I would like to say in conclusion. One day a colleague asked me where I lived, because I was talking about Europe: I live in Europe, I travel a lot, and I find anti-politics in all the countries of Europe. Everywhere there is anti-politics, but in our country there is something more serious: anti-politics here has become the anti-institution. That is the real problem facing us. Mr De Cristofaro, the other day, tried to ask us to think about this. The answer we have to give is an answer to the Italian people who no longer believe in their institutions. When the institutions are called into question in a democracy, then the times are really dark. Even the Le Pen in France, not even in England, in no country in the world, the institutions are called into question: here we do. After all, there is a bill that would be more popular than this: if we asked Italian citizens today to vote for a Council President and twenty Ministers and to close the Chamber and Senate we would be close to 90% consent. But this is not our responsibility. Our responsibility is to strengthen, renew and modernise our institutions and to respond to anti-politics in order to restore our people to respect their democratic institutions, because when these institutions no longer have them we will realize that they are like the air and that we will no longer be able to live in democracy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u48	Madam President, government representatives, colleagues, the 5 Star Movement presented itself at the 2013 general elections as a political force that more than any other wanted and wants to reform this country. We have put forward many proposals for this: half-life for Members and senators, because we also need to reduce the number of Members to make the relationship between the two chambers more balanced; we need to cut the costs of politics, starting with the half-life of Members' allowances (it can be done, we have done so since the beginning of the parliamentary term by allocating half our salary to small and medium-sized enterprises); Parliament clear, that is to say, impossible for those condemned, even at first instance, to run for office in Parliament; abolition of parliamentary immunity (because, as we have seen in recent days, it is a guarantee systematically abused in this Parliament in order to allow some colleagues to get away with it all the time); strengthening Parliament's control over the Commission, not its opposite; reducing the excessive and damaging role of the Government in legislative matters; creating more participatory and direct democracy, increasing the areas of popular voting and introducing a quorum zero for referendums; overcoming the budgetary balance. These are just a few points on which, however, there has never been a real debate in this House, because they aim at the heart of the rights and privileges of a caste. The proportional reduction of senators and deputies, which we propose, would have the not small advantage of also safeguarding the guarantee bodies provided for in the Constitution itself, without distorting the process of election of the President of the Republic, the CSM, the authorities and the members of the Constitutional Court. Gentlemen, you can overcome bicameralism even without overcoming democracy in our country. But this is not the constitutional reform desired by the M5S; at most it is the constitutional reform desired by Denis Verdini! A subject to which they have just foreclosed the paintings and furniture of the house, and to which we owe, with Berlusconi, the moral, economic and social decadence in which our country has fallen in recent decades; a subject that in the Senate notoriously never comes, but without which this reform could never come to light. Why would Verdini and company want this reform? I tried to guess some answers, looking at its main effects. I've identified six or seven of them that I'm now listing. First. First of all, because, in the era in which citizens call for greater participation in public choices, this reform replaces the popular will - represented by the election of the Senate - with that of regional councillors appointed by the party secretariats. So it happens for the Senate, something similar to what has already happened with the abolition of the elections of provincial councils: citizens since they can no longer elect their representatives in the Provinces, they simply no longer know what happens inside them; and it is legitimate to expect, therefore, that they will no longer know it even for the Senate, for the benefit of those who, in the turbid, are accustomed to operate. Second point. To the new Senate composed of nominations, is added a Chamber of Deputies that, thanks to Italicum, will also be composed for at least three fifths of nominated by party secretariats. Therefore, the power of the parties and their secretaries increases exponentially, despite their pivotal role in the crisis of our country and the obvious inopportunity to accentuate this dangerous concentration of power. Let me turn to the third point. The combination between Italicum and this constitutional reform determines the perverse effect for which a political force that goes to the balloting even with 25% of the votes and wins obtaining three hundred and forty Members, could appoint, besides - rightly - the President of the Council, also the Presidents of the Chamber and of the Senate, the President of the Republic, the five members of the Constitutional Court elected by Parliament and, through the President of the Republic, the other five members of the Court of Presidential appointment. In short, it would have to be designated as many as ten out of fifteen: imagine the impartiality of these subjects. The majority could then designate all authorities and lay members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Senator Bondi, if a pre-ordered constitutional system sees the majority controlling all the guarantee bodies, what other name should it take if not that of the regime? I'll move on to the fourth point. Not much to be surprised, as Berlusconi tried to do the same things as the Democratic Party: from the abolition of Article 18 of the Workers' Statute, to the so-called gag law, to the reform of the Constitution. Of course, these interventions were not allowed to him because of a wide mobilization of public opinion by the progressive press, which today is silent or - worse - agrees. In short, with this reform Renzi evidently completes the work of Berlusconi. Why, then, should Senator Verdini not vote for it? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I'll move on to the fifth point. Less democracy means less transparency and more corruption, but there is not much to worry about because no one will probably notice it. I now come to the sixth point. Your majority in its composition has already been judged unconstitutional by a decision of the Constitutional Court. What better opportunity than this to overturn the Constitution, thanks to a majority elected by an unconstitutional law, by virtue of an unconstitutional majority prize? When do you ever get such an opportunity to commit so many abuses at once? I'm going to move on to the seventh point. On this reform - we know - the majority of the government has not held it and cannot therefore approve it except through an alternative, spurious majority created ad hoc in this House. I do not want to add accusations of buying votes to those of so many colleagues, including two Vice Presidents of the Senate, who compared this House to an Arab suk. One thing is certain, however, and you have accepted it candidly yourself, declaring to all the media: "The numbers we will find them." Will you find the numbers? What does that mean? In December 2010, Berlusconi bought the senators a lot per kilo to replace the runaway finians. Now it is the turn of Renzi, who filled the void of an unlined left PD with Verdinians, but also fittians, tosians, alphanians and even former members of our movement. Yet in the Commission the majority did not even have the numbers to approve this reform and that is why you brought it directly to the House. It seems, then, that you will find the votes in this House. Is that why you delayed the renewal of the presidencies of the Commissions and the appointments of the missing Ministers, Vice Ministers and Subsecretaries? Is that why even the reform of civil unions and the reform of the statute of limitations has been put aside by the Democratic Party? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But what is this way of doing politics? A policy made on the shoulders of millions of people, awaiting the recognition of their fundamental rights and justice. In support of this reform many falsehoods have been said; I remember some of them. Firstly, you have said that we must speed up the legislative process. Apart from the fact that 95% of the measures are adopted by means of the decree-law (and therefore converted in the sixty established days), but if in our country some laws undoubtedly take a lot to be passed by Parliament, it is not because there are two Chambers (so the solution is not the substitution of the two Chambers with one and a half), but - much more simply - because Government and majority, having no agreement within themselves, systematically put themselves sideways so as not to make them progress. We all know that. This will continue to happen even with one room, until you go home. The second falsehood is that this reform has been awaited by citizens for seventy years. According to a recent IPSOS survey for the "Corriere della Sera" survey, only 3% of Italians know about Senate reform; the vast majority know nothing about it. The only thing everyone has understood is that the Senate will no longer be elected. 73 percent of the citizens, actually, would like to continue to elect it. But you continue to prefer him to be appointed by the secretariats, perhaps by choosing from the regional advisers with the greatest problems with justice, in order to allow them to get away with parliamentary immunity, as you have already done abundantly in recent days. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Third falsehood: the new Senate is like the German Bundesrat. But it is not possible to deal with this constitutional reform as similar to the models in Germany, because among other things we have profoundly different electoral systems. In Germany there is the barrier, while in us there is a majority prize. At the hearing, all the alleged similarities with the German Bundesrat were wiped out, with detailed analysis of comparative law; I invite you to read it. In conclusion, I would like to borrow President Mattarella's words, which are very topical: You of the Government and of the majority are making the "your" Constitution. You have prepared it and you want to approve it (...) thinking only of your needs, your opinions and your relations within your majority. (...) Once again, on this occasion emerges the conception that belongs to this Government and to this majority, according to which the winner of the elections owns the institutions, is its owner. This is a mistake. It is a profoundly wrong conception. The institutions are of all kinds. My colleague, Mr Endrizzi, - and I shall conclude - reminded this House how this reform drew the image of a climb where, one by one, the nails jump, the people come off the wall, and we no longer know who will eventually be able to hold back the fate of democracy. I make this pressing concern my own, with the hope that, all of us, we can work to ensure that this does not happen. Before it's too late and in the interest of the country, let's stop this reform. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u49	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u50	Madam President, when we discussed constitutional reform in this House a year ago, we thought we had seen one of the worst pages of our democracy. But we hadn't seen enough yet. The months that followed, have been months in which the Government and the President of the Council in particular have clarified their idea of democracy: abolishing all representation of citizens, abolishing, canceling or severely restricting the role of elected assemblies, profoundly changing the relationship between Parliament and Executive, changing the parliamentary system to move from a parliamentary republic to man only under command. A true ideological choice, which inspired every law of this Government, in the name of the urgency of reforms to get out of the crisis and immobility: public administration, the abolition of the Provinces, the jobs act, the school. Yes, precisely the provision concerning school was the one in which the strong ideological characterization was best expressed. It is no coincidence that Italian citizens, which are not stupid at all, have well understood the undemocratic danger involved in the attack on public education. Unfortunately for us, nothing new. We know the Renzia story since the first "Leopolds," the usual refrain: in recent years in Italy the important reforms have been blocked because the political forces, their old ruling groups and Parliament have blocked everything and the only way to restart the country is to destroy. We would have expected, from this horrendous word, the breaking up of bad politics, bad choices to the detriment of citizens, bad laws such as the reform Fornero, the Bossi-Fini, the balance of the budget, the Stability Pact, the repudiation of austerity policies that have impoverished the country; and instead no: those have not been touched, on the contrary, the political choices have gone in the same direction as the last twenty years, in perfect continuity with the worst policies of the right becera that ruled in Italy and gave Europe economic and social rights and freedoms. The President of the Council himself, when he was Mayor of Florence, repeatedly stated that he could not express his political freedom precisely because the Stability Pact prevented his autonomy. But all the announcements of the breaker - in the end the mystery was revealed - were actually only useful to create consensus in the country, to take the power and control of the Democratic Party and then become President of the Council without even going through a real electoral consensus. So, today, the only thing that breaks down is democracy. Everything is presented as a need to simplify the legislative, constitutional and administrative systems. In the name of simplification, in recent years, many legislators have been involved in laws that have not at all simplified the state system. In the name of simplification, the famous reform of Title V of the Constitution was also approved: a reform done badly and incomplete, to the point that those who were then a supporter of it, today were forced to admit that obvious are the problems that should be corrected. As has also been said by other colleagues who have spoken before me, in the name of simplification the elected assemblies of the Provinces have been eliminated, announcing that the famous 3000 politicians would be sent home, but then the problems of the reorganization of the administrative and institutional functions of the Provinces have all remained on the table. It is no coincidence that in every decree-law that we discuss, Parliament is forced to intervene to put a stop to the damage caused by reforms announced and never implemented in reality, starting with the damage caused by job cuts. The message you sent to the people during this year is that the non-elective Senate is necessary to overcome equal bicameralism. We have said several times and we want to repeat that bicameralism, if it worked well, did not have and does not have brake functions, but if anything control and correction as to us who are at the first parliamentary experience taught the experience of these two years and as the parliamentary history teaches. The two readings make it possible to improve a regulatory text and to better understand its functionality. The duplication of the procedure is not the rule, but the exception, because while one House examines one act, the other does not remain firm. I do not want to tell here what we know perfectly, because we all know that blocking the process of approval of decree-laws and laws is, very often, politics, tactics and agreements in the remote rooms. However, as we have said, we would have been willing to discuss different functions between the House and the Senate and then to discuss how to change bicameralism. However, we do not agree to amend the Constitution by creating a system that, read together with your electoral law, in fact concentrates all the powers in the hands of the Executive, giving to a single political force the control of everything, from the election of the President of the Republic, to the laws, including the possibility of making own rules and a own Constitution. This is very dangerous and it is precisely what the partisans and all the anti-fascist democratic forces have fought against. Is this your idea of democracy? If today, with current constitutional powers and balances you are not ashamed to violate daily laws and regulations, let alone your constitutional design. On the contrary, while you are there, perhaps you include in the text a rule that provides that the President of the Council can convene Chamber and Senate. The words we heard yesterday in the leadership of the PD, spoken by the President-in-Office of the Council, we consider them from the'sen fugitive'. The issue of the debate is not only the direct electivity of the Senate, as you try to make public opinion pass, but the constitutional and institutional system. However, we do not think that we can trivialize the issue of the direct election of senators, because we are talking about the right to vote, the right of citizens to choose their representatives: we are talking about that popular sovereignty of which article 1 of the Italian Constitution speaks and of which also speaks the judgment of 2014 of the Council, which declared the unconstitutionality of the Porcellum. We have all read the words spoken by Professor Pace during the hearings at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where he explained very well the value of the supreme principle of popular sovereignty and how it would be violated by the lack of direct election. This is all the more serious since the Senate would be confirmed as the legislative function and the function of constitutional revision, which are at the height of the exercise of sovereignty. But you may not have been careful and preferred not to read the words of all the constitutionalists auditioned in the Commission. And what is the result of all this wide-ranging debate and the work done by the Commission? That of exchanging the election with the designation, as we read today in the newspapers among the results of the alleged agreement within the Democratic Party. With this reform - we have been told by the President-in-Office of the Council - we will have more political or less political; indeed, he has announced that he could close the Senate. We would like to remind all of us, but above all of those who govern, of those who are the leaders of this country, that we have the duty to give an example; which means avoiding the denigration of democratic institutions, taking responsibility for rebuilding the civic sense of this country and the sense of belonging of citizens to the State; to rebuild that relationship, now broken, between citizens and institutions. Today Italy is experiencing a profound economic and social crisis; it is also faced by a great ethical and moral crisis that manifests itself precisely by a removal of citizens from politics and the exercise of the right to vote. It will not have escaped anyone that the party that today wins the elections in Italy is that of the abstainers, of those who prefer to renounce the right to vote rather than to be represented by a political and political, all considered useless and harmful. If we were to do a survey, we would discover that the citizens did not just want to close the Senate: if you ask them, many citizens would close Senate, Chamber and Palazzo Chigi. We must be honest intellectually and not exploit the belly, anger and discontent, because anger feeds itself. I see that the microphone is flashing and that my time is therefore running out because of a decision by the President of the Senate, which we all learned only this morning, which obviously mortifies - I do not want to use other words - the debate on constitutional reform. This is a serious responsibility. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). I ask the Presidency to be able to attach the remaining part of my speech to the report of the sitting and I conclude by saying that there is a very serious element that we must take into account: this Parliament is discussing constitutional reform as if it were an internal matter for the Democratic Party; as if we were discussing the Congress of the Democratic Party in Parliament and therefore an agreement had to be reached to write a document between the congressional motions. I tell all of us that we are talking about the Italian Constitution, and instead you are humiliating Parliament and the Constitution. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Mussini and Gambaro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u51	The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the written text so that it is annexed to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u52	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after the first Senate reading of the constitutional reform text, which ended on 8 August 2014, the House of Deputies also approved the so-called Boschi bill at first reading on 11 March 2015. At the other side of Parliament some amendments have been made to the text which we had already adopted, as the most important aspects have largely been confirmed. On one point - I believe - majority and opposition are in agreement, as are some minorities in the Groups, or in the majority and opposition parties: we must overcome the current model of Parliament's composition based on equal bicameralism. After many attempts at reform and discussion, more or less fruitful, started and concluded in the parliamentary classrooms, in university offices and in the media, the real focus is that we have finally reached a turning point. I stress this very factor that I think is crucial for two fundamental reasons: first, because any discussion reduces itself to mere fruitlessness if it is not supported by a decisive moment. The comparison is certainly useful and functional at that moment, indeed really vital for it, but it is the conclusion of a dialogue that represents the real goal. Subsequently, there is the need to arrive at sensible conclusions, which are well able to argue the possible problems envisaged. Beyond any ideological propaganda, therefore, I believe that the process of reform that Government and Parliament have undertaken has an accomplished meaning and, when there is someone fantastic about this path on alleged authoritarian drifts, it is intellectual honesty that fails. Our country is part of a multi-level system, in which the European Union and supranational institutions, the Regions, the Presidency of the Republic and the Constitutional Court certainly ensure the existence of adequate balances. In addition, I would not restrict myself to considering Parliament, either in its present form or in what is to come, as a mere spur of the Commission: it seems to me that there is no room for considerations which realistically take into account a non-democratic evolution of our constitutional and institutional structure. Turning back to the question of reforms, it does not seem to me to be true that nothing has been done, indeed. There have been, over the years, numerous adjustments to articles of the Constitution, more or less substantial. Just think of the rewriting of Article 81, with which the State undertakes to ensure the balance between the revenue and expenditure of its budget, taking into account the adverse phases and the favourable phases of the economic cycle. We all know, from direct daily experience, what those words mean, what is the intrinsic economic value behind that lexical choice. Despite these adjustments, however, the Government has outlined the need for a re-examination of substance, with the function of directing our system towards a form of governing democracy better suited to current needs. On the revision of Part II of the Constitution, that pertaining to the republican order, rivers of ink have been written and the best skills have been put in place to understand and analyze those parts of our fundamental Charter that required a substantial update, motivated by the needs arising from the rapid and continuous evolution of the national socio-political and economic context. Without reminiscing on the various attempts made or failed, or on the various proposals which have attempted to follow up these proposals, the fundamental point of the matter is that we are now finally discussing a concrete proposal which rewrites a large part of our fundamental Charter and which will ultimately, despite the broad guarantees provided in the reform process, be able to give its assent or refusal. The priority concept, which should be recalled, is that the reform under consideration overcomes the current institutional configuration of the legislative system in a draft law which represents an excellent compromise between the visions proposed by the various political forces. Beyond the comparative perspectives, with which comparisons are too often evoked with other countries that often differ from us in non-secondary aspects, such as social or cultural ones, the Government has made clear choices in order to ensure greater transparency and a clearer determination of the political guidelines. It is useless to deny that starting again, after the complex process envisaged in the procedure for the approval of constitutional laws has begun, would be a defeat for those who consider it necessary and urgent to revisit the complex institutional structure of our State. I therefore believe that it is best to proceed in the direction indicated, since a choice must necessarily be made. This government has made two important choices: the future Senate will not give confidence to the Government (and that is why it has been decided that the election of its members should be different from that of the members of the Chamber of Deputies), and it will be a representative body of the territorial institutions, not already of the regional territories (as it is now). These are the two firm points that indicate the course undertaken, with a view to a review of the relations between Parliament and the Government and between the State and the Regions. This is the answer chosen to two fundamental questions that need to be overcome, that is to say, what they serve - after the first decade of the 21st century - two Chambers that also perform the same functions (on all, the confidence in the Government and the possibility of intervening on budgetary legislation) and how to optimize that relationship between State and Regions that, so far, finds in the courts the worst conflict. With regard to the functions of the Chambers, I agree with what Senator Cociancich said in this House, namely that some of the functions of the newly-born Senate should be revised and strengthened in relation to the emptying of powers approved by the House, especially in relation to the role of liaison between institutional bodies of the Union, the State and local authorities, participation in decisions aimed at the training and implementation of acts, regulations and policies of the European Union and the assessment of their impact and that of the activities of public administrations. However, it should be reiterated that the prospect of identifying in Palazzo Madama the seat of representation of territorial institutions is functional to the differentiation of the role of the two Chambers in clear coherence and implementation of the principle of the State of the autonomy drawn up by Article 5 of the Constitution. The political direction and the final decisions on the laws are the responsibility of Montecitorio, who, in this way, assumes a unique political centrality as a legislative assembly representing the entire nation. The streamlining of the process of passing laws - as many constitutional law experts have said on several occasions - is a point on the agenda that the reform seeks to resolve. Slimming down contributes to creating the conditions for the stability of governments as a beneficial postulate for our country. We have experienced on our skin how much instability costs, especially in economic terms. Proposing a high chamber directly elected by citizens in the same way as the lower chamber is elected, inevitably presupposes that the functions exercised are the same. Otherwise, it would not explain the assumption that the same investiture involves different tasks. Nor can the Commission continue to play on a double equal table if it pursues the objective of the stability of the executive power. In addition, one of the intrinsic benefits of the democratic system is that parties can move to the government if the citizens consider the work of a given Executive to be unsatisfactory. The need for a rationalization of the system, however, seems clear to everyone and the idea that the Senate carries out a further counterweight to the possible "degenerations" of the other House, as supported by eminent scholars, does not agree with me neither with the "historical" role played by Palazzo Madama nor in terms of current needs. Democratic confrontation and recognition of the other are acts which cannot be included in the Constitution as a moral obligation and civic duty, but which concern our choices and our cultural background. I say this because the continuous delegitimization of the political opponent (which we have lived in this House and which we still live in) is a cultural heritage that, in Italy, has been present for a long time and does not allow to get into reality, to evaluate and address the merit of the issues. Demonizing the work and statements of those who think otherwise is very simple, because it is enough to hide behind any improbation. The hope I can make in conclusion is that there will be a view of real cooperation, that is, the exact opposite of that delegitimanate function pursued so far by some political groups, in order to find the best ways to manage and govern Italian society at its best. For reasons of time, Madam President, I would ask for permission to hand over the full text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the documents. ( [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u54	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u55	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we could start a debate here, even in detail, on the need that we all can see to improve the efficiency of the regulatory process. We all remember, for example, the solemn commitment of the President of this House to get this Senate to work even in times when, at present, no work is being done. It was the beginning of the legislature when President Pietro Grasso announced that we would all work harder. The problem, in fact, according to President Grasso and according to a certain vulgata, was the implementation of the work. According to a certain mentality everything must be traced back to quantitative logic, forgetting that, perhaps, if there is not enough quality, any quantity produced is absolutely irrelevant, not to say harmful. We could, for example, reason for the need to amend the Regulations of both Chambers: on this, when we meet in the corridors or in the Commission, we all agree, except that, on time, the words do not follow the facts. In fact, it is appropriate for someone - particularly the majority - to keep the classrooms cast, bent and subaltern with respect to the real Molok, a true deus ex machina, which has actually replaced Parliament, i.e. the Executive. The Government, thanks to the possibility that it is given in exceptional and necessary way by the Constitution, has made the decree a pervasive measure, which has polluted and corrupted the healthy balance with Parliament, which instead has maintained the constitutional balance pursued by the architects who have carried out a very admirable work with the Constitution. The latter in fact allowed the country to live in balance not for seventy, but for many and many years - I correct someone, I do not remember who - and not only to grow economically - because, Senator Padua, everything is not centered on economic growth - but above all to try to do justice. If a state exists, in fact, it exists also and above all to do justice: otherwise, as St Augustine claimed, it has very little to distance itself from a band of brigands or pirates; and ours, unfortunately, in the perception of Italian citizens, is increasingly a state of lestophants. I regret this, basically because I am an Italian citizen and, as such, I appreciated what the Constitution, which allowed me to grow, granted to me and to many others. Do you know what you granted, President Faithful, this Constitution? The desire to grow for the community of which I felt part, because I was taught that participation is the keystone of democracy and is precisely that dimension in which even the smallest can become important in the eyes of others, recovering civil and political protagonism. However, I do not want to enter into the technical aspects; I would rather mention the President-in-Office of the Council, as well as the Secretary of the PD, who yesterday, during the Democratic Party's leadership, said: Italy, ladies and gentlemen, wants peace, tranquillity and laborious calm. We will give this tranquillity and this laborious calm with love, if possible, or by force, if necessary. It doesn't matter if these words, good or bad, Matteo Renzi didn't say them, because anyway the tone and the sense were certainly these: they are in fact words spoken by Benito Mussolini on January 3, 1925, in the Chamber of Deputies when the Matteotti case broke out. The sense of having to forcefully impose solutions, because it must be done anyway, echoes a dictatorial, tyrannical mentality, incapable of argumentative and democratic confrontation, which is incarnate very well by our President-in-Office of the Council. In addition to quoting Matteo Renzi, however, I would also like to mention Minister Boschi, who is now absent, who at the end of July 2014, quoted a politician from the years that were, Amintore Fanfani, remembering that in politics lies do not serve. I have been taught that lies must never be told and that they are never needed, not only in politics, but also in public communication. However, we are governed by this gentleman here (Senator Morra shows a statue of Pinocchio) so well depicted, with a nose that is further growing: the real president of the Council is Matteo Pinocchio Renzi, who says one thing, using mainly television, and the thing directly opposite and opposite does. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u57	I invite you to conclude your speech in a civilized manner, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u58	MORRA (M5S). Just a moment ago, for example, I remembered a television intervention by Matteo Renzi, at Porta a Porta, and I address you, colleagues of the Democratic Party, although perhaps I should not call you colleagues in order not to offend you, since I am a citizen, while you are senators. [[Comments of Senator Zanoni.]] On that occasion, the current President-in-Office of the Council argued that the change of office of a Member of Parliament is one of the most bleak things that an article of the Constitution allows. These very days - it seems to me that yesterday, in the direction of the Democratic Party, Mr D'Attorre reminded us of this for the umpteenth time - the hypothesis has been formulated from several quarters that the fact of taking time for 15 October is functional to a logic of haggling. I then read about senators announcing to change their minds and vote with the government. I remember that we should all respond to our consistency and I also have it for those who voted on this reform at first reading, except then regret it because, in the meantime, perhaps the electoral law has changed. I recall comparisons during which representatives of the Dem minority have explicitly told us that there was no chance of debate on the electivity of the senators, unless we find out that these colleagues themselves are now making it a battle of principle. Let the battles of principle come, but memory and coherence are typical virtues of honest man and here perhaps they do not lodge. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u59	Senator Tarquinio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u60	Madam President, almost a year ago, in August last year, we started this path of constitutional reform in an abnormal way, because never did a constitutional reform start from the government, rather than from a parliamentary force. But everything is anomalous and everything becomes almost tragic, like this House in which, at a time when we are asking for serious discussion of the Constitution - we are talking about very important issues, which totally regulate the life of the country, even if the Constitution is often put underfoot - absences are what they are and feeling is what it seems to be staying here. Perhaps you do not feel the gravity of the moment and the sense of what we are voting for. A year ago, when I read the draft Constitutional Reform, I thought I was on "Skills" apart; then I realized that this was not the case and I realize dramatically that this is still not the case today. We take it all for granted, but the real problem is to have a serious discussion, beyond the content of the individual articles. Who said the perfect bicameralism is out of date? Has anyone decided this or is it decided every time if there is a Chamber - often the Senate - in which numbers dance? Is this constitutional reform, like others done by the center-left or center-right, born for serious reasons or to indulge those who govern at a certain time? All this denotes a serious and serious problem of the democracy of this country. Unfortunately, we do not yet know what the concept of democracy is, which in a Parliamentary House means first of all not idleness. The problems are faced and discussed seriously, while nothing is discussed here. I have been and still am for the direct election of the senators, moreover it could not be otherwise, given my history and my past experience of legislators in the Regional Council. I have always said that I owe everything to the voters, to those who have endured me for so many years, but also supported me. I can say with serenity that I have never come across problems of any kind in terms of voting for exchange or the like, although I must admit that from this point of view there are dangers in various respects. However, direct election seems to be a minor problem, although I am still convinced of the opposite. I note instead that there is no openness on any topic. Looks like this reform serves the country. Does it serve as that of the Provinces, which is a disaster, a shame? I would never have abolished the Provinces because it is an intermediate entity that perhaps works better than others and that has caused less scandals than many municipalities and many regions (and I come from a region). But this happens, so there is a deficit of democracy, there is no maturity. Wanting to impose a line is something incredible. I've never seen a choice imposed without alternatives. He's got incredible! I sometimes wonder if we are before or after 1948 and whether our democracy is moving forward or backwards. We are canceling, following a kind of fashion, all forms of democracy in this country. It seems that the problems arise from the decline of senators, MPs and city councillors. If only these were the problems of the country we would have solved them, but the problems are many others and we are proving it now: "it is done a reform because this Senate does not have the right numbers for me": the center-right did it and the center-left did it and always in one way, that is with the votes of the majority in the government. It's unbelievable. The Constitution belongs to everyone. It is not imaginable that any party can say "it is so because I have ten people and you have eight" but this is happening and it does not seem to interest anyone. The real fact, beyond political membership, is that we must try to build and meet each other, but there are no signs in this sense, no signs whatsoever. A year ago we did not vote in favour of this reform and I would like to remind someone who thinks of the referendum that it was our exit from the Chamber that allowed the two-thirds quorum not to be reached; the one necessary to avoid the referendum. I would like to say to my former colleagues in the party where I was militant that if you had followed us this reform would not exist, because it would have been rejected a year ago and we would have talked about something else. Someone could have reasoned in different terms, approached and approached in a different way. Where is the democratic maturity of this country? I see a decline from forty to fifty years ago. This democracy does not evolve, it engages. That is the real problem, beyond the facts. We Conservatives are opposed to this reform. We are not voting for it as it is. There is no doubt that I do not vote for it and so many of my colleagues will not vote for it. It's invincible! Serious amendments have been tabled concerning the country. Let's forget about direct election because it looks like a tragedy when it's an act of democracy. But it does not open up to anything: on the tax ceiling in the Constitution, on the infrastructural equalization, on the statute of the taxpayer inserted in the Constitution, because we are talking about tax evasion; There is never any mention of the persecutions that the Revenue Agency and Equitalia impose on taxpayers, who pay millions of taxes, people who are asked for 20,000 euros because they own luxury homes without even sewers and water. This is what happens. These are the rights of the citizen. Where are they? Are there any other signs? There's a reform. If one thing is not possible, open up to something else. Are we open to confrontation? I don't know. We open ourselves to dialogue with those who think differently, not because I want to impose something, but to dialogue on the situation of this country. Are we capable of making a real leap and being a democracy? Are we able, in relation to these issues, not to be biased? The country belongs to everyone: it is not mine or another. That's the mindset. It seems like a obvious speech, words in the wind, but it is the real content that should animate our discussion and that I see absent. Look at the so-called opposition: where is it? But do we realize? We want to be constituent, but we may not have the right to be, given what is proposed and given the absences and the lack of sensitivity to these problems. I've always wondered where I am. I complained about the regional councils that have fallen in the last ten or fifteen years but - Holy Virgin - what I saw in these classrooms dismays me and worries me. I am no longer a boy and I worry about the generations that will come because this involution can lead to negative things. I'll vote against it. We expect concrete answers on amendments to be discussed in this House and not in the secret rooms. These are amendments that go to the people, those amendments that really show that this reform serves the people, a word that we are filling in. - Holy Virgin! - many things can change, because I can't imagine imposing direct election, but if I get something for the people I can change a lot. Whoever wants to impose this must understand that he cannot impose his vision: he must confront himself, for the good of all. It would be a leap of maturity, a true democracy that begins to take place in this country, which in the last countries has only experienced regressions. We want to discuss this and we will have a debate on every subject. I hope that this maturity will come from the President-in-Office of the Council, from whomever it may be, and from all the parliamentary forces, beyond all else. Let us reclaim, if we are capable, of what belongs to us, avoiding the factions and offenses, which are of no use to anything and to anyone, and trying instead to build on the basis of which I have spoken. If we can do that, we will have done a real service to the country, otherwise we will have done yet another piece of crap against this country. [[Applause from the CoR Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are going here in the Senate to the second reading of the draft Constitutional Reform Act, which belongs to everyone. I have heard it from all my colleagues, it is a reminder that all oppositions and all groups make to the majority party relative to the House, in the Senate and of a large relative majority in the country, which today represents about 30 percent of Italians. The risk, in reality, is that this reform is that of 30% of Italians. You see, ladies and gentlemen, constitutional reforms must be approached and tackled with great respect for the Charter and all of us. From the outset, respect among people and high institutional positions cannot be lacking. I am sorry that he is not present, but I have great confidence in the decisions that the President of the Senate will take, which is the second office of the State, which yesterday, via streaming, was given a warning by the President of the Council. If there is no respect for the second office of the State, for the President of the Senate, how can I think that there is respect for the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, for Forza Italia, for the other Groups? There is no such thing: here we proceed with one decision, the one thought. I believe, indeed, that this is not the right way to deal with constitutional reforms; that cannot be the case. On the other hand, Renzi used to this. It also does so when it comes to legislation concerning the country. No later than before the summer there was talk of the school and Renzi, in the so-called "third room" (on television), said: We're not doing anything anymore, we're gonna do a big three-day national convention, and we're all gonna hear it. The bill had already been voted by the House and had worked on it - he says - a year, because as soon as he had installed himself he had said "the school first of all", even in that case frivolous of the Commissions and the Senate. [[Applause from Senator Mussini]] He threw a message on television. It was a message to the Senators of the Democratic Party. In fact, behind the back of the country and unfortunately behind the Italians, a permanent congress of the Democratic Party is taking place. Allow me the senators - I say this with great respect because good people are everywhere - but the spectacle that the President-in-Office of the Council forces you to suffer is indecent. I turn to the Senators of the Democratic Party; then they will vote and do what they want, of course, but the show is frankly indecent. That is not how we can proceed. The country undergoes, in all legislative measures, downward compromises to keep the company together. Renzi does not speak as President of the Council, but as Secretary of the Democratic Party. He can't get rid of this role. On the other hand, I understand this: it was voted in the Democratic Party's primary elections and thanks to that vote - I do not remember the numbers, but a certainly modest vote numerically compared to the number of Italian voters - it is President of the Council. "Enrico stay serene" (winning the primary and becoming President of the Council). But it was not voted by the Italians, so it does not interpret the role of Premier, but that of secretary of the Democratic Party and it is very easy for him. What worries me is that when we talk about constitutional reforms, we need respect for Italy. I used to hear Senator Morra of the 5 Star Movement say we're political opponents, but we can't be enemies. He said, "I want to say mine." I have respect for the Constitution. We are talking about the Constitution and the rules of the game that affect everyone. The same was true of the electoral law. Why is there a double passage for parliamentary reforms? Because obviously it is legitimate to want to improve things and change your mind; otherwise there would be no double passage. The same is true of the electoral law. Is it about the democratic rules of all, or are they the rules of one part? Perhaps the rules were made when the President-in-Office of the Council - and one who would like to look at American democracy and therefore at the bipartite work done - hoped that there would be the Democratic Party and perhaps just something else. But things have changed. Well that goes to Renzi, but bad for Renzi, there are now three poles. In fact, since we are talking about everyone's rules, we must not consider ourselves enemies about this and therefore, we will reason together. Then we have completely different solutions. We propose completely different things, for example, for the economy. There are those who propose citizenship income, we want something different. Then there are those who propose, like the Democratic Party, from my point of view, chronic assistantism because it is not able to look at assistance and autonomy as we do. We have different cultures. But the electoral law applies to everyone. Here, it's bad for Renzi, but well for me to go because I like democracy, there are three poles. Therefore the electoral law with the list prize does not hold. Is it a test of intelligence and strength to have the courage to tell the Italians that they must win the elections those who know how to govern, beyond compromises and collectible majorities? I say this with the utmost respect for the forces that support this Government, even if they were elected by our votes, center-right, with Berlusconi written president in the symbol, and who today support Renzi, winner of the primaries of the Democratic Party. I always say with the utmost respect that they cannot be together: there is no left-wing government supported by the centre-right. It's obvious he can't be together. So what do we do? You make a list prize not to win, not to have the courage to show up to the Italians and say wins who is better. You're looking for escamotage. I've lost the primary once I've lost the primary once I've lost the primary once I've lost the What did Renzi say when he won the second? Now I've learned how to do it. And the same is true of electoral law. You have to make the list prize because with the coalition prize everything changes. The list award forces us to be together (apart from those who run alone) and therefore does not want to give the coalition prize that brings together the parties on programs and projects. But he doesn't care about that. He thinks as Secretary of the Democratic Party. It is clear that this is a downward issue, which is really unacceptable in all legislative measures, but when it comes to constitutional reform it becomes indecent. It is true that we took part in the first step of the measure and I have no problem claiming it, because I do something in which I believe if there is dialogue. But the conditions, I repeat, have profoundly changed in the country. So we will not vote for these reforms and we want to build them in a different way and together with everyone. We have always said this: together with everyone, with the 5 Star Movement, the League, all of them. Here there are no good and bad, there are different visions of the country, but all legitimately present in this Parliament. So things have to be changed. Among other things, there are structural defects in these constitutional reforms and provisions which also seem ridiculous, Mr President. Provisions like that, let me say, about senators for life. I say this with the utmost respect for the presidential senators, but I have considerable doubts that we should continue with the appointment of these senators. I say this with the utmost respect of the senators for life present in this House, all of whom have given glory to our country. But if you're a senator, you can't do that in time. It almost becomes a competition, while the figure of the senator for life should be a different thing. So, ridiculous arrangements. But then there are also structural provisions, about which I believe Senator Caliendo also spoke, as a technician, this morning, about which clarification is needed. We must shed light on a certain attitude that leads us to believe that those who are with me are my friends and are good and all the others are not able; just telephone a professor of constitutional law or listen to some magistrates to see that the structural objections they put - I read some of them on the Ipad - are so many. It follows that either politics is superficial or Renzi is forced to create an ideological religious clash on constitutional reform. Here I address my colleagues in the Democratic Party and, I repeat, I think that good people are everywhere, to say that it is not acceptable. Are we convinced that this is the best constitutional reform? There are problems, fundamental structural defects such as that of a House that becomes a political body, votes for trust and must make laws. Personally, I have a degree in medicine, not in law, but I can read the content of the reforms like everyone else. Maybe one can go to a technician and get them explained. There are provisions that make the skin cling: the important House is one, but it can legislate also the other. How can that be? This is a contradiction in terms, which any professor of constitutional law can point out. I do not know how much time is still at my disposal and therefore I will not read the comments that Senator Caliendo has already made and that I do mine. I think Senator Finocchiaro is a person to listen to when she intervenes. However, we do not engage in an ideological and religious confrontation on this issue. I turn to the senators of the Republic: do we realize that Renzi is making everything black or white? Is this the country we want to live in? This isn't the country I want to live in because I don't think there are any enemies. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marin, I invite you to conclude. MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). I have concluded, Madam President. If politics comes down to this, it takes a big step back. I am thinking of the institutional confrontation and the warning to President Grasso (in whose respect I have great respect because of his history), who felt compelled to say that he had spent worse in the fight against the Mafia, as well as the warning in the permanent congress of the Democratic Party (the colleagues of the Democratic Party have all my understanding). Oppositions are given the warning that they vote. Let's vote! [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] That's not gonna be the problem. With blackmail and threats, constitutional reforms are made that belong to the Italians, on the basis of a 30% consensus, however, not even demonstrated if not to the primaries of the PD. I believe that the Senate must take pride and postpone the reforms. From my point of view - I am convinced - this should be done to send home the Government, but I represent a force of opposition; but from the Democratic Party and the majority forces to reaffirm that reforms are of everyone and that there is not only one man in command. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u63	He's enlisted to speak Senator Turano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to stress that reforms, starting with constitutional reforms, are fundamental for the future of the country. I believe that they are useful to relaunch Italy and that they become indispensable to ensure the revival of the economy and the role of leader that Italy is recovering in Europe and in the world thanks to the valuable work carried out by the Renzi Government. For this reason, I am sure that the text we are debating today and that will come out of this House will be the best possible to ensure that Italy has another important push towards the future, because there is so much at stake. I am sure that, at such crucial moments, the unity of the Democratic Party will be evident to all and will give citizens those reforms that have been waiting for so long. Something about the text that we are discussing is still not good for me and I think there is some detail to be sorted out. I am referring above all to the electivity of what the new Senate will be. I have repeated this and I do not tire of doing so even today, as a good Italian who lives in America: the Senate of indirect election, as at the moment foreseen in the text under consideration, was abolished in 1913 in the United States, a country where I live and reside. The abolition was dictated by one reason in particular: to isolate and permanently remove any hypothesis of oligarchy. Among other things, a few years ago, the US Court of Appeal, studying and verifying what was produced by the 17th amendment that introduced the direct election of the Senate, explained clearly that the elimination of indirect election had as its main beneficial effect the fight against corruption in the political sphere. That is why I think that we should take advantage of the experiences of other countries and use their history to avoid stumbling into errors of assessment that, in the long run, could become dangerous. Speaking of the role of this new Senate, there would then be other gaps to be corrected, starting from the elimination of the representatives of Italians residing abroad, who lose six senators, i.e. six representatives in vast territories. It would be more appropriate, in fact, to keep the elected abroad in the new Senate of the self-governments that, as conceived, could ensure better communication with the Regions and, therefore, with the territories. And for this very reason, I believe that the representation of Italians abroad in the Senate must remain, in order to guarantee that strong bond with our fellow countrymen who live in the world. I continue to hope that we will be able to intervene already here, because the relationship with Italians living abroad is a priority in the social, cultural and economic objectives that the Democratic Party and the Government have set themselves. On this and on the other points I am sure that my party and the Government that I have supported and will continue to support will intervene, ensuring the growth that needs a modern country like Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u65	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I begin by denouncing the fact that the measure has been brought into the Chamber by force, without even beginning to examine the amendments in the Commission and - I stress this - not because of the large number of them, but because the majority did not have the numbers. Since this morning we also have the quota of the times: congratulations. It is increasingly clear to everyone that the reform, taking as a pretext the question of the activities of the senators, has been and is a weapon in the war of power all within the Democratic Party. But it is equally clear that the debate, the innumerable directions of the PD, the clashes in the same party, facing almost exclusively on the and for the electivity of the senators, represent a diversion with which the Renzi Government wants to cover a general reform of the institutions, where that of the Senate - which continues to call the Senate of the Republic and not the Senate of the autonomy - constitutes only one piece. In fact, it is a reform aimed at bringing the Italian State back to post-unitarian centralism, with an anachronistic reorganization and a re-concentration in Rome of all powers, which will only produce further inefficiency and growth of public spending. Yet the reform, at its debut, set itself important goals, partly shared for us by the North League, authentic and coherent reform soul of the country, not swinging as happened in the last three lustres for the Democratic Party. It must be remembered, however, that the overcoming of equal bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the reduction of the costs of functioning of the institutions and the revision of Title V of Part II were objectives also present in the reform of 2005, the so-called "devolution," which exceeded all the parliamentary passages, but that however the party of the DS then, today Democratic Party, through a powerful campaign of political exploitation, invited the citizens to demolish with the referendum of 2006. For the record, I remember that you too, Renzi, then president of the Province of Florence, pushed the voters to reject the reform. It happened ten years ago, but I say this to refresh the memory of some distracted citizen, who last week perhaps let himself be enchanted by her, Renzi, who, with the usual vanity and overflow, said that for seventy years the Italians have been waiting for the reform of the Constitution. You see Renzi, telling balls takes memory. Given that the Constitution that wants to be broken was approved by the constituent Assembly in December 1947, seventy years ago - that is, in 1946 - perhaps the text was not yet in the minds of the constituent Fathers, who are certainly turning into the grave today. So, with that rejection dating back to 2006, they lost ten years: you of the PD, then the main detractors of that reform, talked about teasing the Italians. You in the PD spoke of the demolition of the Constitutional Charter, of institutional confusion, of the risk of authoritarian drift and of other similar amenities. Today, however - except for a few courageous voices outside the choir - you are shamelessly endorsing a mess. Many of you are hypocrites! Now you see as silly servants the will of the party's master, maneuvered by the troika, to demolish the Constitution, with the support of the good press, in the silence or in the fearful murmur of constitutionalists and men of culture, who I see no intention of signing appeals to the Head of State, also silent and, therefore, accomplice. It is true - as my colleague Mr D'Anna once said - that this House is full of courtiers and queens, who are afraid of losing their minds. [[Applause from Senator Tosato]] It is sad to point out that at second reading, in the House of Deputies, the reform has worsened further, removing the minimum of decency that the text came out at first reading here in the Senate. In that text, in fact, the Senate had its functions, as well as the Regions; there was a reference to the standard costs and, therefore, to fiscal federalism; there was the function of linking the State and the European Union: everything was, however, cancelled. It is unacceptable for the League to return to the state centralization of any major choice, strengthened even by the supremacy clause. It is unacceptable to relegate the Senate to an empty place of functions without autonomous legislative activity. The direct non-electivity of the senators is unacceptable, which will therefore be removed from any direct control by the people. They are all bad provisions, which lead the League to prefer a more dignified choice for the Senate itself, namely its suppression. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The North League would have wanted a different measure: with more federalism, with more functions to the Regions and the Senate, with more popular sovereignty, with less interference from the European Union and less public spending. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but in view of a reduction in the number of senators to one hundred percent, why has the number of Members remained unchanged to six hundred and thirty, despite the fact that the title of the draft reform law speaks of a reduction in the number of Members of Parliament? I repeat: we are talking about parliamentarians and not just senators. On the goodness of the second level electivity of the senators attempted to convince citizens and colleagues, starting from those most sensitive to the buying campaign, referring to the German efficiency of the Bundesrat, but this is deeply incorrect. That is why we reiterate the need to change, starting with the direct electoral system, also to encourage public participation, which is the only way to restore public confidence in the institutions. But to observe you, Renzi, a skilled communicator, who turns to the citizens by banning senators as those who do not resign that there is no more compensation, it would appear that there is no room for further significant changes. He reiterated this last night in the direction of, with conceit, saying that direct election cannot exist, except then announce, with drum rolls, a possible understanding on a "surgical" amendment to Article 2, also to remedy - after the harsh and disrespectful frontal attack on President Grasso - yet another gaffe of a threatened convocation of the Chambers by him. Premier Renzi, for the authoritarian exercise of power, at least awaits the entry into force of the reform, not before. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] On this point we are sure that this agreement on the Tatarella model is yet another vulgar scam against the sovereign people, who cannot just give an opinion, but must elect their own representatives. It is welcome that the Forza Italia Group has changed the perverse logic of first reading: that of voting in any case to prevent the failure of the reform. It is not enough, in fact, to make reforms regardless. These must be of content and quality. If they are ruined, one tries to improve them at all costs; otherwise it freezes them, with good peace of Sisyphus. We cannot, in fact, repeat very serious errors such as those committed by the disordered Delrio reform, which intervened on the Provinces without eliminating them, but only changing the system of election. The Delrio law has already shown that, with hasty and improvised reorganizations, you do not save a euro, also because here at stake there is the Constitution, with the risk of heavy and incalculable damage that would fall on the country for several years. You, Renzi, with Delrio, started to make institutional butchery: a reform that represented the first attack on local autonomy and an attack on direct democracy, just like today's constitutional bill. The Delrio law is a revolting and irresponsible reform: it has created chaos with staff, chaos over the functions and management of services, creating new problems for businesses and citizens. The experience of Delrio, who will soon call his Government into question to put in pieces, should suggest caution and attention. All the more reason, if we think about the combination between constitutional reform and Italicum, there is a high risk of bringing the country to a regime where in Parliament, around man only at the command, there will be plenty of courtiers, Reggyod and swindlers of the party secretary.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u67	I invite you to conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u68	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. I'm a few seconds away. Mr Maran, to you who is a supporter of reform, and between the two conceptions of democracy, to that assembly based on the centrality of Parliament, said that you preferred the one based on the responsibility of the Executive, I remember that the problem is that in Italy for too many years the Premier, and therefore Renzi, are no longer elected and appointed by the people but are appointed. I repeat, therefore, what Mr Calderoli said: if in a system the majority controls the guarantee bodies, it is called a regime. Premier Renzi, agree to improve the reform and then focus on the real problems of the country, which can no longer be eluded by your government. I am talking about taxes, about the work that is lacking, especially for young people who continue to run away from abroad, who are distrustful. I'm talking about exodus and pensioners who don't arrive at the end of the month. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). In conclusion, Mr President, I am talking about the immigration emergency and the necessary defence of borders. I am talking about the huge public debt that, with its government, has not stopped growing and that will even more splash at the top with the law of stability it has in mind to do. I would ask you to hand over the remainder of my speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let us try to ask ourselves three questions: what are we doing, how and especially why. We are discussing the revision of the constitutional text in conjunction with the revision of the electoral law; combined that - it has been said from several quarters - is very dangerous for the installation. Why? First of all, it is for the way in which we are dealing with this matter, with a very small majority, with a sale, which I do not mean monetary but certainly contractual, of senators, and therefore with a shift of people from one position to another, where we should have the maximum participation and sharing. What happened right now? We have started the debate with the quota, or rather the so-called leghold trap, of the times of debate, after we have come to this House without concluding the process in the Commission, and now we are talking scandalously - there is a rumor - about a probable confidence in the revision of the constitutional text. Yet Renzi, in order to win the primary, had told the Italians that he would cut the number of parliamentarians and allowances by half. Instead, with this reform, we will find ourselves with two thirds of the Members of the House and with all the appointed senators. We will therefore have a useless Senate: no, not useless, but dangerous, because not only will we have senators after work, but even senators who will not take the diary, but will have immunity. And, therefore, their non-eligibility is an important issue for their blackmailability. Then it would certainly have been better to eliminate it: clearer, more direct and more transparent. The Premier claims that, in these days, the Constitution is used as a diktat. This statement is very serious in itself, because our Constitution is still valid today as a guarantee of our democracy. But seeing its use as a possible diktat compared to its decisions is absolutely an abomination. The Renzi slide that we saw is a map of litmus; the lapsus that he had yesterday, during the debate in the leadership of the PD, shows that the king is naked: he has clearly stated his vision and his respect for the institutions and how he imagines it should be Parliament tomorrow that - in my opinion - goes beyond an authoritarian presidentialism. The whole discussion has now focused on the difference between designation and electiveity. It is appropriate to say that this is the nerve of the issue, although much more has been said and it would be appropriate to say again about the elimination of the perfect bicameralism. This is the nerve of the matter, because the whole thing is played on it. By affirming that Article 2, which deals with electiveity, must not be touched, Renzi makes an error of a kind not only regulatory, but also constitutional. This is certainly a regulatory error, because we know for certain that the Rules of Procedure provide that when, during the reading of the House, an amendment is made, the article can be amended. Above all, however, that it is a constitutional error, because the doctrine in the sector, both in times not suspect (so far) and more recently, strongly supports the importance, with Article 138, that the Constitution be considered above the procedures indicated in the Regulations. The constitutional revision procedure is atypical and cannot be flattened to ordinary regulations. Moreover, this has already happened in the 11th legislature with Napolitano and even more recently in the House with the so-called devolution. And let's get to the why of all this, that is, take it off. There is a need, certainly not me or my group, to remove democracy, participation, popular sovereignty and to concentrate everything in the name of what is considered governability. I would like to remind you that, in July 2014, having already had the honour to talk about this constitutional reform, I mentioned a report by JP Morgan, which - as we all know - is the leader of global services and brings together a thousand banks from all over the world. This report on the euro of 28 March 2013 was addressed precisely to Europe and in it the Europeans were urged to get rid of their anti-fascist constitutions that were born in the wake of liberation from authoritarian systems. Clearly, in that report it is said that, because of these Constitutions, the necessary austerity revisions cannot be applied, because there are governments that are too weak towards Parliament, towards the regions, the workers and their rights. They are Constitutions that provide the license to protest if there are proposed changes not welcome. That is why we absolutely need this constitutional revision! Otherwise, this legislature falls! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is Renzi's mandate: to destroy our democratic and anti-fascist constitutions. And, in fact, we have had, since July 2013, the unblocking Italy, which subtracts sovereignty from territorial authorities; the jobs act, which controls workers. We have had good school and we have health reforms in place. That is why this constitutional reform is absolutely necessary and unavoidable. It is the centralization of power, in order to ensure that there is no longer a parliamentary debate, that the House is subject to the Premier and that its vision of the Government and of Parliament is realized, which, with its slipperyness, has made it understood. This is a vision where, precisely, a President of the Council can, for a decision of the President of the Senate, summon the Chambers together. Of course, Renzi then corrected himself, but we know how important the lapsus are and how the true reasonings and feelings are celined. And we saw the king naked in that statement. We have seen all the respect he has for the institutions and for Parliament. How many times have we incited the so-called dissidents of the left area of the PD, but they bark but do not bite. And I still hope that those men and women will find the courage to do what they say, and not just say it! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u70	Senator Moscardelli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u71	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with this debate in a very important phase of the reform because, from what will happen in the Senate, we will understand whether it will be able to reach approval and, therefore, to the referendum to be confirmed or not. I am very confident that this will happen in this branch of Parliament, so that we can follow up and give strength to a program of important reforms that has concerned and is affecting our country in many areas; and on the eve of a law of stability that finally puts us in a position to give more strength and consolidate a recovery that, in our country, is in place. It is therefore a crucial step, because the approval of constitutional reform gives strength and greater credibility and authority to the overall reform agenda. In this passage to the Senate we need to intervene on some elements that have been modified in the Chamber and on one that can find a wider sharing in relation to the topic discussed about the composition of the Senate and the balance between the necessity that this House, according to the structure of the reform, is formed by indirectly elected senators and a clear indication from the voters who, therefore, contribute to the indication of who will sit in the Senate, although with the status of councilor (the office of senator will remain tied to the fact that they are standing the Regional Council within which they are elected). I believe that, here too, the various positions have been distilled from the elements of greater distance in order to find a technical solution useful for the continuation of the reform. Another important step will be the one concerning the functions, because the downsizing done to the Chamber of Deputies is wrong: the legislative process as configured in the approval made here to the Senate - in my opinion - was an important point, which held together, at the same time, the needs of overcoming the bicameralism of equality, and therefore a diversification of the two Chambers, with the participation of the Senate on fundamental passages such as constitutional revision and a whole other series of functions to which the Senate would have participated in an equal way with respect to the Chamber, or with the possibility of enhanced procedures. In the criticisms that I have heard today in this debate, and that are within the more general debate, we have a convergence with the use of very strong and absolutely disproportionate words and words, which do not serve our democracy and institutions well and which come from profoundly different cultural and political positions. I would like to remind you that this constitutional reform has no bearing on the form of government. We are doing a constitutional reform that concerns the overcoming of bicameralism and the composition of the Senate according to absolutely consolidated models that we find in most of the great European democracies - I quote Germany, France and Great Britain - to review the reform of Title V of the Constitution, in the face of the explosion of conflicts before the Constitutional Court between the State and the Regions. The form of government is not affected and, therefore, when we come to talk about authoritarianism, saying that Parliament and the institutions are placed in the hands of one person, one man, we make a statement that frankly does not correspond to reality. These criticisms, moreover, are also made by those who were the protagonists of a reform, that of 2005, which instead had a profound impact on our Constitution. The reform we are discussing today fits perfectly into the constitutional structure that emerged from the Constitution and does not upset it at all. I would like to remind you that, on the other hand, the 2005 reform - when the political part represented by some of the Members who spoke today was the protagonist - one of its main elements was the allocation to the Premier of a whole series of powers forming part of the premierate or the Chancellor's model, and therefore a government with parliamentary trust not directly elected, but with strengthened powers, which our President-in-Office of the Council has not and will not continue to have once approved the reform. But there is more: the President of the Council was also given the power to dissolve the Chambers, which has no examples in any other system of the great Western democracies and in democratic traditions. That was the element that gave that reform such a peculiarity, a twisting impression of the constitutional system and a power that does not even have equal in the President of the Republic of the United States of America. I would therefore like to hear colleagues from Forza Italia talking today about authoritarianism in this reform, as well as being a topic of propaganda and rallying, and I do not find it to have any dignity in a serious confrontation within this House. On the other hand, another part of the political forces which has a different kind of approach has a very heavy criticism, referring to anti-fascists, partisans and so on. I would, however, like to recall not only the arguments that I have used now to counter the colleagues of Forza Italia who have changed their opinions and speak of authoritarianism, but that those forces have been within a political process that concerned the birth of the center-left and of the olive tree, which in its fundamental thesis proposed the constitutional reform with the same configuration of the Senate that we have today. And that was in a political-cultural context in which Prodi and the forces that competed with the olive tree spoke of the need to overcome democracy based on proportionalism, a democracy substantially more attentive to the burdens and counterweights than to government action. We were then talking, with a very elegant expression, about deliberating democracy and this was happening - I would like to remind you that in order to disassemble another topic - in a context in which the electoral system of Mattarellum was in place, with single-minded colleges and a substantially majority electoral law. In view, therefore, of the position for which it would not be possible to say that the reform of the Senate, as it is configured today, is fine, because the linking to the thesis of the Olive tree would not make sense because today, with the approval of the Italicum, the system has changed, I remember that the thesis, supported also by those who today attack by alternative positions to Forza Italia the constitutional reform, was thought with the Mattarellum, seen so positively compared to the current electoral law of the Italicum, recently approved. I would point out, however, that in the uninomial colleges the party or coalition chose the candidate and wrote it on the card, exactly as with the Italicum. Thus, in the hundred colleges each party or force participating in the elections writes the name of the candidate, with the same value as with the Mattarellum. The rest of the Members are chosen with their preferences. In particular, two thirds of the members of the majority are chosen with the system of preferences, because those who take the majority prize will have the 100 Members indicated by the party, as was the case with the Mattarellum, and the other two hundred and forty chosen by the voters with the system of preferences. We have, therefore, Members who have a popular investiture, however important, perfectly in line with the decision of the Constitutional Court on the Porcellume in which the alternative between preferences - let us remember - and very narrow lists in order to make the candidates recognizable, which is then what happened with Italicum. In fact, with the majority prize, if on the one hand there is the possibility of responding to the country's need for government, on the other hand, the fact that it is limited to just over twenty Members ensures that, however, there is the possibility of control and that a minority of a few dozen Members can be an element of counterweight within the majority compared to a hypothetical and presumed man only in command. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude your speech, Senator. Mr Moscardelli (PD). Yes, ma'am. Moreover, our Constitution has a strong system of weights and counterweights and wants to attribute to the Senate, through the direct election of senators, the function of counterweight to the House means to make a change of what happens in the greatest western democracies and the function that the Senate has instead of the autonomous and the regions. The German model, which is said not to be invoked, is actually invoked by some, when there is, however, a proportional law in that country that very often obliges parties - as has happened in the recent past - to join forces, even if they may have presented themselves in an alternative way. Even those who defend that model then accuse the Government of not having a popular legitimacy. I believe that once the debate on these subjects, which appear frankly instrumental, is cleared up, it is possible today to make a true and useful reform, which renders a great service to our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u72	Senator Liuz is registered to speak
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u73	Madam President, we are here today, although driven by haste and an artificial urgency, certainly more political than contingent, to assess the consistency or rather the inconsistency of the constitutional reform proposed by the Government, which risks dragging Italy into the moth. The President of the Council, at a meeting of his party, the PD, yesterday even decided to convene the Chambers if President Grasso should exercise those powers that the Constitution and the Rules of the Senate assign him, namely to authorize this Senate to correct a profoundly wrong and harboring reform of an authoritarian drift consciously wanted by those who today govern us. We all agree that the current constitutional structure and the Constitutional Charter, as it stands, need a profound and thoughtful change, but we cannot close our eyes to the many problems that this reform has clearly marked in DNA. If, in fact, it is a fact that almost all major democracies adopt (in and out of Europe) the bicameral model, one cannot overlook the fact that these models are the subject of prolonged reform processes, much more than they are with the Lower House. In fact, there are profound changes in contemporary societies and globalization that require weighting, reflection and intelligent interpretation of events. Read, in this regard, the warning that comes from the illuminating pages on the liquid society of sociologist Zygmunt Bauman. It is not, therefore, a peregrine idea that Italy too wants to adapt its Constitutional Charter to the most modern and dynamic needs of our country, sixty-seven years after its approval. Unfortunately, as more and more often happens, a legitimate and well-founded requirement, instead of being satisfied by a corresponding reform work well calibrated to be suitable to replace the text to be repealed, in a profitable way for the needs of citizens and society, is realized in a draft law messed up to meet well specific political needs, which however do not coincide with the common feeling in the country. Leaving aside the absurd procedural irregularities to which the draft law has been submitted, which, par excellence, is protected by the most stringent constitutional guarantees, with a view to safeguarding the Charter which contains the fundamental principles of our legal system; leaving aside, therefore, the inherent inconstitutionality of this draft law of constitutional revision, what is the crucial point that this reform had to address? The node that the constitutional compromise of 1946-1948 for the historical reasons that we all know could not face at the time, nor in the subsequent sixty years? What constitutional reform is it, if we do not aim straight at the heart of the problem, i.e. the forms of State and Government? Renzi chose, with the proposal that is in the field, to bypass these problems with a double escamotage: for one verse, with the preferential lane for the measures of the government; for the other, with the mix between electoral reform and constitutional reform, entrusting an immense power to the party that wins and takes everything, but without the necessary counterweights, so that our democracy does not suffer vulnus, not be offended. While in the great democracies, such as the American and above all Anglo-Saxon democracies, to which the group of Conservatives and Reformists is inspired most of all, those who win take so much, indeed take everything, but with an adequate system of counterweights, for which there is a strong Government and a strong Parliament, a strong Government and a strong opposition and, above all, there are strong institutions. Here, however, you have chosen to maintain the weak institutions, more than they have been in this 60 years and to have an immense force incardinated in the first party. This is the underlying error that promises to be - alas - dramatic. But it is not the only one: we are talking about the Renzi Government's choice of Senate, on which the PD has not yet taken a definitive position. You have told the country one thing for so many - also for me - positive, that is the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism. But that's not how it is. You told the country that the Senate was abolished and that's not even true. Elections for the Senate have been abolished and it is precisely on this point that the Group to which I belong has proposed amendments not only to restore the direct electivity of the Senate as an elementary democratic garrison, but above all to abolish it definitively (the main solution, the preferable one rather than this obbuse of reform that you propose us), in order to really achieve a situation of monocameralism. 12:03 p.m. (Liuzzi followed). When the citizens discover that with your proposal not only the Senate will not be elected, but it will be awarded even to the Regions (which are the main body responsible, from 1970 to today, for the explosion of public spending in Italy), but that to those same Regions you will entrust penetrating powers precisely on the laws of budget and spending, what discovery will be for them? We therefore come to a further focal point of the reform, which will be of particular interest to the public: the economic part of the Constitution. For starters, you assign significant powers to the new Senate over budget and spending laws. It is a system that risks exposing governments and future majorities to dangerous negotiations with the Senate of the Regions, to a game of blackmail that will necessarily increase public spending. I hope that this will be corrected. I hope that you will carefully assess our proposal to introduce a tax ceiling into the Constitution, which will enable a contribution to put everyone in a position to pay taxes without feeling vexed by the state and local authorities. This constitutes a sure element of liberal civilization and restores sovereignty to our country, being able to attract foreign investors and restoring serenity to the productive categories for the benefit of the entire national community. Not only that. Through the extension of the competences of the Senate, we wanted to introduce in the Constitution the principle of the infrastructural equalization, that is to say that the Constitution promotes the implementation of initiatives aimed at recovering the pernicious deficit of public works and high technology in the various geographical areas of the Country, to be implemented in coherence with the structural action in support of the removal of economic and social imbalances. Of course, the Mezzogiorno will benefit from it, but the country and Europe will benefit from it. And again. For the first time we have strongly supported, with our amendments, the introduction into the Constitution of the general principle by which it is expected that new taxes cannot be ordered by decree-law. In this way, the provision of Article 77 of the Constitution is supplemented, providing for further limits on the use of this legislative act by force, limited to fiscal matters. For these reasons, it seems to me that behind this constitutional bill there is not the great project that led the constituent Assembly, in 1946, to produce a great result, for which giants like De Gasperi, Togliatti, Moro, Croce, Einaudi, Nenni, Saragat and Calamandrei were compared. Sixty years later - and I tell myself - I don't see giants around. There is no broad breath in this reform, there is no long look. [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u74	Please continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u75	LIUZZI (CoR). But why don't we all agree that we essentially need to exercise all our senses to improve Italy? Those giants took time, that time that today Renzi considers superfluous, and deepen the issues; we, who are not giants, want to proceed with the blinds, proceed to tell that the Senate will be abolished and not abolished, that progress is made and instead give more power to the Regions over spending, not to effectively face the form of State and the form of Government, to assign so much power to a first party on which immense contradictions will then be grave. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u78	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, since the timing of the debate has been harmonised for both today and tomorrow, I would like to know the list of speakers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, the list of interventions is on display. AIROLA (M5S). But only for today, I presume. Can we have the general list of the two days, since the times have been harmonised? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The offices will provide. I inform the Assembly, after consulting the Presidency and informally the Groups, that the planned suspension will take place from 1.30 p.m. to 3 p.m. Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u79	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, and all citizens, I confess, Mr President, that I am somewhat embarrassed to enter into the substance of the debate because I am a very practical, practical person, as I have shown over the last two years, accustomed for professional reasons to be detailed, as a pathologist, I would say surgical, I do not know what areas to move in. I'd hate to waste my time analyzing articles like the 2 which, in your indisputable opinion, could be exempted from the discussion. On the emendability of the text of Article 2 not within the substance of the issue both in the regulatory, constitutional and the precedent, as it is already the subject of discussion by the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement. But here I would like to point out, in my opinion, the incongruity of the process. In some ways, we could say "many work" for nothing and therefore we could propose analyses and resolutions, without which they can be used. My embarrassment then grows when I read or hear comments like that of the President of the Council who says: "I have been seventy years that the Italians are waiting for the end of equal bicameralism." I would like to quote from the Newspaper Fact of 18 September 2015 the following: Maybe it wouldn't spoil the reading of a history manual, even in Bignami format, (...) to teach the two founding fathers some rudeness of general culture, very useful to fill their gaps and save them other nonsense. The bicameralism paritarian - House and Senate with different electoral rules, but with similar functions - was introduced by the Charter approved by the constituent Assembly on December 22, 1947, promulgated five days later by the Head of State and entered into force on January 1, 1948. That's 67 and a half years ago. And it can be quietly ruled out that in the following years someone would call for a reform of the Constitution that has just been launched. To have a President-in-Office of the Council who, as they say in my area, speaks a lot to the kilo, to say with so much pressapochismo, proud of his mediocrity, leaves him bewildered. When we talk about reform of the Constitution, which is the fundamental law of the State, to which all other laws refer, we must necessarily be precise, determined, rigorous; otherwise we are incapable. Even on the alleged savings the President of the Council shoots hyperbolic figures (one billion): do you remember, in January 2014? While, in fact, the complete abolition of the Senate would entail savings of 150 million euros. But I'll come back to that later. If words can be vague, numbers can't! We need to pay close attention. Renzi sometimes reminds me of those buggers who in some televisions give the lotto numbers: who advertises gambling? That the President of the Council is an approximate person I had already seen it when in a speech of his some time ago, right here in the Senate, he used the word degrowth and the word recession alternately as if they were synonymous: instead, they are two nouns that have two meanings very distant from each other. Maybe another bignamino could be of use to him. Perhaps he noticed these serious shortcomings and, in order to prevent the Italians from getting too involved, he provided to demolish the school: better all ignorant, so he does not disfigure. I would like to point out, first of all, that a Parliament of nominees, with a law that has been declared unconstitutional in some respects, claims to change the fundamental law of the Italian State. This aspect should already cause us to desist in the purpose of changing it in such a radical way as to dare to make the measure that we are going to analyze. Unfortunately, I see more and more Members of Parliament who are trying to avoid a government crisis. Personally, I believe that with the entry into force of the so-called Italicum electoral law, the revision of the Constitution must be assessed even more carefully, because such a majority electoral system is able to alter the balance between the powers of the State (I think I am not alone in supporting this). Another point to add is that the draft constitutional law under consideration is a government initiative. This fact is very serious, given the Government's willingness to take over the right to promote and impose radical reforms of the fundamental Charter, even in time. Speaking of timing, since it has been changed, I would like to remind you that the "reasoner" who has contingencyd the times at the previous reading in August 2014 has so heavily compressed the times that he then had to suspend the work on public holidays, thus taking away space for the Groups and the discussion. I would remind you that in the Senate many constitutional bills - 51, to be precise - had been presented to testify that the Senate had not forgotten the need for revision of the Constitution and that the discussion was in progress. All the parliamentary groups had proposed more or less broad solutions to improve some points that slowed down the functioning of the Senate and, consequently, of legislative activity. I would like to add that many functional aspects could be resolved by amending the House and Senate Regulations, which is much easier and more effective. I will not go into the substance of the various articles of the measure, partly because the time, which has been reduced, would not allow me to do so. However, I would like to make a few simple comments which seem to me to be necessary. I would like to point out that the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies excludes from the functions of the Senate the matters referred to in Articles 29 (on family law), 32, paragraph 2 (on compulsory health treatment), but above all, 116 and 117 (on regional competences) of the Constitution. The role of the Senate is further emptied, to the point that the constitutionalist Michele Ainis wrote about the Newspaper Fact last Sunday: the real node (of the discussion) is that of the competences of the new Senate. The perfect bicameralism, with all its limitations, was a guarantee for democratic balance. This reform emptys Madame palace of most of its prerogatives and makes it a hybrid, neither meat nor fish. There are two models of Senate, one of the guarantees and one of the autonomy. The former has strong powers of control, also over the Government; the latter represents the local authorities. The body redesigned by the reform under discussion will not be able to do either. He will no longer vote for the government's confidence and will only be able to veto a few measures. In addition, it will not really be able to represent the regions, which in turn are deprived of much of their competences. At this point, it would be better to abolish the Senate completely; at least you would not mock the Italians. Returning to Article 2 of the measure, I would like to point out the countertrend of assigning more posts to the same person present in Europe. In our case, we'll have a regional senator councilor or a mayor senator instead. Is Europe asking us that? No, this time it is not Europe that asks us to do so. I remember that in France organic law 14 February 2014, n. 125, introduces the prohibition of cumulation between the mandate of deputy or senator and all executive positions in the regional and local government. It is, in short, the exact opposite of what Renzi wants to do for the Senate. What, then, is the true meaning of Article 2? The point is evident by re-reading Article 68 of the Constitution, which has not been touched on and which, as you all know, contains provisions on immunity, which are now extended to regional senators and mayors senators. At a time when the regional councils not subject to investigative activities are an exception and the mayors of different municipalities are making themselves noticed in the eyes of the world, the Senate will become the place where to winter those who do not shine for transparency and honesty. You think I'm getting rid of those mayors and advisors, comrades of snacks, who stay at home and do not enjoy immunity. Poor people, you forgot about them! I'd like to go back to the theme of the much-warned savings. If, as mentioned above, the complete abolition of the Senate would lead to savings of about 150 million euros, this reform will instead save about 60-70 million euros, which is certainly an important figure. However, it would have sufficed to renounce the public funding of the parties, which the citizens cancelled by a referendum but which, with the help of a complacent and enslaved communicative system, you have re-proposed under false name, re-voted and concealed to the citizens. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] These considerations would suffice to understand that the bill does not stand and that savings are only a propaganda argument, such as the sale of the so-called blue cars: there will certainly be less of them on balance as fixed assets, but much higher will be the leasing item. Finally, I return to one of the founding rules of the 5 Star Movement: the maximum limit of two mandates. You see, for us in the Movement, it's a mantra, it's what gives us the strength to fight for real change. You don't have that courage. Otherwise, you would have dealt with an amendment to Article 65. Today, and I address my colleagues in the majority and all those who are approaching, when you vote for a measure, before you think of the public interest, think of the private interest: your private interest, that of being re-elected. This rule would be enough to drastically reduce the mafia infiltration in public administrations. It is now proven that it is politicians who seek the mafias to get the votes, in exchange for public works. This was asked of you by 350,000 citizens on September 8, 2007. You've molded their signatures, but their desire is more current than ever. The passage to the House has resulted in a reduction in the prerogatives of the Senate, without compensating it with the expansion of the power of citizens, but keeping the version out of the Senate in which, in Article 11, increases the number of signatures required for a bill of popular initiative, from 50,000 to 150,000 signatures, with the promise that the object of the popular petition will be dealt with at certain times. Which ones? You have not even considered the possibility of referendums, because you are afraid of citizens: that is the truth. You're no longer credible. And now I turn to the citizens: do not let this law transform the system into a regime; let us begin to organize ourselves for the referendum, to take back our Constitution, which is the most beautiful in the world. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u80	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the concern which Mr Napolitano expressed in the Commission on 15 July was that we should continue to do and undo the canvas, slipping towards a fatal extension of time. This concern I have no difficulty in making my own, with the clarification, very fittingly introduced this morning in the debate by a colleague of the League, who, when the canvas was done (we were in the legislature from 2001 to 2006), was then the popular referendum that unraveled that canvas. That reform - President Calderoli, I address to you, which was one of the highest references - had the merit of setting the stakes for a pan-regionalist imperialism that had frankly become unacceptable. That is why I have much more difficulty in sharing with President Napolitano the hope that the new Senate will be the instrument through which to overcome experiences, dysfunctions and increasing conflicts between national legislation and regional legislation, that is the experience we have experienced all these years. The truth is another. The truth is that the regional order, or rather the so-called state of autonomy, entered the Constitution, on December 22, 1947, not as a strong point of our democracy, but as a dark point, which would have been further clarified. But that was not the case, because regions were not spoken of until 1970. Then there was such an arrangement, but without adequate financial law; this was the argument that prompted a non-regionalist like Ugo La Malfa to vote against in 1970. Then in the mid-1970s - Massimo Severo Giannini maximum reference - we had a disorderly ballet, confused and humiliating between management powers and legislative powers, the so-called fateful decree of the President of the Republic n. 616 of 1977. Then we had a long discernment about federalism, let me say empty, on the basis of the results. First we had federalism as a Constitution unchanged, at the time of the Bassanini laws (we are in the second half of the 1990s) and then in 2000 the reform of Title V, wanted and voted only by the left to complete and frame the inattackability of the Bassanini laws. How can we fail to note that, from all these passages, our rule of law, our liberal state has recorded a setback, a blurring, to the advantage of the de facto powers of that so-called State of the self-government, which imposed itself with a sort of coup d'état to the constituent of 1947? Bicameralism, on the other hand, was not the landing place of a handstroke: anything else. It had been a guarantee port, against an excessively Jacobine conception of the Assembly, which after twenty years of fascism seemed to be a natural port. That is why, returning with memory to those oppositions between the national state and the state of autonomy, between the liberal state and the state no longer only liberal, it was a terrible mistake to arm these oppositions against each other. I remember very well - it is present in all the books of history - the clash occurred at the National Council, before the Constitutional Council, between Benedetto Croce and the then President of the Council Ferruccio Parri. The Consulta had the feeling that Croce had managed to contain, thanks to the help of De Gasperi and, overall, of the DC, the "new" shareholder. But then, in the constituent Assembly, or rather far from Rome, in the Sicilian coup that led to that Sicilian Statute that preceded the Constitution, the victory of the so-called territorial autonomy was celebrated, made possible by the coldness and insufferance of many towards the State of the Risorgimento. So, bicameralism and regionalism have a different history. The only common point is that speech - I can't say if blessed or cursed - which indicates how the Senate of the Republic is elected on a regional basis.It is the cross and delight of all our successful or failed attempts to reform our electoral system. Above all I have the impression that he wanted to put in the attic - tendentially and in bad faith, for those who have read the texts of the Constituent - the criticism always constructive and never preliminary with which the liberals in the Constituent expressed themselves on the theme of the balance between the powers of the State. The problems of the Region entity were then much debated and controversial and perhaps were the worst defined ones. Moreover, in the historical context, when it is said how the form of the State has been linked to the autonomy, a historian who I would like to remind you of this Assembly and who was also a Member of Parliament - Roberto Ruffilli - spoke of a progressive noun of compromises, constitutional and not, in a truce with the centre of the policy of double track, present in various ways in all the mass parties, and a common policy of postponement. In the considerations made on the same subject by another historian, such as Ornaghi - also Catholic, perhaps one could say left-wing Catholic - we read that, in order to keep liberal contents at bay, the idea of a preamble to the constitutional text was discarded, containing the "programmatic indications," leaving to the text a real regulatory profile, and many liberal proposals were lost and archived, in terms of autonomy and self-government: in short, what is now called the deception of a "Providence State" was celebrated. In short, the State of the self-government hurt the national state to death, at the expense of the same national state, with good peace of that self-government, to the Anglisassone, of which everyone filled their mouths. So, that of the Regions is frankly a case of exaggeration. The advocates of regionalism have so excited and drunken themselves, without a definite object, in almost more than half a century, to induce - we find some echoes also in our debate today - the anti-regionalists to perch themselves in a category considered unworkable, even if not unthinkable. In recent days and weeks, following a decision of the Constitutional Court, the balance sheet of the Piedmont Region for the 2013 financial year has risen to the honours of the chronicles of the great national press, in which funds intended to repay the public administration's debt have been used to finance new current expenditures or even to inflate their spending capacity. I am pleased to introduce this issue, because we are a little horseback riding; from 15 October we will deal with the budgetary session and there we will find the regionalistic curse. An economist, a colleague of ours in the last legislature, on the banks of the PD but not without some liberal sensitivity, commented on this story of Piedmont and the other Regions with these words: Like Greece, even worse. It's too easy to rub it among the owls. The truth is that Nicola Rossi in those beautiful articles on the judgments of the Constitutional Court, which the Government will have to take seriously in preparing the law of stability, did nothing but make alive the very current arguments that supported the Constituent Cross, Nitti, Einaudi, Orlando. Rossi this summer wondered: if we save the Swindling Regions, if we allow the false in the public budget, how can we tomorrow even evoke the concept of merit in the public administration of the Republic? The truth is that both the constitutional dictation of 1948 and the reform of Title V of 2001 - but I would add more nuancedly the same budgetary balance that took place with Monti to the einaudiano balance of budget - have built up profiles of irresponsibility, other than autonomy! There has been a very strong incentive to increase regional spending and to demand increasing transfers from the centre; that is, the usual autonomy at the expense of the national State, that for Nitti and Einaudi - which were not owls and even owls - was a prediction, today is a so bitter observation that we would have the duty to do, but from which we slip. Recently, those who Sabino Cassese, in a successful volume, issued last summer - a book perhaps inelegant because a newly expired constitutional judge does not trace diaries - have ravaged the lawyers of the Regions: that is, journalists, a public opinion and politicians who are always and in any case on the side of the Regions, without independently assessing the reasons of the Regions and those of the State. Even in the Court, according to Cassese, in his elegant profiles, a similar attitude has appeared several times. That is why it seems to me a very serious gap that the new Senate of the Regions can accentuate this uncritical, stupid and insulting pan-regionalism. Of course, I know very well that the reasons we've wrapped up... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). I'm finishing. As I said, the reasons why we have wrapped up in this cursed affair of the Senate of the autonomouss are foreign to constitutionalism, but I would degrade this Assembly, I would degrade my Group and myself if I too included in the debate considerations of renzism or anti-renzism, alphanism or anti-Alignism. I was hoping that, even in ten minutes - perhaps in twenty minutes - the House could take on board these problems. I still hope so, in the name of the respect I feel for that liberal battle at the Constituent, unjustly and tendentially put in the attic by historiography. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u82	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u83	Mr President, as other colleagues in my group have already said, we do not agree with this reform either in the way it has been carried out or in the way it has been done. We do not share it in the method because it is clear that there is a single person's imposition, the President-in-Office of the Council, on what must be the content of this reform. A reform that starts, precisely, from the Government, not from the Parliament, which at first reading in the Senate saw the need, by the majority party (the Democratic Party), to replace members of the Commission in order to obtain the green light, and that in this second reading has highlighted even more this attitude which is not attentive to what must be a democratic debate within this House: a debate that did not take place in the Commission, as it was supposed to be, because it has gone further and has arrived directly in the Chamber. This decision was taken and imposed by the President-in-Office of the Council solely because in the Commission the numbers for its approval were not there and he wanted to make this force in the belief that, bringing the measure here, those senators of the Democratic Party who have repeatedly expressed their perplexities would bend, would accept a compromise to the bottom, forced by an act of force of the President-in-Office of the Council who at this moment imposes on everyone his will with the threat of elections, of a government crisis, of not reclaiming those who will allow themselves to disagree. This attitude is shameful because we are not talking about an ordinary law, but about the text of our Constitution which concerns the life of the institutions and the relationship that must exist in a country between citizens and the state apparatus, institutions and state. It is therefore a text of particular importance that was to be shared, to see an in-depth debate at the most appropriate place (which was the Commission), on which we had to move not through the methods of threat, blackmail or the acquisition of consent, as unfortunately we have the feeling that it is happening. These days, in fact, Parliament does not appear to be an institutional seat, but a different place, a market in which we are trying to obtain those votes that are missing for the adoption of a completely inadequate reform. The current debate is a debate that does not appeal to citizens, who now have much more serious problems to deal with, so there is also a great deal of disenchantment. It seems like a useless and sterile debate for professionals [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] , but in reality we are discussing important issues, we are talking about the possibility for the citizen to make choices with respect to his own representatives, about his relationship with the State, that is, those who govern us, who impose the choices, who decide them through legislative activity. I believe that this is the most serious and worrying fact. There are many aspects of this reform that we do not share, have expressed and will continue to do in this tired debate, but I would like to address one: the relationship between the electorate and the government. We all have the feeling that we are moving towards a model of democracy in which the vote of the citizens no longer counts for anything, on the European model. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] However, there is a small problem. When the European Parliament was born, which then had no legislative power and did not even now, the impact for Europe on the life of all of us was very relative; in time, however, its ability to determine important choices has increased, but the possibility of enacting laws by the European Parliament has not increased, indeed we are still in the hands of a Commission which is essentially represented by ministers appointed by the European governments without a direct - elective - relationship with the communities, with the citizens who should be represented by these institutions. Therefore, that model has little democracy and it seems that the Italian Government, first with the Delrio reform that affected the Provinces, then with the electoral law of the Chamber of Deputies and today with the reform of the Senate, goes in the same direction. We have seen it with the Provinces, where the apparatus has remained, many skills will remain, albeit with absolutely inadequate resources to make the services work. The only change was to prevent citizens from electing their representatives. Then we also had another passage, which was the approval of the law for the election of the representatives of the House, in which Renzi wanted to do one very simple thing: to give himself, as secretary of the Democratic Party, the opportunity to impose a reform in which he will have the possibility to indicate the leaders list of his party (and, therefore, to control the elected), with the hope of winning the elections as a single party and therefore to determine a sufficient majority to govern this Parliament and this country, always subtracting the citizens the possibility of electing their representatives. And so, even in the reform of the Senate, the only passage that cannot be modified, as Renzi said on more than one occasion, is the direct election of the representatives of the citizens. This is the only firm point that the Premier is interested in being maintained in this reform. From there it does not move and does not accept compromises, always in this vision in which democracy must be reduced and limited; in which citizens must no longer directly elect their representatives; in which there must be a concentration of powers in the hands of a few people and few key figures; in which local autonomy must be reduced and no longer give the opportunity to the territories to express their will, their representatives, their intentions and their aspirations for freedom and autonomy. This is a model in which we do not recognize each other. The battle will continue in Parliament and could lead to a referendum if this reform is adopted. It is clear that, on the one hand, Renzi will use a very easy argument to obtain consensus among citizens and to obtain a favourable vote: the reduction in the number of senators. For God's sake, the reduction in the number of parliamentarians is a battle that we have waged in the past for the reform of devolution: we carried it out about ten years ago and it was certainly not us who blocked it, but the left, who mobilized their voters to reject it. We carried it forward in the first reading of this text, in which we had asked for half, not only of the senators, but also of the MPs; and the Democratic Party opposed: Renzi opposed this change. However, a constitutional reform cannot be reduced to this single issue because, when a law takes away the right to elect its representatives to citizens, it is difficult to go back. It could be a point of no return. Once these initiatives are pursued, it will be difficult to return to a system in which the citizen is the main actor of democracy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That is our greatest concern. We believe in a democratic system in which the electoral citizen must be able to elect his own representatives, he must have the opportunity to influence the choices of the government and he must be able to influence, through the referendum, the structural reforms that affect the lives of all of us. This model does not exist in Europe. We have seen how we entered the euro, without anyone being asked about it, with an imposition. And we see it, even recently, at a time when it is difficult to collect signatures on a subject that concerns the lives of citizens, such as the reform of the Fornero law, when the Court, which will then be elected by a government consisting essentially of a single party, a single President of the Council, a single party secretary, will have a huge power in these choices. Democracy and participation are being avoided through this reform. We do not share anything and we still ask that the holder of the right to vote be the citizen, who must be able to vote for his representatives. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is not democracy, but the beginning of the creation of a regime in which we are falling and into which we are starting. Perhaps you will win this battle in Parliament - a battle that we will also fight outside this House, when there is a referendum - but we want it to remain in the acts that there are political forces within this House that, by not sharing this authoritarian vision, are opposed. The citizens, when they realize what is happening and what they are giving up, will at least bear witness that there have been senators and parliamentarians who have fought for democracy, freedom and autonomy, which are for us the founding values of this Republic and this State, which you are calling into question irreparablely. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u84	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in the face of the vote of the government majority alone, I look back to the 556 elected on 2 June 1946 and to the approval of the Constitution in December 1947, which then saw only 62 no. I do not know, this time, how the vote on the reform of the Constitution will go, but surely there is a clear need to reflect on how we are deciding to amend it. We were and are all agreed that reforming the perfect bicameralism was important to speed up the process of passing laws in this nation. We all agree that perfect bicameralism had no reason to exist, so that over the years - both right-wing and left-wing - we have tried to amend the Constitution, but the way we are getting there this time is certainly not the best, especially as political majorities, especially parliamentary ones, are forming in approving this reform. The Senate, if it is to remain alive, must do so with precise functions and an important constitutional value: otherwise, if it is to be a post-work job for mayors and Presidents of the Region, I do not think it useful to keep such an important institution alive. As several colleagues have said this morning, I do not see very much the possibility of regional councillors or regional presidents coming here to Rome to attend Senate sessions. Moreover, in their municipalities they will not even have time to look around, as well as those who have experience as mayor, so I do not see where they should find the time - even more so in the case of large cities - to exercise this parliamentary activity. Even from the point of view of the economic savings that one wants at all costs to flag, there is to think: the missions of the Presidents in the Regions and regional councillors, when they come here to Rome, I do not think they will be free, but at the expense of those same Regions that in recent years have contributed much to the birth of anti-politics. It is precisely because of the behaviour of the various regional councillors in the regional institutions that anti-politics was right about good politics and those who have always made a policy for social commitment, because they believed in something. Looking back on the previous passage to the Senate, although I was then part of another parliamentary group, I didn't think it would be useful for our nation to vote on a constitutional reform measure so blunt, null and meaningless. I am sorry for all those colleagues who today are crying out for dictatorship and for something unfair and who, when we were the ones shouting for it in these classrooms, thought on the contrary - alas - that they were part of a reform process of which they themselves are today unaware of existence. We therefore also want to understand what has changed between yesterday, between when a large political party announced this constitutional reform as important and today, when - we note - that same party speaks of dictatorship. I think it would be appropriate to leave out so many passages. In particular, apart from the amendments which we will be tabling as a group and which will not be many, we hope that some of our proposals will be appreciated and taken into account by the majority. This is an important constitutional reform, combined with an electoral law that has been voted on by an important part of the Italian centre-right, which has thus made another mistake. It is the same political part that today speaks of dictatorship and that today - like everyone else - recognizes that at the time, unfortunately, we had seen right, when within that political formation we were shouting that a mistake was being made. So I do not know whether the combination of this constitutional reform and the new electoral law will actually give our beautiful Italy the just and democratic balances that we have always boasted to have, because the Italian Constitution has been a boast for many. I do not believe that the confirmation referendum will give the result that all those who do not see the reform with good eye expect, since the anti-politics, the choices and some actions of the regional councils lead to look at politicians as if they were all the same and they all had the same way of thinking and seeing things. As the Conservative and Reformist Group, Mr President, we will be fighting in this House, with our amendments, in the belief that something still can be done. We hope that in the Senate Chamber there will not be yet another Congress of the Democratic Party, which sees two opposing factions, which, however, as someone said before, bark, but do not bite. Our hope is that in this House we can instead put aside the political currents and work to reform the Constitution in the best possible way. Certainly our position, if certain amendments are accepted, may be different from the one we had at the time of the vote during the first reading of the reform, when we left the Chamber. Obviously we will not have to stop at a fake elective Senate because, as we all saw last night, when there still had to be a minimal opening, there was an appreciation immediately, so it is only a facade operation to find reasons to be together. If there are indeed changes in course and some of our amending proposals - such as the one for the tax ceiling in the Constitution or other important improvements in the South - are accepted, we think we can make a contribution to this reform. If this is not the case, our opposition will be clear and tough, but it will always be done democratically in Parliament's classrooms. Certainly outside Parliament we will try to bring our position up as far as possible, because we believe that such a wrong and unstructured reform will not make any contribution. It remains the regret of those who allowed this reform to be voted on and approved at first reading when, instead, they should have opened up some second thoughts that were always there in the spirit of the next day, and that therefore do not serve anything, while already at the time it was necessary to put in place everything possible to improve the Constitution. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u88	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, a message has come from the Foreign Affairs Committee saying that the sitting of the Commission is convened at 1 p.m., in line with the work of this House. Does it confirm that the House will not pause until 13.30 and that the Commission will only be able to convene after 1.30 p.m.? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, Senator Airola. As this call is incompatible, we will inform the Foreign Affairs Committee that the House will work until 1.30 p.m. She is registered to speak Senator Fabbri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u89	Mr President, it is difficult to intervene in the area of constitutional reform by avoiding rhetoric, repetitions and commonplaces. I will, I say it with great honesty, not appealing to legal assessments, not being a jurist, but recalling me to political reasons, always keeping in mind that our reference are and must be the citizens and our country. I shall then try briefly to reconstruct the path that has been taken so far, starting with the long-standing need to carry out a revision of the Constitution in its second part. A necessity that has its roots in the past, even glorious, and that must make us feel on our shoulders the weight of a responsibility not to be ignored. I am referring to Mr Nilde Iotti, whom I would like to mention here in the account by Giorgio Frasca Polara, his spokesperson, so that we can clearly perceive the topicality of his reflection, which, for us, is at the same time a reminder of responsibility for this reformist challenge. A challenge that can boast such a noble guarantor. Iotti did not waste time making it clear that he intended to consider the House Presidency not as a trampoline but as an end: to carry on old and new battles, from a position of absolute importance and therefore I certainly listen. So, at the sights of one of the first official exits, in Piombino for the delivery of a gold medal, he gathered together the closest collaborators and said: "It is time to tackle the problem of constitutional reforms." Surprise among us for the unprecedented rise - says always Polara - worry about the echoes, some anguish for the research. And instead, Nilde took a sheet and - with the experience never forgotten of the Constituent and with the new look of President of the Assembly of Montecitorio - came certain points with his broad handwriting: enough with this absurd perfect bicameralism, enough with a thousand parliamentarians ("how much China has, but they are one billion and three hundred million"), institutionalized federalism transforming the Senate into the House of Regions and Local Authorities." An idea that expressed, as Frasca Polara always remembers, already in his inaugural speech as President of the Chamber of Deputies: that this of the reforms, even of the parliamentary regulations, was and would have been a continuum in the thirteen years, an unmatched primacy, of his Presidency, Iotti had affirmed it, with some solemnity but without yet entering into the substance, already in the settlement speech, on June 20, 1979: "To face those parts of the Constitution that time and experience have shown inadequate", "to protect in the first place the rights of minorities but also the right-duty of the majority to legislate". A commitment to the reforms so determined, that of Mr Iotti, who in fact found his natural epilogue in the Presidency of the Parliamentary Commission for the revision of the second part of the Constitution, which he covered until 1994. An abruptly interrupted commitment. From that bicameral, however, we inherit the deepest and most important warning: even those who contributed to the drafting of our Constitution, one of the most beautiful in the world, and who must therefore have also deeply loved it, recognized in its second part a "historicalization" such as to consider indispensable a revision, a modernization, because of a society that changes forcing a mutation also in the order of the Republic, in the state legal order. We are therefore preparing to achieve this change, which has seen, in the history of our Republic, several attempts, never translated as such into a constitutional reform for a differentiated bicameral model. Bicameral commissions were not lacking: Aldo Bozzi in 1983, the same lot-De Mita ten years later, the famous bicameral D'Alema in 1997; not to mention the work of the Speroni Committee, the Violant Draft of 2007. I stop here; I simply want to reiterate the need to approve this reform, also because of the need for credibility towards citizens and citizens, being a karst river in the history of our Republic. There are also reasons of different order that push us to this duty: the need for a Constitution capable, as said before, of seeing in society, even historically understood, the reference for an effective, concrete right. It is in the reality of the social body, and not in the abstract normative prediction, that the Constitution lives, changing itself, also with regard to the state order, in relation to the transformation of social relations that that same state system regulates. The advent of the European Union, which has led to the transfer of powers from the national State to the Union, has resulted in the primacy of Community law over the rules of national law, with the exception of the fundamental principles and rights guaranteed by the Constitution in its first part which, as inviolable, cannot be relegated to Community rules. Therefore, the need, as a result of this development of a European Community dimension, to implement a more rapid, streamlined legislative process, overcoming the bicameralism of equality, but rightly recognizing the importance of a Chamber representing the territorial institutions, as a result of a mature political-administrative decentralisation and therefore to be exploited, which sees this reform also addressing the node of legislative competences between the State and the Regions and the overall structure of the system of local self-government, also with the aim of making clarity on these legislative competences. It is a theme, that of the valorization of the local government, also recognized in Article 57 of the current Constitution, which also reflects that sensitivity towards the local institutions that was placed in the attention - already and also - of the constituent Assembly, questioning from then on about a different mode of representation of this second Chamber. This bill - as President Finocchiaro recalled and as many colleagues recalled - has been widely debated. The Chamber of Deputies began the examination of the bill on 11 September 2014 and concluded it on 10 March 2015. This third reading to which we are called, in accordance with the procedure, therefore becomes a decisive step towards achieving this objective. Let me remind you, in order to avoid being paradoxical today, that the constituent Assembly worked two years for the drafting of our fundamental Charter: the sessions took place between 25 June 1946 and 31 January 1948. The Government, the majority, the Democratic Party, although in the various sensibilities fortunately present, have approached the issue of constitutional revision always with the awareness of how current it is overall, but also profoundly beautiful our Constitution, fruit not only of a wise democratic work, but also of the troubled historical path twentieth century. It represents, this approval, a fundamental part in the work of reforms carried out by the Government. A path that is bearing fruit, after long years of crisis, and that must be absolutely consolidated. I am thinking of that beginning of recovery which we are witnessing, as shown by the data of the last months of the INPS, ISTAT, Confcommercio, Centro studi di Confindustria, which have improved on the employment front, and not only its quality by overcoming the forms of precariousness, and industrial production, as well as export. The measures of the Government - the jobs act, the decontributions, the "80 euros," the reform of the public administration, the rationalization of public spending, up to the good school, just to name a few - are helping, then, to fuel our renewed credibility in Europe, which will also be crucial in the management of the political match that opened with Brussels in view of the next very important law of stability, in order to be able to realize a policy finally expansionary and based on investments, as well as the cutting of taxes in the first place IMU and TASI, thanks to the recognition of greater flexibility. In the light of this picture, even of economic and productive restart, it is difficult to understand, in the eyes of the citizen, the debate that has been monopolizing the public debate on constitutional reform for weeks. A debate that is likely to be perceived as an arm of a political character, fought with blows of difficult technicalism (who works on the territory knows what we are talking about) that, although important in the parliamentary classrooms, are less important in the daily lives of our communities. I read my speech very quickly given the timing of the debate. I have heard, however, from several colleagues, of political responsibility, of renewed public confidence in the political class. I believe that the decision on constitutional reform is an integral part of this wish, that is, that, without any reverse, we can recover the sense of responsibility in front of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u90	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u91	Mr President, this morning, when work began in this House, the presidency of the Senate announced that harmonization of the work involved a restriction of the time from twenty to ten minutes for each speech. This statement was voiced by screaming and protesting against President Grasso's decision. It was said, by many, that such a delicate issue, such an important measure for the country, could not see the limitation of the times of discussion of each senator. She too, the President-in-Office of this House, Senator Calderoli - distracted again at this moment by the conversation with Senator Paolo Romani, who perhaps finds more interesting than I am about to say - made an intervention in which, in some way, she criticized the decision of the President of the Senato Grasso. Well, it was said that the issue is delicate, that everyone must be able to speak, that they must be able to intervene, that we must go into such a sensitive issue. We are doing this now, but the House is empty, Mr President, the House is empty! But then all that thirst, that hunger for discussion, that desire to participate, to collaborate, to listen, to reply is not there. There is no one in this House. Even the 5 Star Movement Group, to which I have always expressed great appreciation for their presence in the Chamber, currently sees a limited participation. VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. We're all here! FALANGA (AL-A). I don't see Senator Castaldi, who made an intervention this morning against the decision and is not here now. What does this mean, President? It means that the topic that is being discussed today in this House, in talk shows, in bars, among the people (elective Senate, non-elective Senate, Senate directly elected by the citizens, otherwise composed Senate), is a theme that is not passionate. You know why he's not passionate? When there was the first reading of this text I was under that threshold (I had not left the Chamber, I was absent and I had arrived at that time) and I was not passionate, I had not felt interested in participating in a discussion limited to determining whether the Senate should be composed of senators directly elected by the people or by designated senators, appointed by the regional councils. Now, if I wasn't passionate about this issue, it probably isn't even all the absent colleagues; and we're right. The absentees are right and I was right not to be passionate about this issue. It is an insignificant, surpassable and, if you will excuse me, stupid theme. The motivations of those who claim the need for a Senate elected by the people and refer to the articles of the Constitutional Charter and to the sovereignty of the people are devoid of essence because they have no meaning. In the course of my speech, I will explain why they do not mean anything: I will not confine myself to criticism and I will try to clarify why this is a stupid issue. Before I look into the reasons why I think this issue is totally insignificant, however, I would like to address a note to the senators of the left who disagree with the party's line. I remember that the choice between monocameralism and bicameralism in the constituent assembly was - yes - an interesting issue and a topic of constitutional importance, weight and thickness, aimed at drawing the architecture of the State and marking the path that our country should have followed. I remember that the interventions of all the members of the historical left, that is, the Communist Party, went in the direction of favoring the monocameralism. For the truth, in the constituent Assembly Togliatti spoke little during the discussion on Article 55, but all the other greats - I think of La Rocca and Nobile - carried out interventions to explain the opportunity and the need for a single camera system and the writing of bicameralism. Perhaps those who disagree today have moved far away from these historical memories and from the line of those authentic communists who were part of the constituent Assembly. It seems to me that, after seventy years, the majority of government wants to eliminate a twist. Why am I talking about twisting? For a simple reason: in these years the second Chamber (I am talking about the Senate, made up of members elected by the people and therefore according to the principle of popular sovereignty) represented nothing but a brake on the development and speed of legislative processes and a deterrent to progress. Despite the attempts made to amend the Constitution (I am thinking of the bicameral Commission chaired by Mr D'Alema and other initiatives), today we are faced with the issue - yes, important - of the elimination of bicameralism. It is on this point that I want to compare myself and not on the electivity of the Senate and on the choice of having the senators elected by the people or by the regional councils. Moreover, I would remind many that this is not even a novelty, because in a speech in the constituent Assembly, Mr La Rocca, Communist lawyer of my land (of Nola, exactly), expressed himself as follows: The second Chamber had the clear and precise task of functioning as a brake, as a counterweight to prevent any excesses, precipitations, that is, legislative measures too hasty in the work of the Chamber of Deputies. The upper chamber therefore functioned as a crivellum, and eventually also as a lid. But if you really want to lay the foundations of a democratic regime that adheres to modern reality, that is, that you implement a radical transformation of the social base - because otherwise the situation will never be resolved - you have to adhere to this reality: the Single Chamber is the most suitable, the most wise to carry out the popular will and you cannot admit a second Chamber made up of privileged ones, do not forget that in our Senate there are also the privileged ones, that is those who are appointed senators for having been anointed by divine oil -- appointed from above, by people invested in the life of the office, because this would bring back the old scaffolding of the monarchy back into the Democratic Republic. That's what La Rocca said, that's what an Italian communist said. How, then, can we think today of repeating the same error by repeating duplication, albeit with different functions? Mr President, I would have been very passionate if we had talked about the functions of the Second Chamber, if we had spoken for example of assigning powers to the Senate of the Republic - however elected, it does not matter - to Article 31 or Article 32 of the Constitution, that is, to family matters and to health matters. These are themes that do not have a conclusion that starts and moves from a leading position of the leader party. If we had dealt with these issues, I would have been passionate. On the other hand, the eligibility of the Senate by the people or by the regional councillors, perhaps I will not be passionate, but I am not at all passionate; and those who do so do not do so because they really believe that the central focus of the matter is that, but they do it only to prevent a path. I as a senator of the Republic, regardless of my belonging, even if the request came from the devil, I would have said that I do not have the courage and that I do not have the possibility, that I do not owe in the interests of the Italians, I do not have to respect my intelligence, I do not have to in the awareness of being a father and of having to guarantee my children to live in a democratic country to prevent a gentleman, that I like or that I do not like, to make a renewed path of the architecture of the State of my country. I shall confine myself here because I have been granted ten minutes in connection with the harmonization of time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You've already used 12, Senator Falanga. FALANGA (AL-A). Thank you. There are many other considerations that I would like to develop in this House, which I hope will be fuller, fuller and more careful on the part of the senators, at least present in the explanation of vote, which I would like to express my wish for the political strength to which I adhere, with which I have been confronted and which I have shared with my comments made at the outset during my brief speech, I would like to entrust myself. I can still speak in the explanation of vote and I can say something else really interesting about the subject that we are dealing with. [[Applause from Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u92	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u93	Mr President, I would like to refer to the last two speeches, starting with Mr Fabbri's, who did not by chance mention Nilde Iotti's will to reform. I am pleased that you mentioned exactly your words, saying that what needs to be done in this country was to put in close, from a legislative point of view, the two Chambers. With a Chamber, which was born as perfectly equal to the other from the point of view of the norm and the institution, making it what is now mandatory we provide to build, that is to say, fully owner of an effective dialectical relationship with the Government of the Republic and with the Lower House. What has happened - and we have to be very honest - in the course of these first changes made first to the Senate and then to the House in relation to the text that has been presented to us and to the text that has passed to the Commission, leaves us with some concerns. On the one hand - entering into the substance of the requests made earlier by Senator Zizza - I think it can be said that, following the work of the Chamber of Deputies, the will to make the regions and local authorities more capable of their own local legislative activity is being highlighted. I quote, in relation to Article 116 of the Constitution, the inclusion of the possibility for the Regions of further forms and special conditions of autonomy for active labour, education and vocational training policies. Similarly, the amended text in the House carries out a more democratic task where it enters into the substance of Parliament's legislative procedure, going to include the vote on a certain date and the priority inclusion on the agenda of the laws indicated and requested by the Government. Similarly, the pre-emptive judgment of constitutional legitimacy for electoral laws by the Constitutional Court sees the quorum reduced from a third to a quarter of the members of the Chamber of Deputies. These are three legislative changes that seem to guarantee an increasingly democratic process, with a strengthening of the role of local self-government. Unfortunately, what I believe is in contradiction with these principles and should therefore be corrected in the text in our examination is the reduction of the powers and potential of the future Senate. This happens in several articles, for example in the new Article 78 of the Constitution, in which the declaration of the state of war no longer requires an absolute majority decision by the Senate, and in Article 83 concerning the quorum for the election of the President of the Republic. As a result of the changes made by the House of Deputies, the electoral weight of the Senate falls to 14% of the total, against a quota of more than 30%, which would have had with the approval of our legislative provision. In addition, the House text reduces the need for the assembly and democratic principle, in order to carry out a reasoning about the figure to be elected, that can - why not? - be the result of a debate and debate in this House and in the Commission, which are inevitable and necessary, precisely because they are truly democratic, in relation to the number of ballots planned for the election by qualified majority of the President of the Republic, which in the text we are considering now are only seven and not nine, as we indicated. The same is true of the judges of the Constitutional Court: here too there is a specific contraction in the role of the future Senate of the self-governments. We predicted that there were three judges appointed by the Lower House and two judges appointed by the Upper House of the Senate. All this, with the prospect of Parliament's election in common sitting, brings us back to the proportion we know, with 95 senators versus 6,600 Members. There is also a huge reduction in the legislative potential of the Senate. The worst thing is that from the decision-making point of view, the future Senate will not have the title to express itself on two rules of particular importance, which are those that identify the possibility of rejecting or modifying the judgment on European laws, also through the law of European delegation, which was previously part of equal legislation. In the same way, the approval and the request to amend the budget law, with the fundamental rules and the criteria for ensuring balance of the budget and the sustainability of public debt, was previously also part of the Senate's power; not anymore. At this point the question I ask a quasi-empty Senate is what kind of Senate we really want, because probably, whatever it is said, Renzi is right when he says that our Senate has made 62 changes, even substantial ones, that the House has made another 72 - and we see how substantial they are - and that perhaps it is worth making an overall summary asking us, in this third passage - that we hope is the last subject to changes - which is the Senate that we want to represent the local communities and the Regions. I make a very personal note, but I think I have to do it. We have not yet fully understood whether, for example, the governors, the presidents of the regions, will automatically sit in the new Senate. On the other hand, if we are talking about territorial representations, I think it is impossible, I would say, that the twenty Presidents of the Region do not sit in the Senate; this, for example, must be indicated in a slightly more precise way than has been done so far, because otherwise the perplexities remain if we speak "only" of advisers. Again, with regard to the perplexities that I have heard here, even redundantly, about the fact that this Senate is an after-work, a Chamber emptied of any effectiveness, I respond that then it would not make sense the battle carried out, which we have read for months now in the newspapers and which is even predominant in relation to the contents of the debate themselves, in relation to who will go to be part of the seventy-four senators indicated by the Regions out of ninety-five total. I believe that the contradiction lies precisely in the issues as they are raised, and that there is a lack - at least allow me to say - of clarity with respect to the future that we want. In fact, at a time when we are going to question and question the method of indirect election of regional councillors, saying things quite inverbid, such as the fact that the regional councils are automatically not representative of the people, despite the regional electoral law provides exactly the preferences, for the fact that there have been scandals, and so on. I would point out that recently in my region - I was at the time in 2012 the leader of the Democratic Party in Veneto - the only Group that came out without any observation from the Court of Auditors (the League had to return 82,000 euros; the People of Liberty 37,000 and almost all Groups) and that it did not have to return a euro was the Democratic Party. I mean that honest and dishonest people obviously exist everywhere, and that a person does not automatically become dishonest just because he sits in the benches of a Parliament. Or a region. I shall conclude, Mr President. At a time when we are asking for a further element that characterizes the recognition of the elected members who will enter the Senate - we must be clear - it means that we do not have confidence in the parliamentary assemblies and regional assemblies. From this pull or spring, from this remove and add, from this clearly not to have clarity of what we want is the institutional structure of the near future Italian Parliament, it is evident the need to come out of each one's own detail and possibly to look at this enormous work that we have assumed the responsibility to do in relation to future generations. That is precisely why I believe that we have done a very good job, although we have slowed down from the last part of the House's work, and I ask colleagues to include a Senate of the autonomous and not of the Republic, a Senate that clarifies and strengthens the legislative power that must come from the local self-governments and the regions. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Berger and D'Anna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u94	Senator Crimi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u95	Mr President, I have not prepared a technical and detailed speech; I would like to make a slightly broader point. I would have liked to have done so in front of a rapporteur, who could perhaps have taken some inspiration, but unfortunately this opportunity has not been given to us because someone outside this House has decided on the timetable, that is, by the time we have to bring this reform home. Let us start with the idea: you have always supported, ever since we set foot in this House, that we must overcome the perfect bicameralism. It is an open, long debate that has lasted for many years, and I tell you that as a 5 Star Movement we have never argued that we cannot intervene on a change of the perfect bicameralism. This is the first hire, and I'd like it to be clear. You want to change the perfect bicameralism because someone claims that there are difficulties in the process of formation of the laws (then in the end I'll tell you also why they may not be there). However, if that is the problem, it must be said that it is fundamentally linked to trust, to the fact that it must receive the trust of both Houses. Therefore, having two elected Chambers with different active and passive electorates and therefore having different majorities (in one there is the majority prize, while in the other there is) means that the Government, which should govern and give political direction, should go to one of the two Chambers and make an agreement with another political force (that's what happened here), while in the other House has an absolute majority. This forces the government to have to ask for confidence in another political force and with that to freeze its political program. If this is the problem, it was enough simply to eliminate the relationship of trust that the Senate has with the Government and differentiate the competences on some subjects, thus avoiding the perfect bicameralism on all subjects. I am making assumptions about how we could work well for a reform that was shared in the true sense of the word; a reform on which perhaps you would also have found our total support. I was talking about differentiating competences on certain subjects: some could have been predicted to be the exclusive competence of the Senate, others of the House; the rest would have been worked in parallel. The Senate, however, should not have expressed political confidence, therefore, after giving its political address with its majority to the House, the Government could have come to the Senate and asked that the majority be formed from time to time on the measures according to common sense; and so perhaps on the civil unions would have found favorable the 5 Star Movement, while on the reform of the criminal process to limit the interceptions would have found the support of Forza Italia. In any case this House would not have had a relationship of trust with the Government, therefore a possible division or change of direction of the one or the other political force that supported it would not have affected the activity of the Government, because there would have been no NCD men in the Government, but they would all have been of the party that had the majority in the House, where the majority prize is provided (as already happens with the Porcellum). It could therefore have been a very limited intervention, which was going to solve to a large extent these fanciful problems related to bicameralism. It must be said that these are fantastic problems because, as our colleague Mr Martelli has explained several times, when two Chambers work in parallel, they work faster, unlike some people say. In fact, while we are working on one measure here, the other House is working on another. You think that if there were to be only one House, two measures could not be examined at the same time, but one of them would have to be queued. For example, the reform of justice that the House is examining, you could not examine it here today, because you should wait for the conclusion of the debate on reforms, on which a possible obstruction or other would lead to an extension of time. Instead, they are working on another measure in the other branch of Parliament at the moment. Is that the slowness? No, slowness is linked exclusively to the fact that, as the election of the House and Senate is structured, in the two branches of Parliament there are two different majorities and this could simply resolve by eliminating trust in one of the two chambers. The need to act as senate in these terms, so reducing it to one hundred after the regional councils' favourites, is ridiculous. If the problem was cost reduction, I wonder if we want to abolish one of the two chambers, which has been set up in this system for a total balance, simply to reduce the annual costs by a few million euros? I believe that the estimates are around EUR 90 million. Is that why? For 90 million euros we renounce democracy in this country, the democratic balance and the burdens and counterweights that saved us from dictatorships. You do all this by simply relying on your belief that a dictator will not come tomorrow (although I have the idea that maybe someone is trying to do it right now) and that a new fascism will not come. But there might also come someone who of this situation (who you are creating and placing on a silver platter) could take advantage of to restore a period that we wanted to cancel and that our constituent fathers wanted to cancel, including in the Constitution all the elements to prevent it from returning. Today you are erasing all the obstacles that had been foreseen in it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You get angry when we say you're fascists and that Renzi is doing the same things Mussolini did. [[Comments of the senators Di Giorgi and Fabbri.]] But you must not be angry about this, but because you are preparing the way for today, for tomorrow or for when it will happen, for a new fascism. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's what you're doing. You are removing those obstacles that the constituent Fathers had put to avoid repeating that historical period. That is what you are doing. Take this into account. When this moment comes perhaps you will be elderly, and you will no longer be MPs or senators, but your children will remember that we are in that situation because someone has removed the few obstacles that had been put up, by people much more enlightened than us, to avoid going back to that dark period. And unfortunately, we could go back to that dark period someday. Don't always assume people are good. And even if Renzi thinks he's the best person in the world, don't assume that tomorrow doesn't come after Renzi, one that's worse than him. Don't take it for granted! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u96	Colleagues, as anticipated, the sitting is suspended. The House will meet again at 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1.35 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) Colleagues, the session is resumed. Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is my intention to speak on a subject which has not been thoroughly analysed in this process of reform of the Constitution and which concerns in particular one aspect of Title V, namely the new division of legislative powers between the State and the regions. This is an issue that has been neglected at both media and political level and that unfortunately deserved much more attention, which instead has been dedicated to others, probably for more media reasons. It would have deserved much more attention, because it is perhaps the only one that concerns citizens most, namely the functionality of the public administration, the ways in which the different divisions of the State can respond to their needs and the exercise of competences by the different levels of government. What I would like to focus on is, first of all, the new division of legislative competence between the State and the Regions, a new competence which was introduced to amend the Constitution adopted in 2001, which instead - as is well known - provided for a tripartition between the State, the concurrent matter and the Regions. To this tripartition is replaced a bipartition, in which only the State and the Regions remain, while the concurrent matter has been divided as an exclusive matter assigned to the state level or as an exclusive matter assigned to the Regions. Many of the competences that, in the version we are discussing, are assigned to the exclusive competence of the State are, however, limited to general and common provisions. I would therefore like to focus on this point, asking for the attention of my fellow Members, because I think that perhaps it would deserve further consideration. We already talked about this last year at the first reading in the Senate, but both then and during the reading of the House the problem was not addressed, which may seem simply linguistic, but it is not. Further changes have been introduced to the House, which, as far as possible, have exacerbated concerns over this speech. I will therefore focus on this non-secondary aspect, because the general and common provisions, in the current version we are debating, relate to health protection policies, social policies, food security, tourism, the government of the territory: in short, to a number of very important matters, which concern what citizens expect to see from public administration as regards services provided or regulation and its functions, and very useful. Well, this new diction - not only in my opinion, but also in other technicians of constitutional law much more authoritative than me - is not only new, and therefore new, but - according to what the Department of Studies of the Senate says - seems not to be able to solve the problems, because it is not unlike the current version or the concurrent competence. And, above all, it is not the only new phrase that is included in the Constitution, which - as I will try to illustrate - will lead to some problems. This is an unprecedented diction because, until now, constitutional jurisprudence has expressed elaborations with regard to two very precise classifications, which are the fundamental principles, which currently the current Constitution reserves for all competing subjects, and the general rules, which refer mainly to issues relating to education. The new definition "General and common provisions" will produce new uncertainty in the future and I do not think we should use conditionalism, because it is certain that this will be the case. The problem is just to understand the size of the uncertainty that will arise. We have overcome, and perhaps even rightly so - I do not want to judge this - the competing matter, because it was considered to be the cause of conflict and litigation between the different levels of government. But, unfortunately, the general and common provisions are intended to create a new uncertainty, not unlike the previous one and perhaps even wider. Precisely for this reason, if we go to review what has happened since the constitutional reform of 2001, which introduced concurrent legislation, when for some matters the fundamental principles or general norms provided for in the Constitution were not yet in some cases defined by the central level, that is, by the State, we note that, in a first phase, with respect to the disputes that had been determined, the Constitutional Court has expressed itself considering, from time to time, the lack of fundamental principles or general norms a reason to allow the Regions to adopt their own discipline. This has been the case in many judgments of 2002, 2003 and 2004 relating - for example - to specific health problems, but not only. Subsequently, other judgments of the Constitutional Court on further issues - for example on education issues - were expressed in opinions which were profoundly different from the former, because it was considered that the absence of state discipline was a reason to prevent the exercise by the regions of the legislative power assigned to them. So, although there is currently a case law that clarifies the old dictionaries and locutions already present in the Constitution, we are faced with a period, unfortunately long - we know that this has lasted over a decade - in which we will have to clarify what are the general and common provisions. And we do not need a new season of unclear and uncertain changes, formulations that are not clear enough to allow, in the meantime, to minimize the conflict between levels of government and the different regional administrations, which can legislate in a very differentiated way. This may seem like a linguistic problem, but the general and common provisions - at least for what I have understood and I think we have to say - were born as a linguistic compromise in the face of the need to share the shared competence between the State and the Regions and the difficulty of reaching a substantial agreement on what was attributed exclusively to the State and what was attributed exclusively to the Regions: a little more centralism, a little more decentralisation. I think that - just as international history and experience teach us - the pendulum that goes from time to time more towards the center and a little more towards the regions shows that it depends on the context in which the division of competences between the different levels of government is located. But what is probably more important is that we avoid any form of uncertainty in the attribution of competences and, when the speech is so generic and new, uncertainty is generated. This has a consequence that - in my opinion - we cannot underestimate, because even in this case the past years and history teach us that, faced with an uncertainty of the legislation, the regions technically and politically more prepared go ahead and manage to legislate, perhaps even in the absence of an expression of the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, the technically and/or politically less prepared regions remain behind, which is what we have unfortunately seen too many times already: an increase in inequality in discipline, in the capacity for government and regulation for different regions. Not only do we create uncertainty and inequality, but we add to this new speech a number of other phrases that I simply list. In addition to this novelty there are, in fact, six other indications present in the current version: provisions of principle, fundamental principles, rules of coordination, general order profiles, norms aimed at ensuring uniformity on the national territory and general principles. So there is a situation that goes beyond the merely linguistic fact and that could be a cause for great concern for the coming years. How can this be addressed? I have tabled an amendment to choose one of the many possible solutions that does not give rise to uncertainties. I am going back to saying that the problem is not to choose either solution, but to choose one that will guarantee that the distribution is made in a less uncertain and confused way than, on the other hand, in the current formulation is expected. The last issue I would like to address very quickly is the coherence between the allocation of powers and the allocation of resources. We also have some experiences in this regard that tell us that, especially at times of major crisis in public finance and restrictions for local authorities in their budgets, it is important that, for some of the tasks to be carried out, resources are allocated with a bound purpose. For too many years, we have felt that the absence of a bound destination produced more efficiency and capacity than decentralised bodies to make the best use of resources and to administer public funds in a more useful way. In fact, we have noticed that this gives rise to distractions of resources compared to essential levels and more. On both these two issues, I think that perhaps it would be worth thinking in a way that is not a preliminary, but useful in order to make public administration work better. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u98	Senator De Siano is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with these brief reflections I would like to make a contribution to the debate on constitutional reform, contextualizing the synthesis in the economic and social context of our country in recent months. President Renzi recently said that citizens are calling for reforms and for them to be speeded up. Surely the status quo is no longer sustainable and the Italians expect strong interventions for the real economy to be reactivated and the living conditions can quickly improve, after too many years of economic constraints and sacrifices. I do not know which cities the President of the Council has visited lately, but what emerges strongly from the Italian squares is an appeal for work and for the reduction of taxes. It is a cry for help from entrepreneurs who have to face up to an asphyxiating bureaucracy and a predator tax. It is a request for help from families who, year after year, are finding it increasingly difficult to pay their children's tuition or to make a medical examination. The discomfort of young people who fail to enter the labour market or agree to be underpaid emerges to ensure a small and ephemeral gratification and economic independence. In this House, however, and in the House before, we have been forced for weeks to subordinate our work to the requirements of the Permanent Congress of the Democratic Party on Constitutional Reform. And we could make the same speech about the reform of the electoral law, which has been finally approved. It could be objected that the government's activity has not been limited to these matters, because it has been approved the jobs act, the reform of the public administration, the monthly bonus of 80 euros, it unlocks Italy and more. It could be argued, for many reasons, that institutional and constitutional reforms are factors of modernization of the country system necessary and no longer postponed. These are reforms that have been the subject of study and reflection for decades, and also many attempts at approval which have been wrecked for various causes. Certainly persuasive arguments the former, but only if we limit ourselves to a superficial reading of newspaper headlines. A little more careful analysis of the data reveals, in fact, that, in our country, the unemployment rate in July is still 12%, and the youth rate exceeds 40%. Investments are blocked and, in the second quarter of this year, the construction sector is falling by almost 2% compared to the same period of 2014. General government expenditure is constantly increasing, as is public debt, which has reached 2,199 billion (increased by 135 billion since the Renzi Government was established). Government chatter is smoky and inconsistent in the face of numbers that show a sadly worse reality than ads. These are figures that demonstrate the lack of courage of government reforms, hesitant at best; often, on the other hand, ill-designed and out-of-targeted and inevitably forerunners of null or disappointing results. Suffice it to mention the reform of the Provinces. It is also acceptable - as I said - that we should make some changes to our Constitution and the institutional system. It is not by chance that the centre-right has already written, ten years ago, a courageous constitutional reform, blocked in the end by the preconceived propaganda of the center-left that has negatively influenced the confirmation referendum. For these reasons, while confirming the urgent need to respond to the problems most closely afflicting our fellow citizens, Forza Italia has made itself available to the constitutional dialogue with the majority and with the Government, in the true conviction that the rules of the game must be rewritten with the participation of all political forces, in a climate of constructive and democratic confrontation. But soon - alas - the Democratic Party, led by President Renzi, proved to be very unprone to high-level political debate. Perhaps the genesis of this Executive could already anticipate something. I would remind you that Renzi took the office of President of the Council at the beginning of last year, following an internal decision of the Democratic Party which, in fact, distrusted the government in office chaired by Enrico Letta. Third President of the Council not elected by the Italians, after Monti and Letta himself, once again assumed power not the one who was democratically chosen by the citizens, but a personality designated through dark mechanisms of palace and party games. Palace mechanisms recur once again today, when President Renzi and his emissaries in Parliament put into practice a real buying campaign, denied by the Democratic Party but in the eyes of all, to guarantee themselves sufficient votes to approve, at any cost and with any majority, this constitutional reform: operation obviously passed under silence, contrary to what happened in 2007 when, on the bench of the accused, there was President Berlusconi. It goes without saying, ladies and gentlemen, that criticism is not only about the political and economic context in which these reforms are carried out. Nor do they stop at the parliamentary forces that are being put in place by the majority in order to overcome the inevitable procedural obstacles. The criticisms also and above all concern the merit of this reform: we are faced with a future Senate that sees its prerogatives reduced after the transition to the House to a handful of subjects. In the few cases in which he is called into question during the legislative procedure, his opinion counts almost zero: unless a Senate resolution by absolute majority (which would require a change with the same majority in the House), Members can, in fact, keep their text unchanged by a simple majority vote, a requirement not difficult to respect considering the majority prize awarded to the list that wins the elections. Moreover, the majority party in the Chamber will have an easy life on the occasion of the election of the President of the Republic, the members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the constitutional judges of parliamentary appointment. If in the first two cases the substantial irrelevance of the votes of the hundred senators in the Parliament in common sitting remains a vulnus that drags from the first version of the draft constitutional revision, the question seems more serious with regard to the five judges of the Consulta: if the text approved by this Assembly on 8 August last year attributed to the new Senate the appointment of two constitutional judges, the Chamber has modified the prediction by establishing the election in common sitting, where it will be able to assert the superpower numerical of its six hundred and thirty members against the hundred senators. Mr President, to conclude, I would like to stress the absolute inconsistency of the issue of savings resulting from the configuration of the new Senate: we are talking about a hundred million euros compared to more than 830 billion public expenditure. Maybe the real spending review should start somewhere else. Colleagues, we are faced with a confused, disorganic and dangerous reform for the democratic balances of our country and I believe we cannot go any further. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u100	She is registered to speak Senator Di Giorgi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, what is happening in this Parliament and in this House over the last few hours is a very important event, the value of which is only blurred, but certainly not denied, by the media and political clamor about the constitutional reforms we are voting on. We must go beyond our clashes, believe in mediation and reach the final result, which is to give our institutional system the degree of order and efficiency that has been invoked by everyone for decades, without anyone ever being able to go beyond the indication of the malaise. This time we are at a crucial point because I believe that, in addition to the diagnosis of the failures of equal bicameralism and the reform of Title V of Part II of the Constitution - it must always be remembered this - this time there is also the right care, preceded by an adequate parliamentary elaboration that has been lasting for many months. This cure should be physiological in democracy and certainly not pathological in nature, as someone would like to support, demeaning the debate that we are facing these days. Is this probably an unperfect recipe? Is it still a recipe to be fixed and perfectible? The work that is being done in these hours will probably lead to a better result and certainly more welcome to the most. What we are doing has, however, an indisputable and enormous value: we are talking about a political value given by the ability of this majority and this government to keep the line of the mission for which the Executive was born, that is, to use the legislature to reform the country and save it from the drift of the structural crisis and immobilism. It is a political value testified by the fact that - I want to remind you here, because otherwise it seems that too many things are often forgotten - only nineteen months have passed since the establishment of this Government. And today we find ourselves discussing here a reform that, after being announced, is going to be realized in the planned times, despite the thousand pitfalls and conflicting interests that have accompanied it. This should be the normality of political activity, but we all know that for Italian politics to say what you want to do and do what you have said are often an exception. Sometimes, therefore, beyond the intrinsic merit of the constitutional reforms that we are voting on, there is also a surplus value. In my opinion, this is the case: the surplus value of the example is another of the concepts that I would like to illustrate, giving meaning to the things that happen and trying to get out of our debate which, sometimes, also stirs up a little ourselves. If we think about it, this majority and this government are in fact succeeding, despite incredible difficulties, in setting an example of how politics can be consistent with what is announced and explained. Allow me to add another aspect which I did not hear in the debate these days, but which had emerged in this House during the previous debate on the measure. We, the men and women who compose this Senate, in the majority, are giving an example and a new and unprecedented value to our political mission, as we are voting for the transformation of the very institution in which we were elected and for which we work. This is also not a obvious or trivial passage. In fact, at the beginning of the debate, no one believed it. All in all, the senators could never have voted for the "abolition" or the downsizing of the Senate itself. Instead, with good peace of the detractors, all this is about to be realized. And I believe that this message can make sense, because perhaps it will not leave indifferent the citizens who, in recent years, have received so many negative examples from politics. Today, a disheartened public opinion may have - at least this I hope - an additional reason to believe in politics and its mission. Perhaps we senators, by voting on this measure, can also put it in a context of this nature and live it as an example of this kind. The other theme is that of modernity, which is needed. In my opinion, this is a key word to be associated with the reforms that we are approving. In fact, the reform essentially aims at three results: a strong reduction of bicameralism (it is not abolished, but it is redefined); a moderate, but necessary, strengthening of the powers of the Government, in order to be able to govern better, and a - hopefully - definitive definition of the relations between the State and the Regions, which closes the twenty-year season of federalist propaganda fed by the right; a propaganda, however, that has had a bit of insight into the left, a left that has interpreted it badly, producing a multiplication of the centers of expenditure and the decision-making bodies of the country, in exchange for an increased inefficiency of the system as a whole (what we compare daily). Correcting these distortions and achieving these three results is - in my opinion - a sign of great modernity. Perhaps this is not perceived by the citizens, distracted by the media clamour of the clashes, by those who quarrel with whom, how much, at what time, etc., but I would also say by the political comparisons that such delicate matters have inevitably produced. Reaching these results means having managed to interpret the spirit of time, which precisely requires modernity and demand functionality of the institutions, which in all forms, unfortunately also those of anti-politics, reach those who govern and who represent the demands of the citizens. This is, therefore, also a great response to this, in my opinion. These reforms innovate the Constitution and adapt it harmoniously to the needs of a modern state, which has given sovereignty to a supranational institution such as the European Union. I say that it has proudly given sovereignty to a supranational institution such as the European Union and, therefore, it needs even more to find slim in legislative procedures, precisely for the daily confrontation with the other States and with the European Union. Effectiveness must be achieved in the action of government and adequate representativeness of the territories. These reforms are a sign of the modernity of politics, on which the majority, though with some distinction, bet and believe. It is on these reforms that the oppositions, instrumental, have found the confirmation of a certain sterility of the intervention, that fil rouge that basically holds together a large part of the protests and counterpositions nourished so far. After all, it is a question of conservation, a search for conservation, of keeping things as they are, because Italy has always managed so well or badly and will continue to get away with it, without seeing well that the world has totally changed and that we must adapt ourselves, even by retouching our great Constitutional Charter, which we all have in our hearts, minds and souls. In the end, this change of the Constitution will also have the merit - certainly, secondary - of showing how instrumental, falsely ideological or simply useless the majority of the political opposition to this reform project has been, opposed for reasons not always noble or for particular interests, rather than going on the subject. On the other hand, the substance of the measure has been at the heart of an action that must be credible. And that is precisely what I believe is essentially what has happened, namely a policy, certainly represented by those who believe in this reform, which has been able to listen to and take on the reflections that all, majority and opposition of all kinds, have made on this measure. This listening action has been very important, because it has done good for the reform and I consider it another victory not taken for granted, which in some way must be celebrated. This process is active and we will hopefully arrive in a few days to have a positive result. I am speaking basically of a victory, because I am referring to a principle by which majority and opposition are confronted on the merits of things, but without reaching the point of neutralizing the final decision, producing only downward compromises or an endless delay. All this makes us perhaps enter into normality: I'm probably a great fool, but I want to hope so. This is a principle that has not been applied for years, but for decades, but at this stage it happens that we have said that a reform would take place and we are actually doing it. Looking away from our detail and raising it in an imaginary way to watch, as a whole, the progress of the action of the Government and Parliament in the nineteen months I was talking about, would clearly see the effort and the reformist alacrity, of which they had also lost the hopes of their happening. There is no area of public life that does not or does not exist to be subject to it. There is no institution or public administration that has not been involved in unprecedented work due to intensity and results. I understand that this is annoying to a lot of people, both inside and outside, but it's reality, it's what's happening. It is a season that probably, once purified by polemics and political oppositions, will still be a watershed between the governments of the past and the governments of the future. Sometimes we say to fellow Members, even smiling, that this seventeenth legislature will act as a watershed. I therefore want to highlight the concept of responsibility. [[Call the president back.]] I should like to conclude, Mr President, and I would ask you to attach the full text of my speech. I was interested in thinking about the concept of responsibility, in the light of what I said earlier. It is therefore important that our responsibility is put in place. I like to close with a quote - I hope I will be allowed - by Piero Calamandrei: we who deal with school and education feel very close or at least we love him very much. Calamandrei, a constituent father, said about the Constitution: The Constitution is not a machine that once set in motion goes on for itself. The Constitution was written by Calamandrei in 1955, once far away, but perhaps never so close is a piece of paper, I let it fall and it does not move. To move, you have to put the fuel in it every day. We must put in our commitment, our spirit, our will to keep these promises and above all our responsibility. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u102	The Presidency shall authorise it to attach the full text of its speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u103	Senator Lucherini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u104	Mr President, I think that we are all aware that this second passage of constitutional reform in the Senate is decisive, in which to arrive at a summary, which then leads to the adoption at second reading also in the House of Deputies, and then to the referendum in spring, in order to get citizens to approve the work that the two Chambers have done in recent months. This was an almost dead legislature: all colleagues will remember the days of the election of the President of the Republic, with the lack of election before and the acceptance of the reconfirmation of President Napolitano. At that moment we made a commitment, in the Chamber gathered, in front of the speech that he made, at the time of the acceptance of his re-election, President Napolitano, when he said he would accept, but provided that institutional reforms had been approved. That was, in fact, the only condition for which, according to the President, he would accept the re-election in the face of open problems in our country. From there the legislature is divided, and it is clear that if we fail to reform, the legislature will close and we will vote again. And it is right that, if we fail, this should happen, that we should return to the voters. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Bravo! Mr Lucherini (PD). We are faced with the need to overcome an institutional framework which has been obsolete for many years. The perfect bicameralism was also a value in our country [[Comments of the Senator Council]] ==References====External links== But it was an arrangement that was born of a particular condition because, when the Constitution was approved by the constituent Assembly, we had international conditions that saw the world divided into two blocks; we came out of war, from fascism. We were a country that had a political anomaly, which then marked all the years of the First Republic, that is the fact that the greatest opposition party, although it gained great consensus arriving - as the PC arrived at the time - up to 34 percent of the votes, could not govern, however; it could not compete to direct the country, so that the majority groups were pre-constituted around a single party. This condition has failed with the fall of the Berlin Wall, but it has given us a condition: to have numerous parliamentary assemblies, a perfect bicameralism, a centrality of the elected assemblies and weak governments. In the First Republic the governments had an average duration of six months and the crises were all consumed within the same majority. These conditions, which went well up to that point, until the 1990s, then became a hindrance, a burden, an impediment to Italy to play an effective and important role. From that moment on, we began to discuss the need for reform and we arrive at it with twenty-five years' delay and, therefore, we cannot continue to say that we must wait, pick up, reflect. This is a reform that has matured in our country for some decades; a reform that puts at the centre the need of our country to have a strong government, legislature governments, stable governments as happens in other countries. I don't think it's a disgrace that Germany, a country that was also defeated by the war, like us, if Merkel were re-elected, has two Presidents in the government for over thirty years. And I don't think Germany is a less democratic country than Italy or other countries. Yet, it has a single House that gives confidence and has Presidents who are elected and govern permanently. We are the only country in the European Union - it has been said by many in this House - which still has two Chambers that give confidence. This issue needs to be resolved. I believe that the division between us is not between those who want to overcome bicameralism and those who do not want to overcome it, but between those who do not want Italy to start having stable, strong and legislative governments and those who continue to think that it is more democratic to have weak governments. I do not believe that Tsipras, who won the election for the second time with 36%, takes the majority and will rule the country in the coming years, is a champion of democracy. I do not believe, however, that we deny democracy if we adopt an electoral law that gives the House a majority with 40% and provides for the ballot if we reach 36%; nor do I believe that with constitutional reforms and electoral law we deliver to the Italians a less democratic country. There is certainly one point, because even in the debate in this House I have heard many people say that the combined arrangement of overcoming perfect bicameralism and electoral reform puts the country in the hands of the leader who can have a large majority. In my opinion, the point is not in the electoral law and institutional reforms; I think there is an element of concern, but in relation to the way leadership is formed in our country and the fact that we, in addition to the Democratic Party, have parties that largely do not have a democratic order, do not have democratic guarantees or statutes. The point is precisely in the implementation of Article 49 of the Constitution, which must ensure that the parties are governed by law and that there is a guarantee that the leadership that emerges from the parties and that then the national government matures through democratic processes that must exist in all the parties of our country. I consider this to be a value and an issue to be addressed. I think it is right that we set ourselves up: a single Chamber gives confidence, approves the fundamental issues and proposals and a second Chamber represents the territorial institutions. It seems to me that there has been a broad consensus in this debate. The issues we can improve in this passage are two, the first of which relates to the functions of the Senate. Evidently in the transition to the House there was an intervention by Members who greatly reduced the prerogatives attributed to the Senate in the passage carried out in this branch of Parliament. In my view, those prerogatives must be fully restored by examining and voting on the amendments. The other issue, the one on which we have discussed more in recent weeks, is the mechanism, the way in which the new senators are elected, and I believe that this point deserves a revision mainly for one reason. In my opinion, in fact, if we continue to leave to the regional councils once elected the discussion and the decision on which of their members should be the representatives also in the Senate, we would run the risk of having a result of the election of the senators that comes downstream of a discussion regarding who will be the city council member, who the leader, who will take this or that position within the regional councils. I therefore consider it right to remove this competence from the Regional Councils and to bind them to ratification, to the approval of what is decided, giving voters the opportunity to speak with a vote, with an indication on a list that has within it the candidates to become advisors and representatives in the Senate at the same time. In my opinion, we can approve these two points these days by amending what the House has proposed, and in my opinion if we do this we will set out a reform that can be adopted in this House by a large majority, which will then be able to go to the House for ratification. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u105	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u106	Mr President, I will not use all the time I have available, because I want to explain only three basic concepts. I have listened carefully to the speeches of those who preceded me, especially from the PD benches, and I can certainly say and subscribe to my classification, which is not only mine but also my colleagues, and which emphasized my colleague Di Giorgi. Surely I also classify myself among the detractors of this revolution. That's for sure. But I also classify myself among free men and I hope that those who preceded me, and who exalted these great values, can say the same. We will then see it but, as it is airing, I do not think it is so; also because, always remembering the words of my colleague Di Giorgi, I too belong to federalist propaganda. It's a choice. That's what you call it. We are in Parliament, we can speak and everyone freely expresses their ideas with a more or less serene mind. One thing is certain, however: I am part of that federalist propaganda that at the time, when he tried to change the Constitution, did so democratically. In fact, it is always forgotten here that, at the time of the devolution or other issues that we have exalted and for which we have fought for years, there have been parliamentary passages and in the various Commissions, there has been the stage of the amendments and that of the debate, even harsh, in this House. A fierce political but democratic debate, exalting what is certainly the most important aspect, especially when you put your hand to the Constitution: democracy, debate, free thought. So, with great satisfaction, I want to classify myself among the detractors and among the men of federalist propaganda. Instead, you will have to put yourself - and I am sorry for you - among those who did not want to complete the parliamentary process in the Commission during the constitutional reform. Because the work of the Commission has been annihilated. You will be the ones who have "justified" the rapporteur, because we arrive here without a rapporteur. Constitutional reform without rapporteur. You did it, the Renzi Government. You will be those of the cleansing in the Commission of those who did not feel like the Prime Minister. Kick in the ass and go. That's the truth. [[Comments of Cardinal Senators, Cirinna and Cociancich. Applause from Senators Bottici and Bulgarelli.]] That's the difference. We are the detractors. We're the ones who did federalist propaganda. You're the ones who're gonna hand this crap over to the Italians. Because what you're doing is crap. In fact, Mr President, we are going to create a Senate that, if we had to change it this way, it was better to delete it. It's a senate that doesn't do any good. First of all, it will be a Senate of nominations. Far more authoritative people than I myself, who probably also understand little about constitutional reforms, but they say that even a blind man would see that this will be a Senate of nominations. It will be a senate that serves nothing and that you have irremediably compromised in its functions, which should be fundamental. The system of the counterweight between the majority and the oppositions is over, it no longer exists. And it was worth it, then, to permanently erase this Senate and have the courage to go through with it. But this is the thin red line that unites all your measures, method and substance. In the democratic method of Renzi, which, as I said before, includes fish in the face and defenestrations of those who do not think like the Prime Minister, unlike federalist detractors. Deliver to the Italians new laws and new reforms for which we can take for example the one you have so much flaunted and that now, to the test of the facts, is proving a vile thing: the Delrio law on the provinces. This is not just what I say, that I am a center-right exponent, but also your presidents, or supposedly such, of the province, who are now at the default. The provinces are now at their default. This is your way of operating, according to the Delrio law, that you handed over to the Italians. You have a plan, which from this point of view is admirable: to empty the local authorities of that democratic and serious political form on which we have fought for years, to return, from an organizational and legislative point of view, in practice, to the worst that has been seen in this country. An example of all: we have struggled for years to be able to democratically elect our mayors and not to put there still the usual dorks who were appointed within a closed circle; lively God, if a beautiful thing has been done in this country is the direct election of the mayor: isn't it, dear Albertini? You are the obvious proof of how well things can be done. Today we have presidents of the Province half-service, because in fact they are so, mayors who are lent to make the presidents of the Province, with a half-function. The ingenious thing, however, from their point of view, is that the president of the Province is no longer voted by the Italians but, as he once did with the mayors, he is appointed inside the secret rooms, finding too often - let me say - the man who lends himself to do the work he must do, who probably does not have a great vision from the point of view neither political nor certainly of programming, but he certainly lends himself to do other issues and the Italians are watching. This is what makes me politically perplexed. You have a drawing and, from this point of view, it is admirable how good you are at putting it into practice. I hope that what I have heard in the debate or have read in the newspapers by some representatives is truly the heritage of the whole left: if it were so, vividly, and we would miss it, we cannot all think of it in the same way; I am an invaded federalist, so I have nothing to do with your visions, but I have the clear feeling that, within the benches of my colleagues on the left, it is not exactly so. With off microphones, in fact, there are a lot of "rabbits" that I hear squeaking like this: "But in short, this Renzi is too arrogant, we are doing something that is not okay." Where are they? So let us go back to the beginning of my speech, in which I said that I certainly belong to the category of detractors, but also to free men who probably become increasingly rare in this House. But if we think about the fact that we are not making a very simple state law, but we are putting our hands on the Constitution, then something that doesn't work, from this point of view, is there. There is one thing, however, on which I agree with Renzi, who is right in declaring that our country has been waiting for this reform for seventy years, in the face of the constituent Fathers. He said so, but why do I agree? Since I am deeply territorialist, I have allowed myself to table an amendment concerning two small provinces at the borders of the empire, the Province of Sondrio and that of Belluno, thanks to the abbreviation given to us by Prime Minister Renzi, when he says that we have to put back what was wrong by the constituent Fathers, because then a scorn was made. They recognized themselves, in fact, as autonomous Provinces exclusively those of Trento and Bolzano, excluding the other twins of Sondrio and Belluno, who had the same characteristics. If anyone had the will and the time to go and read - as I did - the chronicles of the debate that was done at the time, he could see the words used by my much more illustrious countryman, Vanoni - peace to his soul - who intervened on that occasion, claiming this position. Then I say to Renzi: "I agree with you. You give autonomy to Sondrio and Belluno and I, as a good mountainer, align myself and vote for you reform. I really want to see if he can live up to what he said on Friday. It'll be very difficult. I hope that at least my colleagues from the Provinces of Sondrio and Belluno subscribe to my amendment - Mirabelli, you can do so too, nobody forbids you, indeed - with which we also ask to grant the powers of energy and water control to the Provinces themselves, as large hydropower producers: I think this is very important. So there is one small thing. For the rest I have to say that you are making a real "porcata" and delivering it to history. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u107	Senator Santini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u108	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity to examine in a new reading the reform of the Constitution, in my opinion, must be fully taken into account for further reflections on the rules voted on in the House, but above all, so that the Senate can make a further contribution to a reform already of great importance in itself, trying to avoid tones and arguments of frontal opposition, which are little help to the ability to synthesis and to the success of the final product of this reform. The contribution I will try to make therefore goes in this direction and I hope that even the time remaining for the debate will not be a missed opportunity with the representatives of the other political forces today in opposition. It is said - it is one of the most used arguments - that talking about institutional reforms has no value: it is a kind of luxury that we cannot afford when the country, as we often hear, has many other problems. I would like to point out, then, that the value of the reform process is not only relevant to the content of the matter - since it is a Constitution, of course, important in itself - but also to make the process of virtuous change in the country a little more dynamic in all aspects of political action. As all my fellow Members are well aware, the implementation of reforms is not a neutral fact: for example, it is an evaluation parameter for the granting of greater or less flexibility at European level in the relationship between deficit and GDP, and we all know what this means in terms of the possibility of achieving expansionary policies for growth, that is, to solve the serious economic and social problems still present in our country. For this reason, then, beyond the caricature versions, it is in the primary interest of the country that this process of reform continues and that it comes to completion in the planned times, moreover not short. Another reflection that should be made is that we are talking about haste and approximation: I know, however, that other colleagues have said, that we have been talking about this reform for now sixteen to seventeen months and others will take us, as it should be, to complete it with other assessments. So, in the times that allow everyone the debate, the rethinking and the reflection, let's bring it to completion, because this will have an added value for the institutions and for the country. On the subject, I would like to go into something that has not been discussed much further than the stereotypes that have been heard in this House quite often in many speeches, especially by the opposition. I am referring to the fact that the innovative principles of this reform, in particular the overcoming of bicameralism, have the objective of making the legislative process more effective, for example by improving institutional representation with a view to a greater connection between the various democratic institutions with legislative opinions. When the President of the Council states that the reform has been expected for years, he refers precisely to this point: in Italy the post-war Constitution has rightly invested the Regions of legislative power and in 1970 it was created the Regions and regional legislative assemblies. It is clear that introducing a greater audience of legislative institutions already posed, and even more so today, the problem of connecting these different institutions with legislative powers. It is a clear choice, however, driven by a situation of necessity and characterized by a strong utility with respect to the actual development of legislative relations, characterized by a strong conflict and substantial moments of institutional paralysis. I advise you to read - I do so, sometimes - the resolutions of the regional committees and the accounts of the Council of Ministers, because in both you will find a very long list of reciprocal appeals: regional laws with respect to national laws and national government with respect to regional laws. So, as we all understand, it only creates a further burden and a great difficulty. I quote a sentence from Barbera: "The conflict between the state and the regional legislature has had a negative impact - feel a little - on both legal certainty and the possibility of a balanced government of the country's economy." The question then is as follows: can a country go forward, can overcome the tremendous challenges it faces without legal certainty, not having the opportunity to govern in a balanced way and therefore effective economic relations? This is a question to be answered seriously and to which the reform responds in very precise terms because, as we know, now - rightly - the reform tracks their respective competences more clearly by eliminating the misunderstanding of the concurrent legislation. However, it remains clear that the dividing line between regional and national competences cannot be fixed once and for all, nor is it a task that can be entrusted ex post to a court such as the Constitutional Court, as is happening so far. The connection between the two moments must be made with political sensitivity and full democratic legitimacy, with a view to cooperation between the Chamber and the Senate of the Autonomies, which fully represents regional and territorial autonomy. In this way the new Senate does not run the risk of being without identity, but clearly assumes a valuable democratic function of representation and institutional effectiveness. From this point of view too, the question of the composition that gives rise to so many caricature reconstructions must be considered, given that there has been talk of the authoritarian Senate and even of the antechamber of fascism, as was said this morning in an authoritative intervention, in a suggestion that I do not share at all. The choice of composition derives exactly from the desire to build a Senate of the autonomous with this function of clarity on the legislative process. Being representatives of the autonomous, it is clear that these people, these senators will be the expression of their actual assemblies: for the Regions, the Regional Councils and, as far as territorial autonomy is concerned, the mayors. Moreover, as we know - and why not remember it, also in the light of the many catastrophist hints - of 28 European countries, 15 are monocameras; of the other 13, 8 have the second chamber of indirect election: the direct election of the second chamber, therefore, is an exception in Europe. Let us remember that, because I believe it helps to make more thoughtful judgments. If we consider - as has emerged from the debate - to identify in the regional elections of the councils what the senators will be, we can do so in ordinary legislative ways, without having to disassemble all the important path made so far. The Penelope syndrome must be avoided, which in recent decades has stopped (without their fault) illustrious representatives of the institutions from Bozzi, De Mita, D'Alema; even the essays of Lorenzago. It is time to say enough, to interrupt this sort of "still dance' that produces nothingness. In the abyss, indeed yes, democratic institutions would end and with them the future of the country. The functions that the Senate will be called to perform in this area are very important, and it is therefore necessary - as many colleagues have said - to revise in this reading a series of limitations introduced to the House, both as regards the legislative process (in particular on European laws) and the election of members of the Constitutional Court. Finally, in the context of the new relationship of cooperation and subsidiarity between the State and the self-government, the responsible autonomy of the regions must be enhanced and properly promoted, strengthening (if possible) the already provided for in Article 116. Regions with ordinary statutes that are in balance of the budget and maintain it over time, that respect principles and obligations of national solidarity (provided for by the various articles of the Constitution, 119 in particular) can exercise the autonomous management of matters of exclusive national competence in analogy to what already provided for the Regions with special Statute, making it the subject of a negotiation with the State and through a law approved by Chamber and Senate. This is a theme particularly felt in the regions bordering the Regions under special statute. It is a process that is used improperly and forcefully on the political level, making it degrade towards impossible independent outlets and increasingly deteriorating the relationship between institutions and citizens, as is unfortunately happening in the very delicate problem of the management of the reception of refugees. Recognizing spaces of institutional responsibility would have a high political and civil value and would remove any alibi from the Regions that, in the name of the claim of an impossible future independence, misexercise the present responsibility, dumping all blame on the State. In conclusion, it is not an authoritarian reform, it will not be a useless Senate, but it will be a redesigned Senate that will have the ability to contribute, with the other laws being approved in the other fields, to build a path of real change of a country that wants to believe in its future, in a better future. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u109	Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u110	Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues, fellow citizens who listen to us and see us from outside, it is not easy to speak on this issue. I think that sometimes we also have to stop and perhaps look behind us, to try to understand well what the previous Members have done or what has been done in Parliament, before: perhaps this could be of inspiration during a debate like this. For this reason, I am going to read these words to you: Mr President, between the middle of 1946 and the end of 1947, the Constitution of the Republic was examined, prepared and approved in this Chamber. With the current Constitution, which has been in force since 1948, Italy has grown in its democracy first and foremost, in its civil, social and economic life. At that time there were strong contrasts in this courtroom too. In April 1947, the first government around Christian Democracy was formed, with the Communist Party and the Socialist Party in opposition. There were very strong contrasts, contrasts that concerned the vision of society, the international location of our country. There were a number of issues of contrast, heated confrontation and very strong controversy. Yet, majority and opposition, together, have then approved the Constitution. At the government stand, when it came to examining ordinary measures or talking about politics and confrontation between majority and opposition, De Gasperi and his ministers sat down. But when this House dealt with the Constitution, examining its text, the Commission of the 75, consisting of majority and opposition, was sitting at the government desk. The Government of that time, the De Gasperi Government, did not sit on the benches of the Government, to underline the distinction between the two dimensions: that of the confrontation between majority and opposition and that concerning the rules of the Constitution. This lesson of a government and a majority that, despite the strong contrast that was there, knew how to maintain and demonstrate, even with formal gestures, the difference between the Constitution and the normal confrontation between majority and opposition, at this moment, is completely forgotten. The institutions are common: this is the constant message that came in that year and a half from a constituent Assembly, crossed - I repeat - by strong political contrasts. As hard as this contrast was, there was the conviction and ability to think that they should approve a Constitution for each other, for themselves and for others. This lesson and this example have been completely abandoned. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Today you of the Government and the majority are making the "your" Constitution. You have prepared it and you want to approve it yourself, thinking only of your needs, your opinions and your relations within your majority. The Government and the majority sought agreements only within them, in the event that accompanied the formation of this profound and radical amendment of the Constitution. The Government and the majority - I repeat - have sought agreements within them and, each time they have modified the text and found the agreement between them, they have armored this agreement. You have systematically ruled out any willingness to examine the opposition's proposals or even just to discuss them with the opposition. This is because you did not want to risk changing the agreements within you, your difficult internal agreements. The way in which this Government and this majority proceed - and I stress this once again - was the opposite of the way in which they were followed in this Chamber, in the constituent Assembly, by the Government, by the majority and by the opposition of that time. Where is the moderation of this majority? There isn't any. Where are the moderates? Except for a few sporadic exceptions, there are no exceptions, because moderation is the opposite of the attitude followed in this decisive, very important and fundamental affair, by the Government and the majority. You have moved on, with this foolish reform, contrary to the example of the Constituent, only so that the Government does not fall. (...) Well, this change is wrong and you know it too. With this sensible amendment you have foreseen that most of the rules of this reform will enter into force in 2011. Other rules will still enter into force in 2016, i.e. 11 years from now... SANTINI (PD). This is the one from before! SANTANGELO (M5S). ... for example, the rule that lowers the number of parliamentarians will come into force in 11 years, in 2016! You know it's bad, too, but you're trading the 1948 Constitution with a few more months of life for the Berlusconi Government. This is the attitude that marked this story. Once again, on this occasion, emerges the conception that belongs to this Government and this majority, according to which the winner of the elections owns the institutions, is its owner. This is a mistake. It is a profoundly wrong conception. The institutions are of everyone, of those who are in government and of those who are in opposition. The serious thing is that, this time, the victim of this conception of yours is our Constitution. I have read, Mr President, the shorthand report of the Assembly of the Chamber of Deputies No 692 of 20 October 2005, which reports a speech by our President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] From history you learn, history must serve something. The world turns around: that time in the government there was Berlusconi and the opposition there were you; now in the government you are there and you are doing exactly the same things and I think that this is absolutely much, but much more serious. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to put a hand on your conscience, thinking about what you are doing. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u111	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u112	Mr President, Italy is a Republic founded on labour and sovereignty belongs to the people. This is the matrix, it is the first element, the milestone of our Republic, of the Republic that was created after we left the Second World War, with all the load of hope and pain. As for the first concept, the Republic based on work, we have already seen what this Government has been able to do and what it continues to do, between false figures, self-exaltation, mystification of facts, etc., on the shoulders of those who still feel more and more distant. The second concept, the sovereignty that belongs to the people, is constantly eroded. It is eroded in the polls, because of unconstitutional electoral laws, which we are the direct issue of - we must honestly acknowledge - because of the actual impossibility of choosing from the voters of their representatives. We are experiencing an erosion of this sovereignty even at a time when we are faced with a government that makes choices and implements policies and concrete acts that have nothing to do with the electoral programme of that same party, of which the President-in-Office of the Council has in some way become Secretary. All this has nothing but an ever-increasing urge for citizens and voters to leave and not to vote. A valid example for all: the so-called good school has been carried out by this Government but, of what is contained in the provision on good school, there is no trace not only in the Democratic Party program, but evidently not even in the intentions of those who voted on it at the time and who have sworn that they will never vote on it again. This revision of the Constitution, therefore, takes place in a context and in ways that are really the worst. First of all, what is striking is the falsehood of a series of statements that have accompanied all this process of promotion, self-exaltation and celebration of the values of this reform, of the meaning, of the objectives and also of the ways of conducting this reform. It is called reform of the Senate, but this is already a falsehood, because the crucial point is not so much the Senate and the abolition of the Senate, which is not there, but rather a profound transformation of everything a balance between legislative power and executive power; but this is of course not said. We focus on the aspect of direct election and that would already be enough, but there are other equally burning issues, other issues that pollute this text. Falsity in the premises: this reform is done because greater efficiency is needed in the legislative process and this efficiency will result from overcoming the bicameralism of equality. In the meantime it is not an overcoming of bicameralism, which is already not equal. I am referring to what we see here every day and that we should have the courage to say, but of course the courage, as Don Abbondio said, one cannot give it. What blocks parliamentary laws is the continuous interference of both lobbying logics and ideological positionings, which has nothing to do with the good of this country and which instead has a lot to do with the bad management, by politics, of the public thing. We are also talking about savings on the costs of politics, but of course what is said is not true: the Senate is not abolished and the costs remain, while the House of Deputies, which has costs five times higher than those of the Upper House and which, at best, sees a presence of MPs never more than three quarters of its members, remains such and as such. It is also said that the country is waiting for nothing else, with figures that denote an ignorance that would make a smile, if it were not exhibited with so much indifference and arrogance by those who sit in that chair, there in the middle. The country awaits much more: a part of the country awaits for example the bill on civil unions and de facto couples, a theme on which we would be eager to see the modernity of which one was drinking, all happy, just Senator Di Giorgi. Disabled people are still waiting for their teachers at school, just as schools are waiting for their school managers, who are also missing because their competitions have been invalidated by the judiciary and the government has adopted them as ope-laws and now they need to be requalified in some way. The exodus wait to know what will happen to them, the foreign investors, on their behalf, wait to know if they can have uncorrupted interlocutors. The mayors are waiting for the money to enable them to give answers to the citizens they are asking for, the graduates are waiting instead to know whether they will be able to find a job without recommendations or whether they will have to pack their bags, in the face of merit, which is being flagged in this House every two by three. On the other hand, the country does not know what awaits it after this reform of the Constitution and especially after the next law of stability. The country does not know: eight out of ten citizens do not know what we are doing. It is then said, with another falsehood, that the path of these "reforms" has been opened to debate and confrontation. My stomach turns to me when I listen to my PD colleagues who, in a serene and quiet tone, almost mystical as if they were dealing with crazy people, talk to us about this great openness and these paths open to debate. I would like to say that they are similar routes to that of jobs act with workers and that of good school with teachers and families. This has been measured by the citizens directly concerned and will also be measured by the citizens who will be interested in it tomorrow, because unfortunately the time will come to pay the bill. Indeed, on the very subject of the law on good school, I would like to say to Senator Di Giorgi that this is an excellent example of what is waiting for us, when you have done this work of demolishing parliamentary democracy: it has been done all in the House, with the force of a drugged majority, brought here without a rapporteur, stifling the whole debate with a vote of confidence and ignoring and even delegitizing those who posed important issues of merit. The result is that, in the face of what a fellow senator said the other day, according to which the controversy over the school is turning off, they do not turn off at all. Every time Minister Giannini comes out, she is rightly challenged and the school has more difficulties than before and less resources than before, so much so that the Regions, first of all Veneto, resort to the Constitutional Court. We'll see what we're going to decide there, but it certainly wasn't a good law for school. Mr Lucherini spoke to us about the other virtuous countries, such as Germany, this was a very dear theme to my colleague Tonini and the opportunity to adapt to them. I don't go into technical details, because listeners don't need it. In fact, the countries that are constantly mentioned are different from us: if you really want to be as efficient as the Germans, it would certainly not be enough to ape their institutions. Perhaps it would be enough to do, as they have done recently, that is to recognize their mistakes, even if they are very serious, and the real faults, such as those of Volkswagen. If we wanted to have the sense of the State of the French, it is clear that it would not be enough, among other things, to misappropriate their institutions. I do not continue because otherwise I would insult the common sense of Italians, at least those who know four notions of history and geography. Every day Italians experience that we are an extraordinary and problematic dough and that for us things are not good, that maybe are good for others. Who listens to us should then ask himself: but why all this cancan? No one makes such big efforts and muscle tests if they don't have a reason for it. The truth is disseminated throughout the bill and in its combination with the electoral law. If it is approved, we will find ourselves in front of a crowded and expensive Chamber of Deputies as it is now, dominated by those who have obtained a majority prize, or rather, by your Government, which - the Renzi Government teaches us - does not coincide at all with that electoral programme voted by the voters. This government will enjoy the most expensive change for our Republic: the formalisation of the surrender of legislative power to the President of the Council of Ministers, who also has executive power, and who, on a road, will no longer have to account to anyone: the highest offices of the State, the President of the Republic, the constitutional judges, etc., etc. will be chosen. Oppositions and minorities will be silenced and will cover their anger hoping to reverse the situation in the next round. We will have a senaticchio that will become a condominium, whose tenants are chosen with different criteria for each Region; the mayors will even be elected by an electoral body other than the one that will elect the regional councillors, and that would elect the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate; it will not cost less, it will not be effective, it will be a sort of... [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I am sorry, but I had prepared a 20-minute speech. I shall try to contain my speech. I was saying, it will be a cemetery of the appointed elephants either by prestige or to keep them out of trouble with justice. The truth lies in this: "Sovereignty belongs to the people" is a poorly considered assumption. The real effect is the concentration of power; this is useful: those who go straight on their way give an idea of determination and security. We know this because we have experienced it: that desire that often dwells in the hearts of the Italians of the strong man derives first of all certainly from a lack of sense of the State, from a lack of desire to take collective responsibility. It is a desire to which we must not condone, but which must instead be brought back to that sense of participation. We should do this here: to halve Members, to change regulations, to make systems more effective, and above all the political class, instead of thinking of reforming the institutions, should reform itself; to return to confront the voters and to give that example of which Senator Di Giorgi spoke, that is the example that should be given: honesty, fairness, ability and willingness to act for the good of the people. There is one thing that strikes me in particular, and that is this: the fact that those who are against this reform are accused of doing so for their own chair. Two days ago I met a janitor from my school, who looked at me and told me anxiously: "Prof, when will he return with us?" I, honestly and frankly, am so happy to be able to contribute here as - and perhaps even more - when I am in my school. I do not accept any kind of insult to the dignity of those who oppose in here. Secondly, I don't have time to read it but I suggest you read Tacitus: "Reduced to love one's own vileness." This is the song that is taken from Canfora, and it is the beginning of the "Historiae" of Tacito. Well, many of those who sit on my right hand will find the mirror of their fears and attitude today. [[Applause from Senators Simeoni and De Petris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u113	Tacitus wrote a lot; if he had read it all we would have far exceeded the twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u114	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u115	Mr President, I ask you right now to allow me to submit the full text of my speech and I say to you that it will be enough for you to have a bell and I will stop speaking by handing over the text. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, when the Fathers of our democracy gave life to the Constitutional Charter, which is the law and the law par excellence, I do not think they themselves had an inviolable dogma in every articulation of which it was composed, although they knew that even sixty years after the fundamental principles remained current and were - as they are - futuristic. Moral and material freedom of the person, freedom in the religious profession, in the sexual identity, in the being of man or woman, in the being of skill or otherwise able, these are all principles that we find in the text of our Constitutional Charter. Indistinguishably, for each of us the Charter provides for the Republic to deal with health and knowledge, work and participation in society by every citizen; in short, self-determination, as an inalienable right that the State must guarantee anyway. Yet in those confused and uncertain times when the Constitution was drawn up and approved, the volumes of participation in the monarchic idea, the oligarchic idea and some kind of right-wing socialism were still important and with little defined contours. Against all possibilities and with few instruments, without emphasis, we must recognize and affirm that there were, however, other forces in the field, those moderate and those left, who had written what would be the backbone of Italianity, understood as a sense of belonging to a country that made the history of Europe and contributed to that of the whole world. Of those forces were heirs to the governments that preceded us and so is this Government that, like those forces, must aim to maintain the extraordinary and current constitutional dictation for future generations. Already in the ninth transitional and final provision of the Constitution it was stated that the Republic was committed to adapting the laws to the needs of local self-government and to the legislative competence attributed to the Regions, this in order to give immediate and effective implementation to Article 5 of the fundamental principles, namely: "The Republic (...) adapts the principles and methods of its legislation to the needs of autonomy and decentralisation." Today's importance of local authorities, today's political and tomorrow's functional cancellation of intermediate bodies such as the Provinces, the restructuring and the simplification of legislation that this Government aspires to and where it has already taken on many objectives, impose the need for a different constitutional architecture that is not read as the mere abolition of the perfect bicameralism, but as the access of local authorities to the levels of maximum government through a House composed of representatives of local self-government. This theme - it must be remembered and many colleagues have already done so - was also the subject of in-depth discussion among the constituent Fathers, who, in the absence of a shared solution depending on the diversity of the ideological approach, opted in the meantime for equal bicameralism, which then lasted until today with alternate events and numerous debates. I am deeply convinced that our democracy has the means of control to guarantee the legitimacy of every word that is signed here and, after a debate that has dragged on for too many years, today we must not be afraid of change, but we must incarnate and carry it forward. I myself had my doubts and concerns at the beginning of this process, but we are now in sight of its conclusion and of the important choice that we must make. In this brief experience in the function that I see today in this House, I have been able to see what the relationship between legislative action and the real needs of the country is: crucial and extremely important topics are late to be discussed or even to arrive in the competent Commissions to give life to the legislative process, nor can I fail to reflect on the numerous open disputes between the regions and the State; disputes that then constitute the instrument to face a dispute, which essentially translate into real disputes. Who can reasonably argue that the time has not finally come to overcome the problem, creating an effective level of communication, allowing sporadic episodes in which a territorial level has to trigger clashes rather than agreements with the central government? How many times do we receive requests from our territories and feel powerless to represent them because we are too few from this or that Region to be able to make us listen, or why in any case and always national issues crush us as priorities? The time has therefore really come for local self-government to be given equal dignity and equal representation, because if it is true that the strength of a chain is determined by the weakest link, it is true that every single entity that directly represents the citizens must have a voice. It is here that we must clearly establish the limits of mandate of this new subject, so that this reform not only appears as a simple overcoming of the bicameralism of equality, but rather the serious identification of a slender and deliberative organ that affects the action of government, when we talk about local authorities and the Constitution, as well as the other matters that are the subject of legislative action. In this House today we are discussing, but also outside, on the one hand the thesis on the need for popular legitimacy and therefore a direct election of those who will have to compose the new Senate, on the other the thesis of an election that takes place in the Regional Councils and in any case among the representatives of the bodies. Different opinions have emerged about the elective system of the constituent Chamber of Autonomies. I am deeply convinced that this, like other corrections already made, is physiological, as they are inherent in a political and democratic process of this magnitude. The debate on the subject has been tightened, sometimes even harsh, but there has certainly been a mutual listening capacity, which is a clear signal of the high level of the debate, from which clear proposals have emerged that - I am sure - will lead to a solution strongly shared between the forces in the field. There will have to be those who will be displeased because, unfortunately, all the different aspirations cannot be satisfied. But I am sure that a strongly shared solution will come from our work. Woe to us if it had failed, and if it fails, the confrontation on this exceptional flywheel of the democratic system that is and must continue to be our Constitution. But what is certainly and unanimously shared is, as has been said, the need to grant local self-government equal dignity, also in view of the crucial role they have played up to now and which they continue to play, thus allowing the reaffirmation and defence of the basic principles of democracy and participation; because democracy is a serious and serious thing we must have the ability to face change, adapting ourselves to the times that run much faster than we and that have sometimes dominated us. Leo Valiani, one of the constituent Fathers, wrote that, years ago, a curious debate took place in England: the poet Eliot wondered why one could admire the work of another poet (in this case Goethe) whose ideas and conception of life were not accepted. The problem had been declared insoluble. Yet the problem had already been solved by Marx, admirer of the Greek tragedy, born of a social structure and a conception of the world that was certainly not his. And even Nietzsche did not deny Wagner's art when he declared that "Master singers" were an attack on civilization, and the problem did not arise because he recognized that between aesthetic admiration and ethical consensus there is no need for a cause-to-effect relationship. We should all treasure this thought and always apply it in the work we are called upon to do in this House, under the very high mandate that has been given to us. I am firmly convinced that our belongings to the political formations in this House must not lead us to identify ourselves as mere typhoidism, but that we must aim for an ethical consensus, infused by the need to give new instruments to deal with this age, with all the dignity of the role that the people have entrusted to us. We cannot reason on the high issues that concern us, with the thought of achieving a higher personal consensus, at the expense of this or that other political group, because what we are going to face is neither a reduction of power nor of democracy. These are not the units of measurement to be applied to this new project. Here we are debating a new project for an Italy that is no longer that of ten, twenty and even less sixty years ago. The units involved are the effectiveness, the representation, the acceleration of the decision-making process, the readiness to follow up the new instruments that this country inexorably demands. Does Europe have to be a government declined over the regions through the state or is it finally now that they have the full right to influence and calibrate initiatives tailored to local needs? The more precise the lens that looks at the country the more the legislative action will be relevant and straight. A society made up of people wins, which is why we must represent them here to the maximum of our possibilities. We are not elected by multinationals, banks, the web or more or less controlled information. We are elected by the farmer who has suffered a flood, by the family who cannot access a mortgage, by those who have taken their lives out of desperation and by those who believe they can rebuild one if the opportunities are there. Legislative action must therefore be faster but also more responsive to the needs of each of us. As Mr Pagliari said in his speech, today we are a regional state. In order to have dignity the territories must be represented, through specific carriers of their application for law and state. This is the reform in its substance: a more rapid but equally guaranteed legislative process and a more corresponding representation of local authorities, which are the beating heart of this country. Without the courage to move on, we are starting to become an old-fashioned machine, heavy and unsuitable for the change and the question of the future that the Italians have been addressing us for some time. Despite running, legifers and giving life to a new way of looking at the country, we are still far from the ford, with the pressing risk that the grey times that chase us again can reach us and make us succumb. We certainly have a duty to embody the uncertain values of the Constitution of the Italian Republic and to aim to be closer to them, but in order to achieve the objective, we are the first to have to change. I think that's a shared opinion. Mr President, if I have run out of time, I shall end here, asking you, as I said, for permission to hand over the rest of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the documents. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. CUCCA (PD). However, I conclude by saying that I am convinced that we have the result at hand, because the comparison that took place in this House has certainly enriched the initial texts. I am convinced that we will still be able to put our hand in this House to solve the problems and problems that remain unresolved. The result, as I said, is at hand and our responsibility will surely guide us towards the goal [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u116	He's enlisted to speak Senator Sibilia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u117	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I am one of the Senators of Forza Italia - the great majority - who, during the first reading of the Constitutional Reform text, voted strongly in favour. Forza Italia has committed itself from the beginning to a process of constitutional revision necessary and useful for the good of the country. Compared with the majority, she came to a text that was basically shared and far from the text originally presented by the Government. It was an acceptable text, in which it was quite easy to find, among other things, some of our fundamental ideas, already present in the constitutional reform of 2005 (made by the Berlusconi government, and then buried by a referendum, thanks to the preconceived hostility of the left), such as the end of the perfect bicameralism and a Senate representing federal and regional realities. It was also planned to end the concurrent competence between the State and the Regions, which, approved during the Amato Government of 2001, in recent years has created a series of conflicts often arrived up to the Constitutional Court, which have immobilized the country. Moreover, the attitude of the Democratic Party, based on discussion and confrontation with the opposition, made us hope at the end of a season of opposition, finally affirming what we have said for a long time, unfortunately unheard: the rules must be written together and the great institutional nodes must be dissolved in the most shared way possible. Of course, more could have been done, such as the direct election of the Prime Minister, the function of constructive trust and more; as I said, however, the result was at least partially satisfactory. After that vote, however, came the election of President Mattarella, who, in ways and certainly not in the choice made, blatantly contradicted the path of confrontation and high mediation up to there undertaken. The Democratic Party has chosen to unilaterally interrupt that climate of trust and mutual respect, with the sole aim of resolving disruptive issues within its own party, which still today - and I say this without any polemic spirit - do not seem to be resolved. The text that is proposed to us for the second reading is profoundly different from the text that came out of the Senate. Certainly, the tactical and instrumental choice to avoid confrontation in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has prevented serious improvement work. This was a serious choice, once again caused by the internal problems of the PD, certainly not by the number of amendments, which - I remember - at some point almost all have been withdrawn from all oppositions. The House's changes have affected some fundamental aspects, first of all the function of the Senate. A Senate that contributes equally to the legislative function in some matters is quite different from one that contributes to the exercise of the same subjects; one thing is a Senate that evaluates the activity of public administrations, much more one that contributes to the evaluation of public administrations. It was a general emptying of the powers and autonomy of the Senate, which constituted a balanced counterweight, performing indispensable control functions in a system with a single Chamber, which is in trust with the Government. On the other hand, there have been many constitutionalists in the 1st Commission who have highlighted the same issues and President Finocchiaro has stressed how these changes prevent those functions of control, verification and evaluation typical of a Chamber detached from the trust report. It would therefore have been important to use all the time available in the Commission to change this aspect, to return to a harmonious and coherent reform, but the Government has decided otherwise, stifling the common need for dialogue and confrontation. Reform is a sensitive matter, so, as many prominent constitutionalists claim, if you change a part, it affects the whole body. I wonder, therefore, how it is possible to underestimate the importance of reflecting further, also because of the changes made to the Chamber, on fundamental issues, such as not only the functions of the Senate, but also the strong preponderance of the Chamber on the Senate on the occasion of the election of the President of the Republic and of the judges of the Constitutional Court, the confusion of the division between the powers of the State and the Regions in matters once competing, the rights of oppositions and the formation of groups also in the Senate, the duration of the mandate of the senators, the preventive pronunciation of the Constitutional Court on electoral laws and, finally, the question of the direct or indirect election of the senators, which is not a matter of little account and which deserves proper reflection. It is clear that the composition formula of the Senate envisaged in the first reading did not pass the scrutiny of the Chamber; it is a fact. The emptying of the Senate's role and functions can only be explained by the non-legitimacy of the senators. It must also be borne in mind that, with the combination of the prize and the list provided for by Italicum, a huge imbalance of powers is created. There are two facts - and I conclude - not present at the time of the first passage of the reform to the Senate. There must therefore be the possibility of a reflection on the methods of election that allow the expression of the popular will, the recognizability of voters and, therefore, a strong legitimacy of the Senate. If this possibility of reflection is denied to us, I have no doubt that my vote will be firmly opposed. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u118	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u119	Mr President, Senators, I am genuinely concerned about the narration of the reform work that we should all be dedicated to. It is presented on all newspapers and on television as an internal confrontation of the Democratic Party, between the Government and the minority. I call on everyone to say loudly that a constitutional reform cannot be an internal matter for a party, even if it is a relative majority; a constitutional reform is a matter for the whole country. It's very important to say it right now. The director of the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), for example, yesterday gave an absolutely agreeable judgment: it would be appropriate to involve in the reform work also the center-right opposition, who first voted on the measure and then found it no longer eligible, after the transformations of the Chamber and after the approval of the electoral law. Equally important would be to involve the 5 Star Movement. This thing, written by the director of the largest Italian newspaper, is a novelty. I remember well, in fact, that in the past it was authoritatively said that the 5 Star Movement was part of a populism tendingly subversive, as was subversive even the armed party in the 1970s. Now this is no longer said and it is very important that we no longer say for the balance of the Constitution. Quoting again that article in a great newspaper that appeared yesterday, another very true thing is said, that we pretend to ignore here. This reform promotes in the Senate a ruling class, that of the Regions, which has given bad proof of itself. Colleagues I understand that - Renzi often talks about it - when we began to talk about the Senate of the autonomy in the left-wing parties it was believed. I myself would have been a federalist - I have a tradition in my family, since a piece, that of minority, of the Statute of the Sicilian Region was made at my home - but, whatever our ideal option, one cannot fail to look at reality. The reality is this: the country suffers where there are local institutions. Also the municipalities begin to have problems and also the law on municipalities should be revised, when it happens that certain votes are taken in the first round, because there are seven or eight lists that support the mayor and then, in the second round, the opposite candidate passes by enchantment. This is already an element of crisis. But with the Regions we did something that did not work: we gave him powers to maneuver money without having autonomy. From this point of view, therefore, the promotion of the Regional Councils in the Senate seems to me to be deeply wrong. The other question of interest of the whole public - and I end on this point - concerns this storytelling of the early elections: if we do not approve of the constitutional reform quickly, the early elections are held. But do you realize the madness? Fontana, director of the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), says that it is not true, that the government does not even care about the early elections so stop saying so. He means that it is said for reasons of internal comparisons. But do you realize the madness behind this statement? The government, according to Calamandrei, should not even put its nose in the process of constitutional reform. Here one even binds one's existence as a government to the approval of a constitutional law. This is completely absurd. Let's ask ourselves: why? I say this immediately: the reason is that true reform is not done in the Constitution; the true reform of the form of government, which changes in this country towards a premiered who had never even been dreamed of by Silvio Berlusconi, is taken out of the constitutional reform, that is by ordinary law. The reform of the Senate is then only a fuss to hide the real reform, which is the transition from a parliamentary system to an absolute premiere system. That's the point. [[Applause from Senators Casaletto and De Pin.]] When such an operation is carried out, of course, it is no longer important what is written within the constitutional reform. Unfortunately, for the job I've done for so many years, I have a long memory. Gentlemen Senators, do you realize that this bill started with the proposal to make senators the Presidents of the Regions and the mayors of the metropolitan cities? It seemed that we were referring to the German example where, as you know, there were states, before unity, which maintained their importance and voted on the individual members of the Bundesrat, without autonomy of mandate but with the view of their Lander. That's what the model looked like. Then, suddenly, in the Commission - I had already been removed so I cannot chronicle what happened in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs - we change completely and move from a Senate of the Presidents of the Region and the Mayors of the Metropolitan Cities to a Senate of elected regional councillors on a proportional basis, (but we do not know how, since if you do not divide the names you cannot, in the small council, guarantee proportionality). Now, and this is the novelty of yesterday, the idea of a Senate that is somehow elected by the people is re-introduced. This radical and continuous change of government over who the senators should be demonstrates the lack of interest in reform and the fact that reform serves simply as a prop for something else that is not in the Constitution, which is the electoral law. It's a mess, basically. We will try - I will try - to improve the law as much as possible, because this is our duty. I have to say, of course, that yesterday's news is something new. I explain this in my own way: if the Senate of the hundred senators were elected by proportional law (I use the words of a person I do not want here and now quote) it would remind the House elected with the majority system of the power relations in the country. This would be a small victory for me. The Senate - remember - cannot vote for trust, so it cannot paralyze the Government, but it would remind the Government that on the issues of guarantee the real relations in the country are not those of an elected Chamber with extraordinary mechanism. This is something that we will see when this famous single amendment to Article 2 is formulated. In general, the most serious problem of all is that of counterweights; that is the point. I remind you that there is only one country in Europe that has an electoral law with the majority prize: this country is called Greece. The majority prize in Greece is not like that of Italicum, so much so that Tsipras took it twice and had to join forces with another political force; but I remind you above all that in Greece there is the counterweight: if the House does not elect, after three times, the President of the Republic, with two thirds of votes, is dissolved. That is the real question. If we have that electoral law, we must introduce in the constitutional reform of the forms of guarantee that the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court are protected from the influence of the Premier, of any premier, of any political force. It is not a biased interest, but it is an absolutely general interest. We are on an almost obligatory path, we are on the tracks: anyone who wants to derail is presented by the information machine - which you all know - like a madman. Well, the madman named Corradino Mineo would advise senators far more important than him, representing big political groups, to make a proposal: since this thing doesn't work, let's stop for a moment and decide to do without a House. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator De Pin]] Better just one House, but with a minimum of guarantees that secure President of the Republic and Constitutional Court, than a mess, because the mess is not fixed. With only one Chamber and those guaranteed powers the Constitution holds the same; the Constitution holds to monocameralism. Above all, we would avoid a tragedy: the confirmation referendum. This confirmation referendum will not be - I have already seen it, it is my job, I read the newspapers, I cannot help it - a referendum that will confirm a constitutional reform law; the confirmation referendum is intended as a plebiscite on the Premier. We will vote on reform, electoral law, jobs act, good school, RAI: all in one. This will be the way the referendum will be presented. But this is a way not to elevate the country towards democracy, but to govern it with demagogy. I disagree! [[Applause from GroupsM5S and Misto-SEL and Senators Casaletto, De Pin, Liuzzi and Simeoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u120	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u121	Mr President, we have reached the second reading of this breakdown of our Constitutional Charter. In fact, we in this House should primarily, indeed fundamentally, be concerned about giving and always guaranteeing freedom and democracy. We can safely produce rights in accordance with the ideals of a majority; and we agree if we do not agree, because it is a political, economic, cultural vision, so we do not agree. In this case, however, we are... pardon, you are changing the balance of the powers of the State: legislative, executive, judicial and - I add - control and guarantee (because with this modification of our Constitutional Charter we are also going to influence that field). What you are concerned about is read through the regulatory production that you are proposing. You are concerned, as was the case during Fascism, about the reconstruction of the organs of production of law. Say you do it to streamline and modernise. Bullshit, bullshit! Tell the truth: you want absolute power over the organs and powers of the State and you want to reduce the participation of the people. In fact, the only provisions of our Constitution that allow the people to intervene are those on referendums and popular laws, institutions in relation to which you have exponentially increased the number of signatures needed. Then there is one of the core values and principles of our beautiful Constitutional Charter: popular sovereignty. But where is popular sovereignty reflected in our Constitutional Charter? Where is it that the people express their sovereignty? Through his representatives. What are you doing? Take away the possibility for the people to express sovereignty in one of the Chambers, leaving the House of Deputies with its very high number of six hundred and thirty Members. As anyone can see from the reading of our amendments and votes on them, our proposal is that of a very slender, very slender Parliament. Perhaps we have put you on too much diet because we have also touched your salaries, but if a Parliament has to be slender we must also streamline those! We had proposed that the number of Members and the number of senators, as well as the parliamentary allowances, which are too high, should be reduced by 50%. We of the 5 Star Movement, without any law, give part of our salaries to the State. Things are crazy: instead of stealing, we give to the state. Who's going to get this money? They are managed by the Ministry of Economy and Finance to finance entrepreneurs because they have to run the economy. Let us return to our Constitutional Charter and to the lies you say. Let's see how what you say gets married inside the text. You say that the new Senate is important because there must be senators representing the local authorities, but let's go see one thing: the duration of the senators' term of office coincides with that of the bodies of the territorial institutions from which they are elected. So, if a senator comes from a municipality that lives only one day, his term of office will last only one day. The same will happen for senators from municipalities whose life is ten days, or one or two years, with the result that the Senate will become not a high House, but a brothel. At this point, as we proposed at the previous reading, it would be appropriate to repeal the Senate, but really and not only by voice. Do you remember what Renzi said last time? He spoke of repealing the Senate, but it wasn't true: it was another Renzi dance. The truth is not the repeal of the Senate, but the repeal of the citizens' vote for the election of the members of the Senate. It is limiting popular sovereignty and repealing popular prerogatives. Let's go ahead and see another very serious aspect. And I am addressing you in the press because it would be appropriate that what I am about to say is "shoot" and you let everyone know: do you know what they have included in the text that comes to us from the House? I read Article 6 because it is quite clear: The Chambers Regulations guarantee the rights of parliamentary minorities. That's nice, that's good. They are said to guarantee, and this makes us understand the will of the constituent legislator. But then you add: The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies govern the statute of oppositions. That is, the majority determines how the opposition should behave. Here we are in the fascist regime! Please ensure that this diction is eliminated. It is not possible that there is such a rule, it is not possible for the majority to establish the rules of the minority. Have you been unnoticed? Well, now you know it; let no one say a tomorrow that he didn't know it. He's in. He's in. Let's go further. You say that you do all this to streamline, to speed up the process of passing the laws because this legislative process, this ship "going and coming," that is, this rule that makes the shuttle from one House to the other is wasting time. But sometimes it took us even three days to approve the laws; indeed, if I'm not mistaken, we took even one night, for example when you had to save Berlusconi! All right, let's see. Let's remember one thing: when does a law become effective in a country? Of course it must be published, but before it is published, it is promulgated. Well, Article 10 on the legislative procedure states: "Every bill approved by the Chamber of Deputies is immediately transmitted to the Senate of the Republic" - and so far, rightly, in the sense that the House approves it and transmits it to the Senate - but then continues: "that, within ten days, " (and let's say that the Senate holds it ten days, because it wants to do so) - "At the request of one third of its members, it can arrange to examine it." So the senate spends ten days and says he wants to examine it. In the following thirty days, the Senate of the Republic may decide on proposals for amendment of the text, on which the Chamber of Deputies shall give its final ruling. If the Senate of the Republic does not have the opportunity to proceed with the examination or the deadline to deliberate has been unnecessarily completed, that is to say the thirty days, that is, when the Chamber of Deputies has finally pronounced itself, it is always after the Senate has passed the ball to it, the law can be promulgated. So technically you could get the Senate to block a bill for forty days. So what is the speed of the legislative process? You fool the Italians, morning, afternoon and evening! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And we are occupying a Parliament, with all the majorities, the press that speaks, the minority that opposes the majority; but we are always talking about the PD. We are talking about the Constitution, but the Constitution is not of the PD. The Constitution belongs to our children, it belongs to all the Italian people! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Then perhaps it would be appropriate, if you really want to do it yourself, for you to go and produce the standards. Here one dies of hunger; there are 10 million Italians living below the relative poverty line. They are the ones we have to help, because if we help them, we also help the small businessman to start again. We must restart Italy through regulatory production, not through the transformation of the organs of legislative production, as Fascism wanted to do. Mr President, last time I concluded my speech by accusing all those who voted for this constitutional reform of attacking popular sovereignty on its foundations. I had accused them of having given Italy rules that would enslave her and of harming her freedom. I had accused them, finally, of the blood that will be shed by our children, to regain the freedom that risks being lost, if these norms will pass so and if tomorrow there will be other extremist political forces - you are loading them with the machine gun - that with these rules they will be able to manage all the powers of the State. Someone might object, saying, It's not like that, but when ever! I would like to tell them to read the text well, to understand what can happen with these rules. With a majority electoral law you can take the whole House and the whole Parliament, to do everything quietly. Nine senators will do. They are, nine senators: here you buy everything [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni),]] Forget it if you can't buy nine senators! This will allow the election of the Head of State, the members of the MSC and the Constitutional Court, by making the en plein. At this point, however, it would be appropriate, as I have also heard from a majority senator, to really talk and sit down at the reform table. You also allow the minority to argue, because the Constitution is not yours, but it is our children's and, as such, must be defended. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u122	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u123	Mr President, our House returns for the second time to address the very sensitive issue, clearly one of the most important of this legislature, of the reform of our Constitution. This is an issue which, for every representative of the people, for every person called to perform a parliamentary function, represents one of the greatest proofs. It is not just a question of defining the rules, to which our fellow citizens are asked to stick pro tempore, but it is the fundamental scheme to which the other rules, the ordinary laws, must be traced back. It is a task that therefore calls each of us to the maximum responsibility, which means a responsibility to different subjects. It is a responsibility towards oneself and its conscience, a responsibility towards its own parliamentary group, its own political party and its own voters and a responsibility towards what is believed to be the supreme interest of the country. This obviously puts each of us in a very delicate situation, but precisely for this very exciting and rewarding, even if it makes the wrists tremble to think that we are radically changing many articles of our Constitution. It is good that this happens in the most shared, serene and attentive way to all instances, to the voices that rise in the country and to all the concerns that arise with respect to the way in which we are acting on the Constitution. I do not share the view of those who believe that this Parliament is constitutionally illegitimate because of the electoral system with which we have been elected; but it is clear that having been elected with an electoral system for which the Constitutional Court has noted very heavy constitutional profiles calls us to a double responsibility with respect to the delicacy of acting on the fundamental Charter and the need to find the maximum possible sharing. I say this at a time when (just in these hours) some bitterness of the internal debate in the Senate and external Chamber present throughout the country may show that they can have a mitigation, that they can indicate solutions that are more shared. I hope that this will indeed be the way forward in the coming hours and days, knowing that it is a path to be built and that the willingness to build the widest possible majority in the formulation of these reforms is a path that has been drawn up, but not yet taken. I hope that on that road we can move in a spirit of service towards our country and towards our Constitutional Charter. The public debate over the last few months has been concentrated on a point that has seemed to be the one of greater friction, so much so that it has been raised on the most important issue of the reform that we are going through. I am referring to the way in which members of the Senate are elected. I am sure that this is a very important issue, but I would like to point out that we must all escape the media simplification that we are only thinking about here today, or almost exclusively about that point. It is an important aspect to which I want to devote a few words, but then I want to talk about something else, because much more has been said very little. Well, that's what I'd like to say about the senators' electives. No one thinks that among the various hypotheses in the field there are those of the construction of authoritarian systems, dictatorial ones, that tend to give life to new fascisms or to concult the freedom of the citizens. The theme must be addressed much more secularly, but for this reason with the utmost responsibility and rationality, and it is that of a different balance that we are going to build between the principle of participation in representation and the principle of governability, therefore of power in the hands of those who will have to manage the executive function in our country. It is a subject - I come back to say - that must be managed and lived very secularly because it does not concern the comparison between democracy and dictatorship, but it can concern the way in which, in the face of a need, in an increasingly complex international scenario, of governability, efficiency and speed of decisions, we sacrifice important pieces of participation, representation, broad involvement in decisions and above all of balance between the various, very delicate elements that make up our constitutional architecture. That is what we are talking about, and that is what we must pay the greatest attention to. It is for this reason that they are among those who believe that the principle of giving decision-making power to citizens, in the definition of who will be the members of the Senate, in a direct way; therefore not only through the double level, that is, giving regional councillors the task of choosing and deciding which will be the senators, but giving it directly to the citizens, in a logic of Senate of the autonomous, in a context that is that of the election of the regional councils, therefore in a context, precisely, of election of senators who are also part of the regional councils, that actually represent their territories, that they go to compose a Senate that, even if we wanted - and I am happy with this - to call Senate of the Republic, represents at the end a Senate of the autonomous ones. I see openings in this direction in the last few hours. As I said before, the road is visible, but we have not yet begun to walk it. I hope that this will indeed be the way in which we, in the overall system that we are redesigning the composition of the two chambers, will ensure that a substantial part of the future Members of Parliament can actually be directly represented by citizens and citizens when, precisely, our compatriots go directly to the polls themselves. (17.20) (Follows JUDICE). I hope, in fact - and we are still talking only about hypotheses - that the technical solutions identified can actually maintain the principle that, beyond the technical form in which this is to take place, the principle of the delivery of an effective and not only formal decision-making time in the hands of citizens is preserved. The principle of the need for a direct election of at least a part of the new Senate, in balance with what was established by the electoral law for the House, that is, with Italicum, which in turn provides for the direct election of a minority part of the Members, is not only an end in itself; it is not just a question of establishing a principle of direct democracy, at least in the choice of its representatives. The fact is that this element crosses other strong and important changes that we are making within our Constitutional Charter and involves the need to safeguard some balances also with respect to other issues, first of all the election of the President of the Republic. I believe that we should pay great attention to foreshadowing which audience will elect the President of the Republic, who, apart from the obvious and absolute prerogatives that belong to his function, to his office, in turn has the task of electing a substantial part of the Constitutional Court and thus of affecting another pillar to import the institutional architecture of the country. Let us ensure that this can actually be an audience that responds, at a time and in different forms, with different numerical balances and with different electoral laws, to that principle which the constituent fathers wanted to establish in the 1948 Constitution for which the President of the Republic is not elected by the political force that wins the elections, but by a broad majority that needs a relationship between those who won the elections and those who did not win them, that is between the majority and the oppositions. This principle was established in 1948 in front of a House elected on a purely proportional basis. Well, in a context in which the House will be elected according to a requirement that I share - we mean - to guarantee a greater governability that the country needs, but with a strong majority prize, that principle to be safeguarded needs particular care. Together with others I have tabled a number of amendments relating to the more proportionate definition of the audience that will elect the President of the Republic and to a more balanced relationship between the majority power and the other political forces. For example, we have tabled amendments which extend the possibility of being called for the election of the President of the Republic also to MEPs, elected in turn with a proportional system, which would therefore be a corrective to the mechanism by which the audience is formed. We have proposed a reduction in the number of Members when we reduce the number of senators, so as to better ensure the balance between a House which has a strong majority and a House which does not have a majority; we have tabled amendments which include in the Senate also those elected Members abroad who, in the context of the Senate of the self-governments, might better find their own size. There are also other issues that I now have no time to mention except for titles, concerning the possibility of giving voice to citizens through the proposed referendum, the question of functions and the way in which the State and the Regions articulate their competences. In short, let's make sure that the work of these days is real, effective, to leave to those who will come after us a modified constitutional balance, but still able to stand on their own. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u126	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would just like to point out to you that during the whole of Mr Lo Giudice's speech the two Secretary Senators were not present in the Chamber. Only now has one of them settled in his place. For the proper conduct of the work, and since the presence of the senators in the Chamber is already reduced to a minimum, as well as that of the representatives of the Government, I would like to remind you that the Secretary Senators are not there for their liking, but because it is their duty to be present. If there is a need of any kind, the sitting could rather be interrupted for as long as necessary. May it remain in the records that the Senate worked for 10 minutes without Secretary Senators. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u129	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would also like to ask the House to hear Mr Pinotti's request for a hearing. A few weeks ago, it seems to me in July, the Senate approved, with almost unanimous support from the various groups (however, my Group voted in favour) a decree-law that launched a further military mission in the Mediterranean, the EUNAVFOR Med mission. It is a mission that aims to counter the hullers and not to add to the missions that, in the past and some of them still, such as Frontex and Triton, are concerned with what we actually call a sort of state escafism for the transport of illegal immigrants. The mission was to serve, as the decree-law approved to the Senate and of course also to the House, to counter the hullers with an intelligence activity and in various phases, until it even reached the possibility of destroying various hulls. After that, it presupposed a whole series of acts of the European Union and the UN that did not come. Perhaps if the President-in-Office of the Council, who went by plane to New York for the US Open Final, had also held back on Monday to go to the UN to ask for account and reason for the non-resolution, he would have also cushioned his travel expenses and justified them by taking useful action. The request is that Minister Pinotti be immediately audited, at least in the Defence Commission. We read, in fact, that the military ships employed in this mission, which are others compared to those already engaged in Triton and other missions and specifically intended for this mission EUNAVFOR Med, are used daily, (it is also news of yesterday, just watch a news or read the newspapers), for the rescue and transport of the illegals. These tasks do not fall within the scope of this mission and involve additional expenditure, partly covered at international level and partly, of course, incidents in the defence budget. The phenomenon is happening constantly, the UN does not come to any determination, the European Union postpones one summit after another and Italy is spending more money with a distraction of funds, because the measure, which has been launched for a specific purpose, has put the sea ships that are carrying out another purpose. It is therefore urgent to obtain, at least in the defence committee, given the progress of the work of the House these days, the hearing of Minister Pinotti to understand what is happening on this matter. In our opinion, the decree-law is being violated and another task is being carried out, with ships that should be withdrawn, because there are already ships destined for that purpose. Multiplying the transport of illegal immigrants, when the latter measure was to serve exactly the opposite, i.e. to combat the activity of boatmen, is a mockery for Parliament. And it is also proof that, despite the good will of the Forza Italia Group to have shared that decree-law, with a favourable vote, we have once again been turbulent. Maybe we're a little naive, but then we'll talk about the reforms at another time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u130	The Presidency will signal its request to the President of the Defence Commission and examine with the Government the possibility of holding the hearing of Minister Pinotti.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u133	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to refer to what President Gasparri has just asked: this is a matter of fundamental importance, so I would like to make a small correction. The whole Senate must be immediately informed by Minister Pinotti of what is being done. I remember that mission cost EUR 26 million for ninety days, and that, among other things, Senator Gasparri voted, even a little naively because it was known that it was linked to the two phases that were practically impossible to accomplish. I am therefore asking you, Madam President, to put the following request to the vote (and there are the eight senators who are ready to support it) in accordance with Rule 56 (4) of the Rules of Procedure: we are asking Mr Pinotti to come to this House to report immediately on this fact, because it concerns a not indifferent issue, that of immigration. I wouldn't want, besides the damage, there was also the mockery of moving ships like the Cavour to do pseudo-intelligence operations, at a time like the present, when the needs are absolutely different. Please tell me, Madam President, at the end of my speech, when you intend to put this request to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u134	Under Rule 53 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, your request may be put to the vote at the end of the sitting. MARTELLI (M5S). Under Rule 56 (3) of the Rules of Procedure! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Article 55, paragraph 7, of the Rules of Procedure, I correct, for the insertion of new topics on the agenda due to events of particular urgency or seriousness... MARTELLI (M5S). It is not Article 55, but Article 56, paragraph 4. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall therefore put the proposal to the vote at the end of the sitting, in accordance with the terms of the Rules of Procedure. That's the assessment. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Excuse me, Senator Santangelo, you asked me when you intend to vote and I replied: the item is not on the agenda nor is it a reversal of the agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). I didn't say that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If I may, since you have asked me a question, I have given you an answer, which is this: it is the inclusion of a new topic, which is different from the reversal of the agenda. The question that you raised, namely Mr Pinotti's hearing, is not on the agenda or on the timetable, so we must include it. Requests for the insertion of new points, in the light of unforeseen events, can be voted at the end of the sitting, as stated in paragraph 7 of Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure. That is the answer, according to the Presidency's interpretation. [[Comments from Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u136	I am sorry, I am not opening a debate, because a vote has been requested, which will be taken under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u137	MARTELLI (M5S). I have the right to speak on a point of order! SANTANGELO (M5S). It is on the Rules of Procedure. You must give him the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Well, then make your point of order, Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so. [[Senator Paglini's comments.]] MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, in this case I am sorry to go against your decision, but Rule 56 applies and not paragraph 55 (4). You referred to Rule 55, but it is 56: To discuss or vote on items that are not on the agenda, this is the case - with the support of eight senators, a debate can possibly be opened. I repeat, however, that it is Article 56 which applies and not Article 55. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u138	He didn't read it all. In fact, it is written: "to be moved forward at the beginning of the sitting, or when the Senate is about to move to another item on the agenda." In these cases, therefore, we shall vote immediately, and there is a logic, because we are going to move on to another point or we are going to start a debate; instead, when the debate continues, as in today's sitting, and we must put another item on the agenda, in a subsequent sitting, which is not provided for, the other rule of the Rules of Procedure, which I mentioned earlier, applies. I hope that the reasons for the decision will be clarified.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u139	Senator Sonego is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a reform which, with some exceptions, we all believe is necessary to ensure that the institutions of the Republic are better able to preside over the democratic and civil life of the country. In the context of this debate, the issue of the election of the Senate, on which, moreover, I have had specific opinions for a long time, has emerged with particular force (and is reflected in the reports of the press bodies), I would say from the very beginning of this debate in the Chamber and also in my Group, and this is therefore not a new issue for me. They've always been for the senate's electivity. In fact, under this particularly emerging aspect of the debate, there are, in my opinion, three major issues. Firstly, there is the problem, still unresolved in the text today on the agenda, of an adequate balance between the powers of the State in order to allow our constitutional order to make possible the definition of a structure between the powers of the Republic which can be considered to be fully liberal. Not that the legal system now formally under discussion represents something undemocratic; what I say is that we should try to define that order in a more fully liberal way. The second major issue concerns the powers of the Senate, which were defined at first reading, precisely by this House, in a somewhat inadequate way in my opinion, but which, then, in the House, have been dramatically impaired, laying down the conditions to ensure that the public opinion and the media themselves, in view of its modest powers, will, at some point, put the issue of the need to overcome tout court in the Senate. Thirdly, the question of the role of the regions is all too negligent, or cross-eyed. I come to the question of the election of the Senate, on which I should like to comment briefly. Today it seems possible to have a political understanding allowing the definition of a widely shared constitutional text. I hope that this is so, because it is in the interest of the Republic, the Constitution and politics that there is broad agreement on those definitions. All this has so far been lacking, especially in the House, because there has been a lack of adequate political direction. I think that should be said. In particular, the debate and voting in the House clearly revealed the lack of adequate political direction. It does not explain, otherwise - for example - the fact that, in that branch of the bicameral Parliament, there has been a kind of bitterness, unmotivated from the political and wrong point of view from the institutional point of view, in relation to the powers which the constitution provides for for the second branch of Parliament, even if there is a regime that is no longer equally bicameral. At this moment, therefore, we need two things: on the one hand, a great and substantial political understanding and, on the other, a strong political direction, in order to ensure that the constitutional text that we are about to dismiss in this branch of Parliament - I hope on the basis of a great and far-sighted agreement - can also find complete confirmation in the other. With regard to the powers of the Senate, we must return to our steps, to the steps of the Senate. We must return to the powers established in this House for the future Senate, remedying the mistakes made in the other branch of Parliament. And I believe that a reflection of this branch of Parliament on the issue of regionalism is also favourable. Attention: what we have decided in this House about Regions is the result of a very substantial conflict of powers that exists within the state, but also within the nation. It is a conflict of powers that has as its aim a kind of settlement of accounts in the distribution of institutional power between the centre of the State and its periphery. And there is no doubt that it has affected that redefinition, which we in this House have considered to be a very strong neo-centralist push. I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues from all the parliamentary groups to the need for a more careful and balanced assessment of this matter, making the tara of an aggression which, over the years, has been built against the system of regionalism, attributing to the regions faults they do not have. Let us be clear: the regions, as well as the institutions of the central state, are bearers of defects and also of faults, but not all the evil that is attributed to them is the responsibility of the regional institutions. Let me just give you two examples. In the collective imagination, it is thought that the poor management of the archaeological area of Pompeii in the Campania Region must be attributed to a responsibility of that regional institute. On the contrary, the national shame that derives and weighs on all of us because of the poor use of that immense heritage is not to be attributed to the Campania Region, but much more simply - and in some respects more seriously - to central government of the State. The shame of Pompeii's excavations is the fault, not of the Region, but of the State. And again: the MOSE scandal in Venice is not to be attributed to the responsibility of the Veneto Region. [[Applause from the Senator Council]] All responsibilities lie with the state's central administrations, which have not performed the function of supervision and institutional functions to try to prevent bad business. I say all these things because the bitterness towards the Regions is really the result of a clumsy strabism and is the final outcome of a very deep conflict existing within the state and the nation to relocate the powers of the State, obviously on the basis of a strongly centralistic push. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying that the reflections I have proposed in my speech are intended to draw the constitutional legislator's attention to and prudentness in redefining and modernising the rules of the Constitution. And, in the context of this necessary more carefulness, I believe there is also a need to define in a more satisfactory way the discipline that governs the functioning of the Regions with Special Statute and the Autonomous Provinces. I am not of the opinion that the transitional rule concerning these institutions is satisfactory. I say this from the benches of this House: it should be confirmed that transitional rule, which I have tried to criticize in several places, speaking and even writing, I believe that we would put the seed to rest for problems that we would reap here not much. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u141	Senator Di Maggio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u142	Madam President, I am afraid that President Renzi is right. Judging by the presence in this House on such an important and sensitive subject, such as the Constitution, I believe that they certify more than any other comment that the uselessness to which this House has been reduced has been reduced. I would like to make the observation made by Senator Mineo earlier than the narrative of the events that have taken place in this House. When we talk about the Constitution, in fact, basically we talk about rules and the rules of parliamentary debate have been very often managed in a way - I would say - unorthodox. I recall, for all, the replacement in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of those who did not share what was done in the work of that same Commission. The rules, then, become an important thing, especially when they are administered in this way. It is as if the rigors usually fought from 9 meters for the majority, while the oppositions could beat them only from 18 meters. This is the method that we have inaugurated. I confess my total inadequacy to juggle in ways, in doing, in the new vocabulary, in short, in the new culture that this Senate lives and that with this terrible reform it wants to institutionalize. For more than two years I have been trying to understand the logic behind this branch of Parliament, but - as you have authoritatively supported one of the finest minds in this House - I think it is very difficult for my cultural formation to be able to fit in with the "intellectuals of foosball." The quote is from the apostate Senator Paolo Corsini. We had to live a parliamentary debate bland, absurd, paradoxical, full of lies, of fictions, of plays of the parts, of performances, of speeches in half, of forcings, of drunkenness, but above all - the most ancient and customary costume of our country - of harlotry. "Sudvia, what strong words" will object to the sacred vestal of Renzi-pensiero, to the Senator Zanda century. Even yesterday the sacred vestal admonished on the columns of the "Corriere della Sera" not to mix the sacred with the profane, that no sale of senators is in place and that the only sale to be remembered is the one told by the now famous Senator De Gregorio: old stories of other legislatures. But I, who are still a senator elected by that bue people, continue to ask myself: by grace, Senator Zanda, you who so often refer to the dictates of the Regulations, why have not the Presidency bodies of the parliamentary committees been renewed to date? And how is it that the government team has not yet been completed? Why? Explain. Is constitutional reform a priority over government and institutional structures? I confess that I have tried to tune in with this way of understanding things, sometimes comforted by the authoritative thought of some fellow senators and - heard, heard - I have tried even to try to try with the hyperboli of barracciana memory, sure that the shining thought of so much authoritative member of the Government finally served to dissolve my doubts and illuminate my way. I listened to the debate in this House and tried to understand the reasons of others. I have listened to the dives in the past, the calls, even authoritative, totally convincing and agreeable, opinions - those recalled - of President Nilde Iotti. But then I always ended up banging my face on the seductive image of Maria Elena Boschi's ephemeral. I don't know why, but when I think of this reform, a wonderful cartoon of Giannelli appeared on the Corriere della Sera comes back to my mind as a commemoration of the 150 years of the Italian Republic. On the cartoon, on the one hand you have the bust of Giuseppe Verdi and, on the other hand, that of Denis Verdini and then there is the writing: "From Verdi to Verdini". In that sentence there was not only the chromatic decay, but also the cultural one and - why not? - the ethic of our country. Irony of fate: from Verdi to Verdini, from Calamandrei to Renzi (irony of fate, also Calamandrei was Florentine); but, again, De Gasperi, Nenni, Togliatti, Amendola, De Nicola, Parri, Mortati. But as the former president of the Republic of Giorgio Napolitano, who at least belongs to that generation, to abjure that history, those sacrifices, those efforts. How does the current senator for life Napolitano support this unsustainable reform with so icy candor? I know my detractors will say that I did not say a word about the content of the reform. I know, but I avoid the effort to say things that - I am aware of - are of no interest to anyone. As can be seen from the presences, the members of the majority of this House follow the magic piper and, like the cetaceans who lose their orientation - but here, alive God, it is a matter of reason - will end up beaching. Since this Senate is still elected by the citizens, this unfortunately amounts to saying that they will be beaching the country. What lies in the head of the President-in-Office of the Council is obvious and comes from his own words, which often surpass his own thinking at speed. It then happens that the warning to the President of the Senate, made without any consideration or - as is best said in this House - with institutional politeness, manifests his real sentiment, which is that of the "here I command." What does it mean to call Chamber and Senate if not the plastic image of what we want to achieve with this constitutional reform, that is, the subjection of all the powers of the State under one power? So much for what the Constitution calls weights and counterweights necessary for the functioning of every democracy! Madam President, I shall conclude. In an attempt to make the debate more and more opaque, giants of the history of the political and constitutional thinking of our country have been mentioned in this House. Then I will try to remind, especially to the compañeros of the Democratic Party, a few words by Piero Calamandrei: not just any character, but one who defined the Constitution as the testament of 100,000 dead. Calamandrei told the young university students in Milan in 1955: If you want to go on a pilgrimage to the place where our Constitution was born, go to the mountains where the partisans fell, to the prisons where they were imprisoned, to the fields where they were hanged. [[Senator Santini's comments.]] Maybe you forgot. Calamandrei said: "Wherever an Italian died to redeem freedom and dignity, go there, or young people, with thought because there our Constitution was born." I feel very distressed to leave this will in the hands of the new constituents. [[Applause from the CoR, M5S and LN-Aut groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u143	He is registered to speak Senator Corsini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u144	Madam President, I believe that everything has been said between us as far as our debate is concerned. Now is the time of politics as a resource of the mediation composition, within the Democratic Party and the complex of political forces, precisely because of the Constitution it is and, therefore, of statuere cum (to establish together). It is clear in me the perception of a personal inadequacy and a lack of legal competence, but also of authoritativeness to the only comparison with the stature of the constituent Fathers and their moral tension that allowed the Constitution to be born to unite (the reference to the book of Enzo Cheli: "Born to unite"). We are certainly in the presence of a Constitution disputed because there is uncertainty among Italians about the sense of democratic citizenship; because we are witnessing a loss of shared values; because the ethical-civil unity of the country is in crisis; because a confrontation and a dispute are open within the Democratic Party (I believe that we should say it without disguises and infigurations); also contended because the votes coming from other political formations could be substitute when, instead, they should be the result of a desired convergence. However, I believe that reform is necessary, so that we can face the crisis of an undoubtedly growing society. Therefore, not the need for a "new beginning," but - as stated in a memorable text Pietro Scoppola in 1998 - the knowledgeable practice of the culture of the amendment. I come to the current historical-political context. As far as I am concerned, I am convinced of the need for the reform plan, which certainly has value for its merit and not because of hypothetical reasons for exchange (approval of the text of the reform on the one hand and tax reform on the other). And despite the vulnus inflicted with approval in a semi-empty House in the House. Central remains the overcoming of symmetric and equal bicameralism, although on this subject I think it is worth recalling a balanced historical judgment. The bicameralism paritarian entered into crisis at the end of the 1980s, at the end of the Cold War, but earlier, in the years of republican history, it had the value of a sort of possible compensation compared to ideologically opposed worlds. So no longer is the senate's confidence, no more budget votes, no more prerogative on legislation that is no longer bicameral; on this I believe that the agreement is now acquired. There are, however, some open problems. First of all there is the problem of the balance between representation and governance, what I would call the theme, of a productive stability that accompanies the growth of the country. This was the snare of a great constitutionalist like Leopoldo Elia: the solution of the unresolved problem since the failure to approve the famous agenda of Thomas Perassi, a mazzinian of faith and customs, therefore not unaware of the role of the people, only to think of the theorization of one of the fathers of the Risorgimento. Then there is the theme of balance in identifying the functions and fluidity of the legislative process, on which my old colleague and friend Roberto Zaccaria wrote pages of great lucidity. But there is a fundamental problem, a political problem to which I want to draw attention and on which I believe that some significant openings have been made. It's not just words, it's facts, because words sometimes weigh like stones. I am referring to the problem that arises from the approval of Italicum and the repercussions that concern us, repercussions that refer to the form of government, the system of guarantees, the power of control, the definition of weights and counterweights. When we talk about changing the form of government, we do not allude to the need for a decision-making and ruling democracy, on which I believe we all agree, but to the risk of an "executive" democracy in which the Executive risks subsuming the powers of the Legislative, of a democracy of over-strengthened investiture, of a semi-presidency of the Premier, of a new Mayor of Italy. He was quoted on more than one occasion Leopoldo Elia. Well, Leopoldo Elia feared the risks of an "absolute premierate" and others recalled the category of "majoritarian absolutism" (Umberto Allegretti): not the achievement, which is in my wish, of an accomplished and mature bipolarism, but the pulverization of the political system substantially dominated by a personalized monopartyism. Finally, I believe - and this is the last aspect in my opinion problematic - that there is the risk of an alteration of the relationship between the expression of political will and representation, moreover, in the presence of an ever higher abstentionism and a fall in the credibility of the parties, with the party taking on the forms of the post-party (Paolo Mancino), with the widespread anti-politics and populism. Apart from the inconsistencies in the text of Article 57, as amended, as compared to Article 66, however, two important political facts remain: the courageous, honest intellectually and politically position of Senator Tonini, and the statements, which are valid because they are pronounced by a minister, by Maria Elena Boschi. Here I drew the hope, however prudent, of the fall of the taboo of so-called direct electiveity. It seems to me that the minorities of the PD - I prefer to talk about minorities rather than dissidents, because nobody denies the duration of membership - have basically made it clear that the regional councillors will be senators. The point on which Tonini and Boschi have opened significant openings must be stressed: which of these regional councillors will become senators will be the result of a determination of the citizens. It seems to me that this passage, to some extent, puts a brake or, in any case, sets a limit - because democracy is also a brake and a limit to the risk of abuse of power - to those dangers which I referred to earlier, especially when we think about the formulation of the Charter, which we are discussing today: the Senate will have functions of constitutional revision, approval of electoral laws, popular referendums, laws of determination of the systems of the governing bodies, municipalities and metropolitan cities, evaluation of the criteria of subsidiarity and proportionality under the Treaties of the Union. I believe that this point of view, the hearing that I hope will be able to find the indications that the Minister has put to our attention, will enable us to reach an extension of the basis of consensus, a fundamental and decisive criterion in the context of legislative production, which relates to a constitutional text. A number of problems remain open: I will not repeat here the intervention I have made in the Commission on Article 55, on functions. I do not stress this, because it seems to me that this prospect is also open to possible and desirable sharing. I am particularly interested in two areas to be defined, on which it seems to me that distances can be shortened, namely the issue of guarantees and rights. Already some Members have mentioned the issue of the election of the President of the Republic, with the possibility of an extension of the audience of the great voters and the question of the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court. I believe, however, that in a time when we are called to absolutely unprecedented challenges, due to the domination of technology - those depths of consciousness with which we will have to deal daily - on the great ethically sensitive and bio-political issues, on the issues of minority rights, on religious freedom in a post-secular era, which sees a powerful return of the sacred, in terms of radical fundamentalism, a Senate that constitutes a place of deepening, critical evaluation, of exaltation of the freedom of conscience, beyond the political groups, constitutes a factor in the implementation of the value of democracy. Finally, to conclude: I have lived in my political experience a long season as Mayor and I believe that a rebalancing in Title V, a return to the original text of the Senate, both from the point of view of legislative competences and from the point of view of financial autonomy, and, of course, desirable. A political conclusion. I said that there was a provision for dialogue, in the sign of that "seek again" that was the wish of a great Italian and a great intellectual. Contradictions of the minority? I don't think so. There have been differences in the evaluation of minorities in the Senate and the House, but we claim to be free spirits. We need a supplement of soul, of constituent animus, of unitary research, and therefore for my part the hope, the conviction of the necessity of convergence in any case to shared solutions, also in view of the celebration of the referendum, which may not be a plebiscite, but a free convocation of people, without evidence of strength or muscular performances, in view - Vannino Chiti concluded his speech, last time, citing Jurgen Habermas, the theorist of the "constitutional patriotism" - of a renewed constitutional patriotism, of a new democratic citizenship for Italy today and for Italy that will come. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u145	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u146	Mr President, I trusted in the twenty minutes available, because I have to make a brief digression not so much about the Senate that will come as about what we are facing here, and in which very often we do wrongs, we indulge ourselves in the insolence and - what is more serious - we try to slander our colleagues. The leader of the 5 Star Movement, Senator Castaldo... VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. Castaldi! D'ANNA (AL-A). ...Castaldi, who, for the love of God, is a good boy (and it is true the adjective like the noun)... SANTANGELO (M5S). It's got nothing to do with it. This is an end-of-session speech. D'ANNA (AL-A). I said that Senator Castaldo was allowed to explain in this House... BULGARELLI (M5S). Castaldi! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna, please stick to the subject of the discussion. D'ANNA (AL-A). But even Castaldo wasn't on the subject. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Ma'am, will you let me talk to you? Can I talk? Are you able to guarantee that I exercise my right to speak or are we subjected to the squadronism of the 5 Star Movement? [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] BULGARRELLI (M5S). Bravo, Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. To conclude your speech, I would ask you to use sober language. SANTANGELO (M5S). Take the floor, ma'am. Call him back. He gave us squadrists. D'ANNA (AL-A). Not only are you squadronists, but you are also liars. Senator Castaldo allowed himself... MARTELLI (M5S). Again? D'ANNA (AL-A). He was allowed to read the cursus honorum of the positions I held in so many years of politics to show that the speaker was basically paid and experienced prebende that the citizens gave him.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u147	Excuse me, Senator D'Anna, but I would like to refer you to the subject under discussion. We're examining the constitutional bill. So be so kind as to be on the subject of discussion. Mr Paglini (M5S). Just unplug the microphone like you do with us. This is an intervention to be made at the end of the sitting. D'ANNA (AL-A). I just wanted, and not to rehabilitate my goodness, that he doesn't need it... president. Personally, you can intervene at the end of the session. D'ANNA (AL-A). I wanted to remind you that over the last five years, my tax returns amount to 737,000 euros, with 250,000 euros of taxes paid. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I am sorry, but if you are not here, I will have to ask you to postpone your clarification at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u148	I'm done. So I think someone should apologize for defining me as a political parasite - from the Greek - to eat with the Greek. Clearly, political parasitism is about others, whether they are nothing or not, before they enter this House. Let us now come to the subject. AIROLA (M5S). Now it explains why you didn't vote last year and this year you did. D'ANNA (AL-A). Now, if you stay calm, I'll explain it to you at least twice, because it takes at least twice to make you understand. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'anna, speak to the presidency. You must speak to the Presidency and not to Senator Airola. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Airola must also speak to the Presidency. D'ANNA (AL-A). I will repeat myself more than once so that Senator Airola can also understand. So, be quiet and good and don't be excited. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You too should speak to the Presidency and be quiet. D'ANNA (AL-A). Always. I enlighten myself at your sight, Madam President. Don't worry. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't demand it. D'ANNA (AL-A). It is my subjective feeling that arises spontaneously. Mr Paglini (M5S). And these are the constitutionalists? D'ANNA (AL-A). So, if there is still the possibility in this House of exercising freedom of speech and thought, let us come to the issue that concerns us most. I have been one of the most ferocious critics of this reform and I repeat point by point all the criticisms I have made to it. I will not dwell on the concepts, because they are in the Senate and those who think they should read them again can do so quietly. What's changed? The reform has not changed, my judgment has not changed, obviously I cannot change my vote. However, he is aware that he is lying to anyone in this troubled Chamber who believes that the reform of the Senate is a normal piece of legislation and that there are even those who are still concerned about constitutional reform as an autonomous thought from other political implications which, when I specified a few weeks ago - and I have been redacted by a large part of the press - have gradually become evident. And what are they? We have a context in which, within both the Democratic Party and the New Right Centre (although with a smaller measure and participation), in short, within the majority that voted for two or three times this reform, there are gaps. This determines in a pedissequa and elementary way the fact that the real game that is played is not the confirmation or rejection of a reform that - as far as I am concerned - remains bad. But it is the verification of the majority that the Renzi Government enjoys at Palazzo Madama and, therefore, of the junction that could be taken at the rejection of this bill, which could lead Italy to early elections. In a country where one day yes and the other also someone reminds us that citizens must be given answers about the economic crisis, unemployment, exodus and those who have put more, there are those who, hiding behind the differences and differences of opinion on the constitutional reform of the Senate, play the game to show that Renzi can be harnessed and conditioned in the continuation of his government activity. And of course also those reformative intentions, which I would call liberal and certainly antithesis with the culture and heritage of the classical left, can be conditioned, which point out that in the last six months, that is, since we discussed the last debate on the reform of the Senate, there have been two genetic mutations both in the center-right and in the center-left. The very fact that we are here as a new parliamentary group and that another parliamentary group was born, that of the Conservatives and Reformists, for a total of twenty-five senators, all coming from Forza Italia, is the proven proof that a genetic mutation is under way in the center-right, with the gloomy dissolution of the Berlusconian leadership and with the abandonment of that revolution that had called so many professionals like me, entrepreneurs and so many others, to follow the path of Berlusconism. Today the mutation brings the center-right under the leadership of the League and Matteo Salvini, that is, a lepenist policy that has nothing to do with - in my humble opinion - neither the liberal principles nor that policy of modernization of the state, of reform of the crypto-socialist state that was in the wishes and intentions of Forza Italia when it was the driving force of the center-right. On the other hand, on the left, what is the mutation? Mr Bersani was concerned whether the votes of the Liberal Democratic Alliance and for the Autonomies, i.e. the votes of the Group referring to Verdini, were decisive or not sufficient. I believe that he makes a mistake, because these votes have already been decisive and sufficient. If there had been no willingness to declare that we will support, as liberals, all the liberal and reformist intentions of a government that no longer has the connotations of the classical left, Renzi could not have folded the minority today. Beyond his beautiful speech, I say to my dear Senator Corsini - to whom I am grateful and from whom I have learned the elegance of the contents and his speeches and quotations - that you had to bend, there already existed a sufficient majority to approve the bill Boschi, to compromises of small cabotage. It is even feared that the citizen indicates those who may be senators but do not elect them, and that they are then elected by the regional councils, reversing the democratic principle that wants the sovereign people to elect and not to indicate, completely overturning political praxis and also democratic common sense. It is 60 million voters who have the power to choose, and not 200 regional councillors who should do something else and think about the problems for which the people have chosen them. So, as you can see, we are talking about the same law as six months ago, but we are not in the same condition, and not because there are occult aspirants to enter the PD. We remain in the opposition benches, firm and convinced that liberalism is irreconcilable with socialism. Those who show us the opposite will have our gratitude, but with a cultural and factual confrontation. In conclusion, Madam President, we do not have to consider whether or not we are decisive. We have remained what we were, from the cultural and political point of view: we have only broken false patterns and, as happens to minorities in history, the palingenesis of the right and the left is cited, because when we break the patterns and trenches everyone can find freedom, courage and intelligence to change attitudes that held to the sides and not to the contents. Our vote, as a Group, will then become available every time the Catharsi renziana will transform the action of Government into something different from what would have been the conduct of Berlin, if by adventure Bersani had been the President of the Council, because two antithetical visions of the State, the economy and society clash. You can then find all the summaries - and we hope you find them - but the IMU will come, and you will tell us that the IMU on luxury homes you do not want. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You have to finish, Senator D'Anna. D'ANNA (AL-A). I shall conclude, Madam President. Tax cuts will come, and you will come and tell us that there is the redistribution of wealth and you want the asset; the reform of justice will come, and you will be tetragonal against the maintenance of the status quo of insinability, infungibility and intangibility of prosecutors even when they err and abuse their powers. You want to, how many arguments will come to this House, but not because we hope that the Democratic Party will break! We hope instead to be able to compete to realize what we have deluded ourselves to be able to realize with Silvio Berlusconi: we are always the same and we are not for sale, because ideas do not sell, indeed, we have to sell to others. [[Applause from Senator Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u149	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u150	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, unlike other colleagues in the centre-right, I will not have to do rhetorical exercises to justify a vote different from that of a year ago (nor, like those in Forza Italia, which have to justify a vote contrary to the one in favour of last year, or like some others, which must instead justify a vote in favour of a vote against or not in last year). My speech will therefore focus only on the reasons why the draft law before us must be considered inadmissible and in any case not acceptable. The first plea concerns the method by which the draft law was proposed, since the first reading last year. It was clear from the outset that the Government was aiming to unilaterally impose its own model of reform and that neither this House nor the House would be the places for serious, loyal and constructive confrontation. Some of us thought, before checking the implementation of this imposition, that this would be a constituent legislature and that we could really participate in a democratic and plural restyling of our Constitutional Charter. They have been pious illusions: since July last year the confrontation has been denied, in the name of taking or leaving. The automatic consequence of this perverse method was to transfer any remaining chance of amending the text only in the parliament, in fact, in what we called the "bicameralina" of PD. For the Premier, in fact, the only anxiety could come only from a hypotized stretching - so far never verified, to the truth - between senators and deputies of his harmonious party. Solved this doubt, any further debate and any further confrontation, even if expected covenantly, as it was up to a few months ago, in the case of the so-called Nazarene, have failed or in any case have been largely disregarded or exempted (the direction of the PD, therefore, as a successive institutional grammar of the Chamber and the Senate). No one would ever have thought it would come to this. All this is in line, however, with what everyone now calls the Renzian storytelling, which is the plot of every action and decision of the Government. In the same way, moreover, good school was approved: even in that case the unilateral and unchangeable choices of the Government prevented all the actors in the world of the school from being able to express their thesis, to be able to change a law of reform to which it was sacred could give their contribution of ideas and proposals. Today, a few weeks after its application, many teachers are still missing in the classrooms and many pupils - this is the most serious thing - are still waiting for their irreplaceable support teacher. With an even more rugged procedure, but with the same ratio, it has been hastily decreed the end of the Provinces, with a law that bears the prestigious name of Minister Delrio. The narration of the President-in-Office of the Council made the electoral citizens believe - you will remember, we were on the eve of the Europeans - that the Provinces would no longer be there and that their competences would be scientifically distributed between regions and municipalities. It wasn't like that. It is now discovered that the role of the Provinces in some matters has not been reallocated to any other entity. Speaking of Provinces, I would point out that in this draft law the Provinces lose only the nature of constituent bodies. Indeed, as Professor Portaluri pointed out during the hearing in the Commission, the fourth paragraph of Article 40, as approved by the Chamber, introduces the large-area entities which, in some way, would be surrogates of the present Provinces. If we then add to this that the metropolitan areas, instead, remain constituent bodies, it follows that we will have, on the one hand, 18 million Italians - about 30% - who will be represented and administered by four constituent bodies (State, Regions, metropolitan areas and Municipalities), while the remaining part of the population will refer only to three of them and also this is really an absurd from the legal point of view. It is inevitable to ask whether this is consistent with Article 5 of the Constitution itself. Similar considerations could take place on the process of approving the jobs act: in that case, too, we recorded the holding of a small congress of the Democratic Party. In this regard, I note that today the newspapers report the attacks of the president of the Region of Puglia Emiliano, who accuses the Government of having taken 3.5 billion from the European funds for the South in order only to finance the measures that accompany the jobs act. This means that the internal debate in the Democratic Party continues even after the adoption of the same law. One could continue, citing the case of the tragic approval of Italicum, a few hours before the election of President of the Republic, with the inevitable tactics resulting, or the D iktat of the Government that accompanied the whole process of approval of the reform of the public administration. Each of the measures mentioned has a common denominator: the Premier announces a reform, imposes its approval without yielding to the parliamentary confrontation and then tells the Italians that everything has changed, except then to be denied by the reality of every day, in which there is still a still country, which is struggling to avoid ending up in the area of retrocession, among the European countries most in distress, as the data on the GDP of the countries of the euro area say. These are just a few considerations on the unacceptable method used by the Government to obtain approval of the constitutional reform. If we then go to the merits, the picture does not change at all. Firstly, the most disturbing finding concerns the combination between Italicum and the Boschi bill. In fact, thanks to this perverse architecture, in the next elections the list that will be awarded the majority prize to the House will express the Head of Government, elect the President of the Republic, control the appointment of eight constitutional judges out of fifteen. This model of government and administration of the State conflicts with every democratic criterion and certainly with the same fundamental principles as our Constitutional Charter. I will not dwell here on the vexed question of the electivity of the Senate, about which too much has been said in recent months, also because we, as the Conservative and Reformist Group, have proposed - if that is the problem - even the elimination of the Senate. I would add, however, that one of the virtues of the reform, according to the Rentian account, that of the double duty without charges, concerning mayors and regional councillors, is a great mockery. Those who have made the mayor and the regional councilman know well that a double role is improbable, unless you want to be the mayor to Marino: in that case you could replace the multiple vacations in America with the commitment of senator. I remember that, at the hearing, the city council member of the Lombardy region Massimo Garavaglia said that he systematically represents the Region at the State-Regions Conference because the president of the Lombardy Region cannot go there because he is engaged by other more serious tasks that concern his presidency. Imagine that, according to this reform, that president should come and be a senator for several days a month. One of the aspects that makes the analysis of this reform particularly negative is the amendment of Article 117 of the Constitution. According to some commentators, from competing legislation between the State and the Regions we will move to two competing legislation, one of which will in turn be divided into eight forms of concurrent legislation. There's nothing to say, a beautiful masterpiece: we wanted the elimination of competing legislation and instead multiplied it. It certainly cannot be said that the shortcomings of the reform of Title V of 2001 are therefore resolved by this text; indeed, many constitutionalists say, conflicts will be numerous in the future. Many others are the defects that could be highlighted in the merit of this reform, mitigated only by the achievement of the small goal of the end of the perfect bicameralism. Much of the press, even the pro-Florence press or otherwise not prejudiced against, in the last few days has been practiced with profit on the subject. For our part, as Conservatives and Reformists, we have tried several times to bring the discussion on the merits of the individual amending proposals, fed up, as we were and as we are, to witness the continuous derby of PD. So far, no concrete response has come to us or to the other parliamentary groups. However, in our case it would be a question of discussing serious proposals, worthy of further consideration, as many of the Group's colleagues have mentioned. Our most significant amendments are aimed, for example, at the introduction of the tax ceiling in the Constitution, at the infrastructural equalization (which means putting together parts of the country that are detached, that have large deficits from the point of view of infrastructure and a considerable delay), at the introduction of the primary ones, which is another very topical issue. However, it is concerned that such dense and innovative ideas are too bold for a reform plan which aims to formally amend dozens of articles of the Constitutional Charter - I repeat, formally - by changing very little of it. It's the usual story of the songbird that we'll never get used to and never get to. [[Applause from the CoR Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u151	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u152	Madam President, I will be brief and I will not use all the time I have available for two reasons. The first is that I remain consistent with my opposition to this provision, as I expressed myself at first reading in this House, unlike those who have adapted to the Premier's wishes. The second reason is that this reform, should it ever enter into force, would be operational when, if in 2020, 2021 or 2023, there must be coordination with regional local elections. So, the Senate today suffers the sale of democracy in this country. This reform has not been expected for seventy years, as stated by Minister Elena Boschi; it would not have been possible having entered into force only on 1 January 1948, after dark years for the freedom of this country. But we must run, there is a hurry in this Government to suppress democratic and parliamentary balance; there is a hurry in the Government to create a supply chain of power and interest that starts from the municipalities and, passing from the Regions, reaches the Senate. The aim is to cut the representation of citizens by drastically reducing the number of representatives in the Senate; worse, it is proposed that future senators be the result of a feudal chain of the territorial interests of the parties. I believe, unlike what is proposed, that the full implementation of the fundamental principles contained in the Constitutional Charter is reflected in the direct election of representatives by voters and not in spotty choices within the parties. Breaking the bicameralism, replacing it with a senate of yes men means giving decision-making power to a few or, worse, in the hands of only one. In a Europe whipped by strangleholds of authoritarianism, of barbed walls that separate human beings from other human beings fleeing from wars and terror, this reform also puts at risk the democratic holding of Italy. This reform calls on the voter to vote only once to elect the regional councillors; in turn they will choose the senators, with proportional method, from among their members. But have we forgotten that only three years ago 18 regional councils out of 20 were investigated by the judiciary, by arrests and scandals that have shown a political class thief and corrupt? You are giving parliamentary immunity to seventy-four regional councillors and twenty-one mayors, who as in a video game will receive a bonus to be catapulted directly to Parliament. The hundred senators who enter will enjoy the healings of the honourable Members: they cannot be searched, intercepted and arrested without permission from Palazzo Madama. Regulatory plans, shop openings, building concessions, internal appointments, public order management: how much competence is assigned to mayors and how much advantage are you granting to those who will use their mandate to commit crimes, more or less consciously? I think that organised crime, which often pollutes the choices of the first citizens, as Roberto Saviano has repeatedly tried and denounced, is now happy with this reform. We accept power with the excuse of cutting spending, destroying the roots of the Constitution, negotiating the terms of the reform not in Parliamentary terms, with its Commissions, but in the direction of the Democratic Party or worse in the talk shows and social networks. The Constitutions - and ours is not an exception - are living and vital matter, which evolves continuously and which in some historical phases require some changes in order to adapt them to a new and changed context. However, if these changes are not carried out with great care and respect, they can end up betraying the original constitutional spirit. This Senate does not need reforms, but honest people chosen directly by the people. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senators Bignami, Campanella and Candiani).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u153	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u154	Madam President, we all know what parties are, because we belong to political movements and political parties. The political parties know that they have never loved the rules, have never asked for the recognitions (like the unions) and have always preferred to operate with the widest and widest autonomy. We know how life works within parties. Each party has a statute and every statute is different; but there are similarities and, if you will allow me, I will make paradoxes to make clear the danger of certain paths. Suppose that a "leader" inside a party can control the cards - because that's the case - and impose himself by taking it in his hand. Let us suppose, then, that this party has the electoral fortune to impose itself and to get its hands on the institutions as well. The first thing this party does, normally, is to change the electoral law. Why is it so important to change the electoral law? Because that is what will allow you to go downhill, eliminating all the obstacles that could arise. The example of what happened a few days ago in Greece, to show the perversion that can be derived from an electoral system, comes to mind. An electoral system can even distort the will of the people. In Greece he wins a party - Syriza - with 35% of the votes and goes to the government in coalition with another small party. The electoral law therefore rewards a party that has obtained 35% of the votes, which decides - I might even be happy because the Northern League Group is also on Eurosceptic positions - exactly the opposite of the majority of the popular will of Greek citizens: let us not forget, in fact, that 60% of Greek citizens are in favour of staying in the European Community. We can thus understand how an electoral system can even distort and completely alter the will of a country. Let us return to our electoral law and continue to assume that the ducetto that controls the cards, that wins, that puts his hands on the party and that he has the electoral fortune to put his hands on the institutions, also approves an electoral law on the kind of Italicum, that is to say that two thirds of the members of the parties that form the majority of that Assembly that will decide essentially everything are chosen within the governing bodies and, therefore, appointed by the same ducetto that the party holds. Everyone else is blackmailable, because either you follow the line of the majority, or blackmail is the dissolution of the Chambers to go to the polls, with the consequence that the dear gentlemen present in the famous blacklist will have to greet the institutions forever. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] There is no doubt that this path will lead to the formation of a single chamber executive and, therefore, we will have a government essentially monocolored. What happens to the absolute majority of a House when one goes to make one of the most important choices of guarantee, namely the election of the President of the Republic? The party with an absolute majority will be entitled to request the appointment of the President of the Republic and, therefore, will appoint its Head of State. What happens if all the rest of the Constitution is not changed by the introduction of weights and counterweights? The majority of that House and the President of the Republic will appoint all the high offices of guarantee and the highest courts: the high courts, the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Quick summary: the majority (let's call the political family) takes over the legislative, appoints its own Executive and controls the majority of the judicial system. Is there - or still exists - in such a system the principle of separation of powers, which is a cornerstone of our constitutional system? Excuse me, but speaking in this context of Montesquieu is tantamount to uttering a blasphemy. We will no longer be able to quote Montesquieu, nor to say that we are in a system of separation of powers, ergo in a democratic system. But where are we going? We understand, at this point, that there is a large concentration of powers. Let us read what we have written in the reform that we are examining: let us go even further towards state centralism. The corrections made to Title V provide less legislative power to the Regions: in fact the ordinary Regions are completely stripped of the concurrent legislative power. We who come from the regions with special status could also say that all in all to us it went well. But it didn't go well for nothing. If we go to see, when there is an agreement for the modifications of our special statutes, if the understanding is not found, the replacement power of the Government is triggered. What does our power matter at this point? It is a power of veto, if we want, or not to sign the agreement, when, in any case, the agreement not found finds the Government that replaces itself and that will decide. Now, friends of the autonomouss, let's raise the antennae, otherwise we all fall into the same abyss. We should then feel outraged - here I am addressing every single senator - that the gentleman I mentioned earlier also sets the dates and says that he wants this reform to be adopted by a certain date, that is, by 15 October; he also sets the time limits for work in this House. Where has the autonomy of this House gone? We must speak quickly and we must speed up the time, because he, without hearing any reason, wants the reform to be approved by that date. If I did not refer to what is happening right now, how would you define a regulatory path of this kind? In our opinion, if we want to remain in the wake of democracy, everything must be changed. I add one last and not negligible detail. We have always indulged the same gentleman who wanted the reform of the public radio service. What happens now in RAI? The Government plus the Chamber will appoint six sevenths (the vast majority) of RAI's board of directors, plus the president and CEO of RAI. The Management Board and the Managing Director will appoint all head offices and all network directors. The same family that will express the majority in a single chamber, because the Senate will no longer affect trust and relations with the Government, appoint high judicial offices, appoint the President of the Republic and appoint all the leaders of the public information service. Colleagues of the majority, under blackmail or not under blackmail, are you realizing what hands we put this country in? Today he may be your boss, but tomorrow he may be your most bitter opponent. The electoral law is in fact like a dress: if you do it customized, you risk that today is good for you, but that, getting fat or slimming, tomorrow that dress will be good for someone else. We're on a path of absolute danger. If there are still free men, you have to have the courage to say that this reform has nothing to do. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Campanella, Casaletto, De Pin and Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u155	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I will not delay to outline the characteristics of this reform, because we are aware of it, we have talked a lot about it, and I believe that it is a matter of detail in relation to the spirit which informs it. In my opinion, the first question that we have to ask ourselves is whether this reform attacks the criticalities in the management of public affairs, which have been denounced by several parties, or whether it merely protects the political class - not everything, but in the first place the one in closer contact with economic power - from the interference of the governed citizens, because they are taking themselves to this level. Therefore, citizens, who hold sovereignty, are somehow locked away from the palaces of the institutions. When we started discussing the revision of the Constitution it was not yet clear whether the Government would be able to impose a highly majority electoral reform: I recall that we were talking about a coalition award, a majority in small colleges and preferences. I also recall that the debate on the electoral law was transferred from the Senate to the Chamber of Deputies, with the intention of approving it quickly and giving it a certain sign, certainly at the will of the Democratic Party, but also of other formations, which had an interest in such a law. Already at that time, many argued that the combined arrangement of de facto monocameralism - of this, in fact, it is: the Senate, as some colleagues have anticipated, at this point could easily be removed from the institutional framework and the effects would not be seen, in the final architecture that will come out at the end of the reform - and a hyper-majoritarian electoral law would transform the formal Constitution of this country into something else, which I would call "differently democratic." Today, with the Italicum giving a majority prize that turns a relative electoral majority into an absolute and stable parliamentary majority, we can say that all extreme predictions have been exceeded. You see, colleagues, the attempt at constitutional revision put in place by the government and carried on - I am sorry to say - by the Democratic Party, at other times it would have been commonly described as "exversive" - would have been and still would have been now - had it not been prepared for years of propaganda, carried on with all the available media, to be flaunted today with a rather brazen arrogance, in the parliamentary classrooms and in the videos. When I speak of arrogance, I refer, for example, to the President-in-Office of the Council, who goes so far as to say that where the presidency of the Senate had to resolve itself in a certain way, with regard to the indication of the admissible amendments, then the Chambers should be convened. Perhaps we represent ourselves in a somewhat excessive way: we are not yet at the monarchy. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Simeoni]] Again... I want to quote an article by Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa of 2003: when I talk about a propaganda battage, continued for decades, I refer to what I am about to read. In continental Europe, a comprehensive programme of structural reforms is now to be found in the fields of pensions, health, the labour market, school and others. But it must be guided by a single principle: to attenuate that diaphragm of protections that in the course of the twentieth century have progressively removed the individual from direct contact with the hardness of life, with the reverses of fortune, with the sanction or reward to its defects or qualities. Cent, fifty years ago - it is always Padoa-Schioppa who speaks - work was necessary; good health, gift of the Lord; the care of the old, act of family pity; promotion in the office, recognition of a merit; the title of study or apprenticeship of trade, expensive investment. Let me read it another way: that the poor be poor, the farmer the farmer. Basically here there is the wish to return to "I Malavoglia" of Verga! How should these marvelous structural reforms be achieved? Perhaps the citizens may disagree with this kind of change. Now let's see. In the construction of a constitutional order, since the time of the collapse of the ancient regime - we are talking about the French Revolution - when the king had in himself all three powers (executive, legislative and judicial) he tried to share the three powers between different organs, placed each to avoid the excessive expansion of the others. Moreover, it seemed useful to avoid excessive concentrations of power, associating strong Executives only with strong decentralizations and controlled Executives when the State was centralistic. The amendment proposed by the Renzi Government subverts all these rules: it puts together a strong centralization towards the State of the powers of the Regions and towards the Executive of the powers of the State and it could be continued remembering that with the law of reform of the public administration many of the functions of the Council of Ministers have been centralized in the hands of the President of the Council and the coordination of the peripheral offices of the State has been strengthened in the prefectures. In all this is the case to remember this must be added the grip on the possibility of presenting laws of popular initiative. If all this answers to the truth, one question arises: why is the Democratic Party, which led the campaign against the constitutional revisions of 2005, so determined today to have Parliament approve a reform that disfigures the Republic as designed by the Constitution of 1947? A reform that does not limit itself to sterilizing the Senate - beware, not to abolish it - leaving a useless source of cost, leaving alive a larva of House, but that, for a succession of interconnected mechanisms - about which my colleagues have spoken before: the election of the guarantee bodies, for example - weakens the system of guarantees that has allowed Italy to enjoy a free democracy, albeit imperfect, even if blocked, among thousands of international obstacles, for more than sixty years (not seventy, Minister)? What moves the Democratic Party to declare, at the mouth of its leading leadership, that for seventy years it has been expecting a revision of the Constitution what is this, that is, to try to change it from even before it was approved? To distance themselves from the Constitution of 1947 and the institutional architecture that draws, when the forces that created the Democratic Party, the anti-fascist popular parties of the Second World War are the first parents, the first authors of the Constitution? What moves the Democratic Party to pursue the amendment of the Constitution with a procedural ease that is resistant to any critical consideration? Do we want to talk about how the votes of individual senators are sought, with promises that very little of politicians have? The desire for an unqualified electoral investiture to enable the Democratic Party, the future party of the nation, to carry out the programme that will be decided at its meetings, some of which are also visible in streaming, but which are not in keeping with the will of the voters? Is it possible that they are the desires of international finance, which sees in the letter of the Constitutions, in the letter of our Constitution, an obstacle to the expansion of the free market? I would like to quote a very well-known report by JP Morgan, which states that the political systems of the periphery of Europe have been established as a result of dictatorship and have been defined by that experience. These Constitutions - according to JP Morgan - tend to show a strong socialist influence that reflects the political force that leftist parties have gained after the defeat of fascism. Political systems around the periphery typically have some of these characteristics: weak leadership, weak central states in relation to the Regions, constitutional protection of workers' rights (even) and the right to protest if unwanted changes are made to the political status quo. Colleagues, is it helpful to remember that the great economic interests looked favorably at fascism in the early stages of its history? The first party to obtain the majority with this system would rule without limitation and not only for five years because, as the Democratic Party does now, it would obtain from the information system an accomplice and benevolent representation of its own choices of government and the results of these choices, with the result of prolonging its permanence in power. Is it certain that the Democratic Party will win the election after a ballot that would oppose the 5 Star Movement? Of course, from the promises that government leaders are making to the right and to the left to get votes in the Senate they would say yes. And to say that the hypothesis of correction of the system respectful of the spirit of the Constitution had been made (reduction of the number of parliamentarians, specialization of the activity of the two Chambers), but the government needed to put its feet on the plate and to establish its absolute control over the whole system, to overcome the system of liberal guarantees to make all structural reforms and to present itself ready to the demands of the institutions to guard the austerity. Well, if that's the case, we're not. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, De Pin and Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u157	She is registered to speak Senator Simeoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said about this draft constitutional law, but I believe that the most paradoxical issue is how we were dragged into this House to vote on it. The method used suggests that the agreements to change the Constitutional Charter take place in the good parlors of Largo del Nazareno and Palazzo Grazioli; the opinions and arguments expressed by parliamentarians, in the Commission and in the Chamber, are relegated to mere formalities, indeed to annoying complications; the parliamentary debate seems to have become only a burden for the country; the only need is to launch reforms at the pace of an industrial production. The question I ask myself, however, is this: since our President-in-Office is not talking to Parliament, he is not listening to associations, he is not listening to trade unions, he is not taking care of the opinions of the citizens, can we know who he consults with in order to make these reforms? With your European friends? With the industrialists? So what good is this Parliament any more for? Instead of reforming the Senate it would be better, at this point, to abolish it and turn it into a museum, as someone has rightly suggested in recent weeks. Given the beauty of these halls, we will certainly give a better service to the citizenship, also making a good profit. In quoting the qualities of a politician often refers to his competence, but I also consider his independence to be equally important. Well, with this amendment to the Constitution, the independence of the Senate will be completely reset and this is very serious, given the importance of the issues on which the future senators will be called upon to decide. You ask us to turn this institution into a parking lot with the help of characters who will appear in Rome just to make a catwalk and ratify what is decided at Palazzo Chigi, not to mention that these so-called otherwise elected will enjoy parliamentary immunity (a privilege that the Constitution provided only for those who were elected by the people) and will receive generous reimbursements at the expense of taxpayers, without having to report a penny. This has become the Italian institutions: a great TV show to embarrass the people, while in the secret rooms the fate of our unfortunate country is decided. Citizens will be defrauded more and more of the possibility of intervening in the political life of the country: besides being unable to vote for their representatives in the Senate, it will be made more difficult to present referendums as well. In the last few hours we have been talking about the Tatarella praise, an agreement that aims to throw further smoke in the eyes of the already confused voters. I am truly outraged by this Government, which continues to find new ways of circling and confusing public opinion. Every trick and trick is useful in masking the truth, that is, that the new Senate will become a peripheral seat of the PD secretariat. And all this nonsense happens in the absolute silence of the President of the Republic, or rather of the current President of the Republic, who should be the guardian and guarantor of the Constitution, but he also seems to have abdicated in favor of the dictator Renzi. In conclusion, Madam Senators and Senators, I would like to say that the only provision with which I can agree with this reform is Article 67. In fact, the sentence is deleted from this article: Each Member of Parliament shall represent the Nation. After the adoption of this law, Members of Parliament will represent only their interests and their parties. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u159	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u160	Madam President, I don't know if you noticed, but the President of the Council, Renzi, often keeps his hands in his pocket; and someone told me that maybe he likes to bully or just...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u161	Senator Endrizzi, I say to you, also in relation to the previous intervention, that those who hold institutional positions need to be treated with some respect, even in language, just as all senators must rightly claim to be treated.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u162	Yes, Madam President, but there is also respect for the truth. I have a strong suspicion that Renzi actually keeps his fingers crossed while he's talking to us. On this reform, in fact, I have heard such a lot of mystifications and reversals of reality really impressive and that are justified only by considering very different scenarios from those declared. For example, in the initial phase of his proposal, Renzi described this reform as a cost cut in politics. Well, we didn't miss proposals in this sense, to go even further, to dare more and achieve a better result. We have proposed, rather than halving and bringing only one hundred senators, to do the same in the House; the saving thus increases. We have proposed that the parties should also pay their salaries and funds. It is possible, and we have shown it. Above all, let us touch the fight against corruption, because today a politician does not cost for the salary that he perceives as many for the bad choices that perpetuates. When a Regional Council and a Parliament have disastrous laws for the country they are causing damage beyond their pay. We told Renzi that in order to fight corruption we propose systems, such as the limit of two mandates, because if a parliamentarians does not take root they do not form those cobwebs, like the spider with the drool. If he does not bind himself to certain powers, his action will be freer and more responsive to the citizens. For the same reason, it is important that the citizens elect Members directly and that mechanisms of direct democracy are introduced. The European countries, but also outside Europe, like the United States, which have mature and accomplished direct democracy instruments, also have greater prosperity, because the choices are exactly the same as the people's will and the needs of the people. It does not happen, or it does not happen so much, that the parties merge between the popular will and the legislation or administrative choices that are taken. As I have already said on another occasion, between popular will and government action, the parties are like the saboteur who unscrews the handlebars of the bike: the people say "we go right" and the bike goes where it wants. Are we sure we get the desired result? And why did Renzi reject the dialogue and our proposals, even when they went in the direction he outlined? Then he says: We need a more productive, faster Parliament that reads faster. We had examples of the opposite necessity, with the Fornero law, for example; we had praise of every nature to save Berlusconi, who always had a preferential lane and got to the bottom. Then I wonder if bicameralism really is responsible: perhaps an extra bicameral passage would have allowed instead to avoid those pitfalls. Even in this legislature we saw it when we voted on the amendment to favour gambling lobbying and punish the mayors "no-slots ": if we had not been in a bicameral regime, the omelette would have been accomplished. As Curzio Rufo said, haste is a cause of delay: sometimes, when we touch people and their lives, maybe we have to think for a second. Another lie is that we are too slow: if we go to see the legislative production of this Parliament in the previous parliamentary term, but also in this parliamentary term, we are on the level of Germany, and perhaps even beyond. Why? If we consider the omnibus decrees for what they are, that is, a fruit salad of different laws, perhaps the formal number should be greatly expanded. This is therefore not a slow, lazy Parliament; if anything, government action is lazy, because on hot issues one would really expect a strong initiative, especially at international level. Just to give an example, I quote the situation of the refugees and the shameful renegency of the Member States of the EU, without having so far moved a finger the great Commissioner Mogherini, who, according to Renzi, should have been our secret weapon (in fact, "deadly," I suggest: yes, but for whom?). On productivity we had made our proposals: for those who have good memory, they were the same ones that Renzi had married in full at a certain stage of his political ascent. Five years ago, at Porta a Porta', as a placekeeper to win positions within the PD and public opinion, he said it was time to end it with those who change shirts; they have every right to change their minds, but the citizens have the right to respect the electoral mandate. This is the solution to make Parliament faster and more cohesive: if there is a majority, this must be maintained. We should have intervened on the mandate and made it not complete, but restrictive, to the point that, if, at a certain time, the majority that has appeared to the citizens is no longer represented by the people whom that mandate has received, we must return to vote. Instead, another hypocrisy, precisely this reform, which Renzi says he wants to achieve for speed, does it with the turncoats, with the purchase of votes that is allowed him by the fact that, for example, we have not yet been summoned to vote on the renewal of the positions of President, Vice President and Secretary within the Commissions. Clearly, until this happens, Matthew Renzi has a bargaining chip in his hand. Then, a question: will the turncoats really vote for a constitutional reform that will reduce their power in the future? Are we really naive enough to think that? There we had to intervene and our proposals were all rejected, not even with one vote, but, before that, leaving an embarrassing silence, even simply under discussion. Renzi then says that there is no coup in place or on the horizon, but beware: we have a text of the Government, carried on in forced stages, with the boots nailed and with the times of the Government, a text that provides for the centralization of powers. But then we cannot deny the facts and the evidence because, as they say also in Africa, it is not necessary to indicate the elephant with the finger. Others before me have said - and I will not repeat myself - what are the risks of seeing the guarantee bodies, as well as the parliamentarians, actually appointed by a party secretary. Other hypocrisies concern, for example, the reform of Title V. They wanted to call it the Chamber of Autonomouss. This name has then been corrected in the course of the work, even if it returns to the journalistic level in the statements of these days, in which we talk about the Chamber of the autonomous and to give more space to the Regions. Well, in the reform of Title V this space is contracted, while in terms of competences the future Senate, composed of regional councillors, is denied the possibility of intervening, for example, on the public finance of local administrations. That is the hard core of the matter. Regions need to get in a House to discuss how resources should be distributed on national territory. Today we have heard of infrastructure equalization: this is an important issue, as well as that of taxation. Why should the Senate of Autonomies be deprived of legislative competence on these issues? There's no explanation, except the one we have in front of a big screen. The biggest element of screen and mystification, however, is the fact - and I close, President - that the reforms serve the country: it would be really unbecoming, in a situation in which employment starts again a little bit and there is an economic recovery, interrupting everything. Except it's not democratic to say: Do as I say, or everyone at home. It is not democratic because, implicitly, when it comes to voting for an exchange vote, Members who have not yet completed their pension are being blackmailed, but above all, something is being attributed to others that may be in the very intentions of Matteo Renzi. Matteo Renzi knows very well that the straw fire of recruitment will soon be extinguished; even that minimal benefit of the jobs act on recruitment is based on public resources, incentives that will be less than three years from now. We are talking about three years - we all understand, even children - after the elections at the end of the parliamentary term, if we get there. So Matteo Renzi is gonna get his consent on a bluff that's gonna be exposed the next day. There is, however, another more short-term aspect and I wonder if Matteo Renzi really wants to do the things he also says in economic terms to strengthen the recovery. Matteo Renzi knows very well that in China there has been a financial collapse, with the bags that have lost 20% in a short time; and we all know that this will have a long wave of six to nine months so in spring the knots will come to the comb and what he is telling us, the pills of optimism that dispense, are poisoned. I wonder, then, whether he really wants to carry out this unnecessarily irritating, unnecessarily and pervicaciously contrary to common sense and stated objectives. Even if he did, he will probably find another pretext, another chance of accident, created by art, to go anyway to the elections and, before the truth can emerge, play like a skilled gambler, that is a gambler, the all in: I play everything, in spring elections and referendum confirmation; I hold all the power and at that point I don't know what will happen. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u163	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fornaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u164	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of a task that makes your wrists tremble, that of putting your hands on the Constitution and reforming it, I think we need to stop and think, because to know where you want to go you have to be aware of where you come from, of the path that has led us to this point. It is inevitable to go back to the Constituent's debate, between 1946 and 1947, to a Constitutional Charter that was born as a synthesis of deeply different cultures, of deeply different personal stories. We must not forget this: that Constitutional Charter is the highest legacy of the Resistance. So it is clear that one cannot fail to feel - I personally feel it - an inadequacy in relation to this task. Well, just by re-reading the speeches of those years, I believe that help is also found for today's work, although almost seventy years have passed since those moments. Meuccio Ruini, on 22 December 1947, giving to the House the work of the Commission of the 75, said words that I believe are useful to understand how this Constitution can and must be reformed, and that there is no intangibility of the Constitution. Ruini said to the House: While giving our Constitution a rigid character, as the protection of democratic freedoms requires, we have allowed a review process that requires meditated reflection, but that does not crystallize it in a static immobility. There is a way to change and correct with sufficient freedom of movement. And so it will happen; the Constitution will gradually be perfected; and it will remain the definitive basis of Italian constitutional life. We ourselves - and our children - will remedy the gaps and defects that exist and are inevitable. I believe that this helps us to understand the task we have and strengthens us in the need to approach the Constitutional Charter with due respect, but also with the need to make it appropriate to changing times. What has been lacking - I believe we must be aware of this in critical and self-critical terms in these months, beyond the will - is the constituent spirit, and the responsibilities for this are of various parts. From this point of view I call for a full constituent spirit in the document which, together with twenty-four other colleagues, we presented more than two months ago; it was a document designed to be a constructive contribution to the drafting of a Constitutional Charter and an amendment to this Constitution. Here, too, Meuccio Ruini comes to my rescue, who said on the same day: "A Constitution cannot be the work of one or very few. It must result from the will of all the representatives of the people; and the representatives of the people do not lead by violence. The only way, in democracy, to win is to convince others. From this point of view, I believe that what followed, for example, the presentation of our document, with attacks and warnings on many issues, is also part of the harshness of the political debate. What I would, however, like to clearly reject here is the idea that this document was an instrument not only to obstruct, but even more to undermine the Government. Well, I think we need to be very clear about this with ourselves. The reform of the Constitutions, throughout the civil world, is the task of the parliaments and the role of the Government should be different. In this case too, I would like to mention a precedent. The words are those of Alcide De Gasperi, who, after the approval of the final text, on December 22, said: It was not without a sense of envy that we saw our colleagues in the legislative committees dealing with the great problems of the Constitution, I would say, throwing down the great arches of the Constitution, while we, from everyday needs, were forced to deal with small details. It is obvious that we are living in a different situation. Nobody forgets the speech of the then President of the Republic of Naples, at the time of his re-election; but I believe that a proper balance must be found between the role of the Government and the role of Parliament. That document, the "document of the 25," posed a number of questions: the role and functions of the new Senate, the guarantee bodies, the electivity of the new Senate. On the role and functions of the Senate and on the guarantee bodies have already entertained before me colleagues Guerra and Lo Moro and, finally, my colleague Corsini and I will not repeat what they said, also to stay in the ten minutes that we are granted. I would like to go into the subject of the electivity of the new Senate in order to clarify it in the Senate Chamber, because there was an objective new fact with regard to the first reading, which we cannot fail to take into account: the definitive approval of Italicum. It is true: it is an ordinary law, but it is a constitutional law. Italicum has objectively strengthened the role of the House on the ground of governability, with the Premier party that will be able to enjoy the majority prize awarded to the list and no longer to the coalition. A simulation of the future Chamber (based on the 2014 European elections data) shows, in fact, how the vast majority of MPs, about 60%, would be made up of blocked capilists, while only 40% would be chosen directly by voters. The question that every good democrat and lover of the Constitution should therefore ask himself - and which I am putting to your attention today - is as simple as it is right: can a democracy like the Italian one bear a parliament (Room and new Senate elected by the regional councils, as from the text that came out of the Chamber) whose composition, for more than two thirds, would not be determined by voters, in absolute continuity with the so rightly deprecated Porcellum? Can a change in this direction, then, be positive? I believe that the question of the direct election of the Senate, if read in the light of the evaluation of the approval of Italicum, is not a obstructive instrument to take time, but a factor of constitutional balance. From this point of view, in fact, the risk is to deepen a deficit of representation, to distance further - and not to approach, as had been said in the premises - the elector. The lack of representation is the great limit - beyond other negative assessments - of the Porcellum. I shall begin with the conclusion of my speech. There is no incompatibility between an objective absolutely widely shared by this House (the overcoming of the prefect bicameralism, son of another season, of another speed of the economy and, therefore, of the responses that politics must give to the changes) and the elective Senate. A solution can and must be found. It is useless to deny this: from this point of view there has been a significant differentiation also within the Democratic Party Group and I believe that the issue has reached the final core. In other words, we must find a solution that clearly indicates in the Constitution the principle of direct election (or, better to say, the direct choice of the citizen of its representatives), referring the definition of the modalities of this choice to a national law (as was also the case for the Constitution of 1948). All this must be done with the clarity that is due to a text of the Constitution. If there is a merit, beyond the assessments made of the 1948 text, it is precisely the clarity and we must say in a self-critical way that all the interventions made by successive generations (different ones have been made of them) have ended up weighing it down and have not, however, had a character of clarity. From this point of view, in clarity, we can find a solution that does not block reforms because the country needs, among the various interventions, also a revision of the Constitution. I close with the words of the first president of the constituent assembly, Giuseppe Saragat, who, on 26 June 1946, on the occasion of his first speech addressed a warning that I may address to you almost seventy years later. Saragat said, "Make the face of this Republic a human face. Remember that democracy is not only a relationship between the majority and the minority, it is not only a harmonious balance of powers under the control of the sovereign one of the nation, but it is above all a problem of relations between man and man. Where these relationships are human, democracy exists; where they are inhuman, it is but the mask of a new tyranny. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u165	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u166	I communicate that from the prescribed number of senators has received the request to insert in the calendar of the work of the Assembly, pursuant to article 55, paragraph 7, of the Regulation, the information of the Minister of Defense on the mission EUNAVFOR Med. Pursuant to Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, the resolution shall be adopted by vote by show of hands after the intervention of no more than one speaker per group for ten minutes each. As there are no requests for intervention, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal to include the Minister of Defence's information meeting in the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u167	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u168	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) I'm begging the senators to hurry up and get the card. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] There are two senators who have been in this Chamber for some time; I have not understood what the problem is. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] . Senator Mauro Giovanni reports a malfunction of the voting device). All right, their presence will be physically verified. The Senate is not a quorum. Appreciate the circumstances, I'll take the session off.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u169	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-509.ana.u170	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 23 September, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.36.
