ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1678. The rapporteur, Senator Esposito Stefano, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u9	Madam President, the work we have done in recent months on the transposition of European directives allows us today to bring to the Chamber a text to be submitted for the approval of the Assembly which will allow us to modify, through the delegation given to the Government, one of the country's main instruments in the management of public procurement. The 8th Commission has allowed the two rapporteurs to work on the construction of a draft law which directs the writing of a new procurement code and the new regulation. I would like to point out that a procurement code, issued in 2006, and its implementing regulation, issued in 2010, are currently in force. This discrepancy in timing is one of the main reasons why the current procurement regulation instrument has produced many problems in this country, which unfortunately we also see every day thanks to the judicial investigations. Therefore, the work that we are preparing to do, that is, the bill delegates that this Assembly is preparing to debate and dismiss, is a fundamental tool to restore credibility to the country, to have certainty and finally certain costs in the realization of the works; as well as to fight and fight corruption. The first point we have focused on is finally when the decrees will be issued - or better, when the decree implementing this delegation law will be issued, after the passage that will of course be made to the Chamber of Deputies - a procurement code and a contextual implementing regulation, thus avoiding the double timing I mentioned earlier. This is essential to ensure a drastic reduction of the current articles in the Procurement Code, and it is a first element of simplification, which will allow companies to have certainty of the rules and contracting stations to operate within a certain framework of rules and rules. For this reason, the proposed delegation law expressly speaks of abolishing the current procurement code and replacing it with a new code. In all this, we have, of course, been guided by the principles set out in the European directives, which refer very strongly to the issues of competition, administrative simplification and the exploitation of the system of small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to go to a market which, in addition to being a competitor, is also much more effective and efficient. Of course, moving from the European directives we then faced the Italian reality and we planned to overcome that Italian illness of the custody of contracts through the derogation procedures. We know - we see it in the news these days - that the derogations procedures, the urgency and the emergency do not produce quality in public works, but - indeed - are above all a door wide open to corruption. We have paid great attention - I believe the whole Commission has done an excellent job - to recognising very, very limited cases in which these emerging procedures can be used. These are, of course, cases involving urgent civil protection. Here too, however, we propose appropriate mechanisms for public control and traceability of acts carried out through emergency procedures for natural disasters. The issue that comes immediately after this is the harmonisation of the rules on transparency and publicity of procedural and tendering documents. Traceability is an element on which we have focused very much: a traceability that allows us to follow the contract from the moment of its call until the completion of the works. If this proposal is approved, the change will be epochal. We choose, as a procurement mechanism not only preferential but also ordinary, the logic of the tender with the most economically advantageous offer. And let's leave it to the government, who will have to write the decrees that will constitute the new code of contracts, a narrow and defined margin for the use of the procedure of the maximum decrease that - as you know - in this country, for the contracts of employment, has generated many, but really many failures. This is a decisive point in the writing of the new procurement code. We believe that it is necessary to explain carefully that the procedure of the most economically advantageous offer will allow a quality in the realization of the works clearly superior to that that we see today there through races that, very often, arrive to lowers of 60-70 percent. To accompany this process we intervene on the design phase, therefore expressly foreseeing - unlike what can happen today - that the projects put to tender will be executive, overcoming that twist, which our country unfortunately knows too well, of the contracts entrusted through preliminary or final projects. The quality of the project is central to the writing of the new legislation. This is something that I would like to stress to my colleagues. For this reason, we intend to overcome and prohibit the use of the maximum reduction procedure for design contests. If in the realization of a work we begin to build the project with the greatest decrease, it is evident that the rest of the procedure can only be complicated - at best - or fallacious, at worst. Therefore, we also offer a great opportunity to the system of Italian professions, to try on quality and not on price. In order to put a stop to corruption and to help the contracting stations to have qualified competition commissions, we propose that the National Anti-corruption Authority (NAAC) be given the task of setting up within it a national register of competition commissioners, therefore, to qualify these operators. This register will be available to the Italian contracting stations - on the reduction and qualification of the contracting stations I will return later, because it is a fundamental issue - which, when they have to race, will address the DAC, asking for the number of commissioners needed to compose the commission. The ANAC will offer double or triple the necessary names and, at the local location, the contracting station will carry out the draw. This will ensure not only the quality and qualification of operators, which will be dealt with upstream by the national authority itself, but also the fact that they do not have a committee - as they say - in part. This attribution to the DAC also includes a very important work for us, which, moreover, under the direction of Dr. Cantone, has already begun in some way, which is to build up acts of direction and guidelines and, in particular, standard notices, standard contracts and flexible regulatory instruments. This is a fundamental step: being able to have a structure that builds standard tenders and standard contracts, to which the contracting stations must refer, means ending the jungle of contracts made by the individual contracting stations, of their own accord. We must bear in mind that, in our country, the number of contracting stations is not known: the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission speaks of 27,000 contracting stations, others speak of 8,000 and yet others of 36,000. That of their qualification and their reduction is a central topic of discussion, which I hope this House will address. In the Commission we have distorted it, we have been passionate about it, and we believe that we have put forward a proposal, which can of course be improved. And I want to talk about it, because it is one of the issues on which I believe this House can make an extraordinary contribution to their reduction. We know that for years, in all the conferences and various initiatives in this area, we have been talking about the reduction in the number of contracting stations. And, therefore, together with the other rapporteur for the measure, Mr Pagnoncelli, we have put forward a proposal for their drastic reduction, aware of course that we start from it to try to build the conditions for having a functional territorial system, perhaps based on provincial levels, which allows contracting stations to be highly qualified and to be able to prepare calls for tenders corresponding to the necessary elements of simplification and quality. I really urge my fellow Members to read the measure, because it will not be indifferent to the contribution that this House will naturally make to our initial proposal. Another important point is the reduction of the documentary burden on the participating parties. We know that companies today are called to produce paper, paper and paper. Here, we give a series of guidelines for writing the new code, which starts from the reduction but also uses the computer tools as much as possible. Electronic races can be an instrument of great simplification, and that is why we call for an important review of the current AVCPASS system which, if it really works, could be of great support to the business system. Today it does not always work, and the revision of this instrument is a fundamental step in order to be in perfect line with the indications of the European directives and to make Italy a country that does not tarassa the enterprises and guarantees quality in the contracts of the works, supplies and services. For this reason, the procurement procedures of the largest Italian contracting station, CONSIP, require efficiency. Today we know that the largest Italian contracting station is struggling to guarantee an effective service, and especially in certain times. This is a subject on which, of course, Parliament must be criticized, but also those who today have the task and the honour of directing that structure. The other great theme that also concerns the daily news concerns the measures aimed at drastically containing the changes in design in the course of the work, knowing that we must distinguish the design variants related to a bad design, as it happens today. There is no point in complaining about variants when a preliminary draft or a final design of poor quality is brought to the competition. On this we intervene - as I said - by inserting the executive project as the only project to be able to bring into the race, but it is evident that today variants are also the daughters of bad design. With a better quality of the project, with better qualification of the contracting stations and with the type calls written in a timely manner, the variants can be reduced. However - I also want to say this in order to avoid journalistic campaigns that very often tend to give the wrong idea - there are design variants that serve, but they must be demonstrated and justified on time. Today, in the magnum sea where the preliminary and final projects go to competition, the variant is the main instrument. With better projects it will be an exception. The Government has an important task in the writing of the code, in defining with punctuality what these possibilities are. I have told you that the issue of the quality-price ratio, and therefore of overcoming the maximum reduction, is one of the qualifying points, especially as regards overcoming the maximum reduction in public contracts relating to supplies to social services. Let me give you an example. With many colleagues in the Commission - some of whom were, of course, more informed - we have discovered that the greatest drop in this country is also used for the provision of meals for schools, for canteens, for hospitals, and this is not acceptable. Allow me, then, to give you one element: it is clear that the overcoming of the maximum reduction for a whole series of employment contracts, the supply of goods and services produces and will produce an increase in the cost for the public administration, which is using with full hands the maximum decrease for services that should not be treated in this way. But be careful: the apparent increase in initial costs ensures a saving downstream, but above all we - the Commission has unanimously acknowledged this - cannot afford the idea that, behind an economic logic, we pass services that are essential for poor citizens. That is why we also cancel the maximum reduction for labour-intensive service contracts. This has been one of the Italian problems of recent years, and even in this case the public administration has not given a great proof. We know that services have been contracted which concerned, in particular, cleaning in schools, control services in hospitals or personal care services with the greatest decrease. These are services where quality is important, but the real heart of the contract is people, those who work and, therefore, their salary. When there is a fall, in those contracts, of 60-70 percent, it means that it is only on the hourly pay of those who work, besides of course affecting the quality of the service. There have been situations in which workers carry out their activities at EUR 2.50 per hour. With the adoption of this bill, if this House and Parliament consider it acceptable, we will no longer have such a shame. And above all, because in the jungle of contracts that allow us to get to third-world wages responsibilities are widespread, and also among associations representing workers and businesses, in order to help their journey we insert a rule that provides for the application of the best contract that protects the worker, the national contract on the goods sector more favorable to the worker. This is an important step, because you will all remember the theme of the cooperation system that has contributed, over the years, to cleaning up schools - an issue on which a year and a half ago there was a violent debate - but above all we give hundreds of thousands of workers the dignity of a job paid worthily. It is a point on which there has been a not simple discussion with the system of representation of the public administration. But we have to decide whether to spend a review in this country on unnecessary expenses or on the skin of those who work and, above all, on the skin of citizens who have to take advantage of those services. That is the point on which we are called to hold a debate and make a choice. In the Commission, the choice has been made, as the text at your disposal shows. Another great theme that has unfortunately been the subject of judicial reports is the custody of the work through the general contractor. It is a procedure that exists and we have made a drastic choice over it. As you know, today the contractor-general who receives a trust is chosen directly from the director of the work. With the approval of this provision - I emphasize the law of delegation and not of the implementing decree - it will no longer be possible for the works entrusted through the general contractor that the same is chosen the director of the works. For this reason we constitute a register at the Ministry of Infrastructure, which will qualify the director of the works and the contracting stations that decide to entrust, through the general contractor, the realization of a work will have to identify in that register the director of the intense activities, with a wide rotation: it will no longer be possible to have a director of the intense activities engaged on five different yards, appointed from the same contracting station. This is a qualifying point, a fundamental point of innovation and it is accompanied by the register of the testers of the works. We know, in fact, what happens when testers are figures that do not have all the necessary qualities. And the national albums that we are going to set up on the different segments may appear to be a heavy instrument, but it will guarantee quality and that there are - we hope - the problems we have seen in recent months, in particular with regard to the events related to ANAS (viaducts, roads and so on). Allow me one more step on the qualification. We talked about contracting stations, but we also work on the qualification of economic operators and businesses. There needs to be transparency with respect to the technical and professional skills of companies: we can no longer have companies that are not qualified for participation in contracts. This is an effort we are asking for from the business system, but we know that it is in favour of having companies participating in contracts with the right requirements. It must be clear that technical qualification is important, but it is also important to have a legal rating of these companies, which means not only compliance with the penal code, but also dealing with companies that spend their time in construction sites and not in administrative courts; companies that guarantee the certainty of the delivery times of the works; companies that guarantee the payment to subcontractors; companies that apply national employment contracts. It is a request that has come to us very strongly. In this regard, let us add a point that concerns construction in a fundamental way: it will no longer be possible to use foreign contracts paid 40-50 percent less on Italian territory. It is a rule that we are asked for both by workers' organisations and by business organisations. And this is another politically and qualitatively very important fact contained within the proposed procurement code. We now come to a subject which, of course, has been much discussed: organic discipline to entrust concession contracts. We are talking about all the concessions, but we know well - this House has been through an important debate, when we discussed the release of Italy and Article 5 - that in this case, in the transposition of Directive No 23 of 2014, which we apply in full, we make the choice to clearly say that the concessions must be entrusted through a competition. It is not our task to formally overcome Article 5 of the Italian Unlock, but it is clear that in this bill - and I must say that in this respect you have been perfect and total harmony with the Government, with Deputy Minister Nencini and Minister Delrio - we give a very precise signal: the motorway concessions are awarded through race. There is only one alternative option, provided for in the above-mentioned European Directive No 23 - not by Italy - to Article 17: the unceasing assignment of concessions to companies that are 100% controlled by the public. In Italy we only have two cases: we leave the possibility and evaluation to the Government to use Article 17 on these two cases. But we are, however, in perfect harmony with what Europe is planning. There is no derogation procedure defined by Italy. To be clear and transparent, we are talking, in particular, about the Brenner and a rule contained in Article 17. I would like to stress this because all of us in the Commission have discussed it and we agree that it represents overcoming a situation that has created difficulties for us. In this regard, I believe that the work carried out by the Commission and the Government has been productive and finally gives Italy a clear and defined instrument in the field of motorway concessions. To this we accompany another element, that it is to institute also in Italy, for the public dealers and private highways, the obligation to call contests to public evidence for the confidence of the works on the net in concession. As you know, today there is a European regulation that provides for work to be awarded directly without a race for 40% and 60% through a race. But this instrument didn't work. Through it, competition has not been guaranteed and, as one of the most important principles of the European directives is that competition must be guaranteed and expanded, we clearly, clearly and unquestionablely predict that an important market from an economic point of view must be opened and dealers must carry out invitations to tender for the assignment of works (excluding services), while for supplies we leave them an area of independence and autonomy up to 150,000 euros. It is pointless to hide that this is an issue that has created great tensions and on which this House is called to debate. Nor do I hide, while respecting the messages and the signals received, which are all lawful and transparent, that we have made a choice in this regard: a choice of consistency with what I said before compared to the opening, at last, of the market of concessions through public evidence competitions. There is no point in talking about minimum levels of competitiveness if we are not even able to guarantee competitiveness. We want maximum levels of competitiveness, because this country needs it incredibly. As it needs an instrument that already exists in some countries and that we have foreseen in the draft law in question, after many years of discussion: I am referring to the prediction of forms of public debate, that they are certain in their path and guarantee the comparison with local realities when it is decided to create both a large infrastructure and medium-sized works. We discussed how to ensure that this public debate is not only an exercise but also a useful and binding instrument for both the proposer and those who decide to sit at that table to undertake the analysis of the work. On this issue draft laws are embodied in the Commission. Obviously, we give only one direction to the Government because it is not possible to do anything else, but it is a theme of innovation of Italian legislation and, if we can give a certainty, we will make our country take a significant step forward compared to many situations in which it is blocked due to inability, often due to the arrogance of the proposers or the wrong attitudes assumed by the local communities. Madam President, I should like to end by asking my fellow Members to reflect on one point. Unfortunately, we are again going through a stage in which politics is in the newspapers because of the inability to manage public affairs. This morning we begin the discussion on a measure that can drastically change the system of the custody of public works in this country. I hope, President, that the passion, the time and the great quality that 8a The Commission has put it on the table to help Members of this House to dismiss and improve the text, where possible, because we are sure that we have done a lot, but the contribution of this House can be crucial. If we approve a good text, politics could give, beyond membership, an answer, which is not only to divide the 50 cents or the euro on desperate people who arrive in Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Pagnoncelli, Buemi and Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u10	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Orrù is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the draft law of government initiative that we are discussing today and that we are about to vote on, which is more briefly referred to as a delegation to the Government for the reform of the Procurement Code, is the result of a thorough and long work carried out in the 8th Commission and for which I thank the rapporteurs and all my colleagues. The draft law, presented by the Government on 18 November 2014, was reworded in a new text, adopted on 8 April 2015, following the broad discussion in the Commission and the round of hearings of stakeholders. The text starts from the need to implement the European directives following the presentation by the European Commission in 2011 of the so-called public procurement directives package on public procurement and concessions, in order to facilitate the completion and completion of the single market, in implementation of the Single Market Act - Twelve levers. The aim of these directives is to make public procurement procedures simpler and more flexible, to facilitate access to public procurement by companies, particularly medium-sized and small-sized enterprises. The three proposals for directives relating respectively to the award of concession contracts, public contracts and procurement procedures of entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors were approved by the Council and subsequently by the European Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on 18 April 2014, and shall be incorporated into the internal law of the Member States by 18 April 2016. As I mentioned, however, the aim of the measure is wider than mere transposition of directives. In fact, as explained in the explanatory report and as well explained by the rapporteur: The transposition of the new European legislation is an important opportunity to review and rationalise the subject as a whole, in order to create a more streamlined, transparent and effective system necessary to ensure legal certainty in the sector and to ensure effective competition and a level playing field between economic operators. In view of the best practices adopted in other countries of the European Union, the new framework aims, therefore, to offer an approach to procurement and concessions substantially different from the current one. In order to achieve these objectives, the delegation provides for the drafting of a single legislative text called "Code of Public Procurement and Concessions" which will contain the legislative provisions on public procurement and concessions of the three Directives, which have been awaited for a long time and which will finally organically regulate a sector for too long forced to submit to a jungle of rules that are not always consistent with each other. In extreme summary, the main issues addressed and characterising the measure concern: the qualification of the design phase as a fundamental element of connotation and qualification of the subsequent award; the drastic limitation of the tenders to the maximum decrease in opacity and the deviant mechanisms which it brings with it in the field of public works and which frequently determines the compression, sometimes unacceptable, of the working conditions in the cases of works contracts in which the work component is very important, if not prevalent; the systematic and certain third-party of the tendering commissions (in this regard it was also assumed the criterion of extraction by lot of the names drawn from a special register of merit and competence); the drastic reduction of the contracting stations, now in excessive number (it is referred to as over 36,000), and their necessary qualification; the revision of the certification system and the qualification through the SOA, introducing to the basis of the assessment elements of objective criteria and parameters, including the introduction of a soft law, essentially entrusted to the ANAC and expressly devoted to the definition of the standard procedures, from the possibilities, to the legality ratings for the assessment of the central award criteria prior to all-valence, the pre-valence of the conditions prior to the certification of all- More generally, the changes introduced to the basic text, the result of the Commission's work, concerned the timing, content and procedures for exercising the delegation. Particular emphasis is placed on the principles and criteria relating to the simplification of legislative provisions, transparency and the fight against corruption in the field of procurement, as well as those aimed at the enhancement of the design phase, the award of contracts by means of public evidence procedure, the strong limitation of derogations from the code and the exclusion of variants. The minimum requirements required of economic operators to participate in tenders and the criteria for sub-contracting are outlined. In order to make the procurement sector more efficient, criteria are laid down for the interoperability of databases and the use of telematic procedures. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator. ORRU' (PD). Madam President, if you allow me to add the full text of the speech to the Minutes of today's sitting, I shall proceed directly to the conclusions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. I remind you, you still have 30 seconds. ORRU' (PD). Thank you, President. I conclude by saying that finally, with the adoption of the single code on contracts, we put a further piece to the objective assumed by the Government to have the yards restarted in the Country, demonstrating that in Italy you can do public works, those that serve, without corruption and respecting the estimates. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank both the rapporteurs, Senators Stefano Esposito and Pagnoncelli, for their work in the Commission and their willingness to examine in detail the amendments tabled to the House in a reasonable number, given the importance of this measure. Effective rules on procurement procedures are extremely important in a number of respects, including the economic aspect itself, because a well-made contract allows the state and public administrations to have better, faster and cheaper jobs. But it is even more important the positive effect on the market in general, which would consist in generating the conviction that even in Italy, in the works resulting from the granting of contracts by the Government, real competition is possible. Those who work better, and in a more efficient and intelligent way, in order to make the service better, have more opportunity to work, and to work well I think it is more important than the entrailment, friendship, engagement and all those things that feel a little 'at any time, both in daily chatting and in the chronicles and, of these times, also in the judicial chronicles that speak of arrests, investigations and everything else. It is extremely important to overcome all the hiding places and folds contained in the rules in force today that still allow, despite Italian but also European norms, to entrust the works either without tender or with sartorial tenders (when, that is, you already know who must win, the races are cut out, precisely, like a dress made by a good tailor, that goes well to one person and anyone else would appear inelegantly dressed). In this respect, the work done in the Commission and the text presented to us make great progress. Let us not forget, in this regard, a story that is before everyone's eyes concerning the Expo, where all the catering services were entrusted to a certain firm - very prestigious, for goodness sake - without a contract. That this has been done precisely for the Expo and precisely for a service relating to the central topic of this exhibition, is emblematic of imperfection not only in the norms but also in those who should implement them. The message, therefore, must be clear to everyone: the temptation to do things by entrusting them to a certain person, to a certain company, even with the best intentions (you have confidence in that company and sometimes, behind it, you hide something else), is always present and, therefore, the norms must be stringent. That is why I, together with a number of other colleagues from my group, have tabled proposals for further improvement of the text in our examination. For example, one rule concerns the obligation to entrust all contracts for works relating to concessions by public evidence procedure. I believe that an indication for the transitional period should be included in this forecast. If, in fact, such a forecast is introduced - and that is right, because it would be a further stimulus to competition and efficiency - for the contracts already entrusted we risk going against freedom of contract and also against convenience. In the end, in fact, we risk having an extension of the procedures, which would then cause problems even when completing the work. There are other proposals that I have considered presenting - for example - on the question of entrusting the management of the work and other similar tasks by drawing them from a register. The problem is that we move from one arbitrariness to another. Therefore, either the draw is done among all those belonging to these books or, instead of having the arbitrariness of someone, we will in one case have the arbitrariness of the National Anti-corruption Authority and, in the other, of the Ministry. If the management of the work is to be done on drawing lots and two out of four persons must be drawn by the Ministry, with all the confidence of the Ministry itself, of those who are at its top and of its officials, the choice is still arbitrary. If it is a draw, it must be done among all, meaning all those who are qualified for that particular job, because not all are certainly qualified for every type of work. Another proposal that I have put forward, in a way perhaps out of date, is explicitly to say that Article 5 of the so-called Italian Unlocking Decree should be deleted. It is true that the extension is going to expire, but precisely in these days there could be a resounding denial of what we want to establish by this law, if by June 30 some proposals are presented - and frankly I do not know if they have already been presented - aimed at the extension of concessions, which authoritative sources and study centers (which are also close to the circles of the Democratic Party and, therefore, should not be suspected of preliminary hostility towards the Government) calculate in a gift of 16 billion to people who have in management very important structures of our country without having ever won a race until today. I believe that a reflection must be made on this point, precisely in order to avoid that, while we are adopting a rule that certainly goes in the right direction, we can then do some more blame, which perhaps guarantees a few more decades of management, which goes exactly in the opposite direction. It is certainly important to hold a thorough and serious debate. The premises are all there. I would like to thank the rapporteurs once again for their work. Forza Italia will work for further improvements of the text so important for the development of the country. The country is not improved with the proclamations, with good intentions or perhaps trying, with some basic prejudice, to better share the cake of national wealth, but it is done by increasing this wealth, allowing and encouraging development, competition, the job done well. Italy starts again if everyone does their job well and those who do their job well will be rewarded not only by the market, where it is competent, but also by the State, competent as in this case. The first to have to do their job well are the legislators. Parliament, and the Senate in this case, must demand its full legislative role, because Article 70 of the Constitution has not changed. The role of the government is important, but Parliament must be the centre of legislation not only formally but also in substance. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u14	Senator Margiotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u15	Madam President, the relaunch of infrastructure in our country is a classic measure that, in times of economic crisis, brings benefits. It is a measure that determines the economic recovery of gross domestic product, typically anti-cyclical and anti-recessive. There are three problems for this to happen: lack of funding, delays in payment by the public administration and cumbersome regulation. Since Legislative Decree No. 163 of 2006 there have been a large number of commercial interventions by Parliament that have modified the legislation on public works, making it too often unclear to be interpreted by the public administration. It is therefore necessary to put a hand in the matter through a reform of the procurement code, and the Government has done well to take advantage of the EU directives to deal with the subject tout court. I also acknowledge that Mr Nencini has worked very well with the Commission and the rapporteurs in order to improve the text of the law which has been received in Parliament and I believe that I can say that many positive aspects have been added to the Commission's work. Frankly, it is still all to be demonstrated whether or not the bet will be won that this work, which is well done in terms of maximum legality, can be matched at the same time by effectiveness, efficiency, dynamism and speed in the construction of infrastructure: on this, perhaps, some other small improvement will be possible in this House. The rapporteur spoke of the most qualifying aspects, which I will mention briefly: greater powers, including sanctions, to the DAC and a reduction in the number of contracting stations (in this regard, I hope that the House will find a modus in rebus, because 36,000 contracting stations are too many and perhaps falling to 20 would mean an excess); the economically most advantageous offer, but with Commissioners always drawn from an DAC register; the use of very limited variants in the course of work; the specific discipline for labour-intensive contracts; the prediction of French or Anglo-Saxon public debate forms (on which I will return); centrality, qualification and autonomy of the design phase; progressive overcoming of the general contractor and, in any case, with the direction of the works never again entrusted by the same general contractor; a precise distinction between works, services and supplies; prohibition of derogations (without prejudice to cases of civil protection and emergencies and urgency). I have tabled a number of amendments to the Commission, some of which have been accepted by the rapporteurs and the Government, and I thank them for that. Some of these amendments, which are more from my professional experience than from that of politics, are important and I quote a few of them. We introduce the standard costs, that is, deciding that every year you have to know, roughly, how much a public work can cost, so that, if you notice that it costs much more or that the variant brings it at a much higher price, you trigger an alarm from the administration, that it can immediately detect some anomaly. We introduce criteria of energy and environmental sustainability and important causes of incompatibility and rotation in the Selection Committees and the fact that there should be no conflicts of interest in validation. In my opinion, it is also very important to have established, once and for all, that the benefit for both services and jobs may relate to economic requirements, but never professional qualifications and technical and professional experience. I have tried to table a number of amendments in this House, which I would like to make briefly before concluding. The first of them, on which I also had an unofficial encouragement from the rapporteur and the Government, concerns decision-making procedures, including forms of public debate, as the rapporteur said earlier. I am interested in the fact that there is a principle, namely that the greatest possible involvement of technicians, administrations, the various local authorities concerned and public opinion should be established, including through these forms. At some point, however, the decision, once taken, must be such, because - as Renzi would say, who used this expression in another circumstance - it is not a Monopoly in which you always return to the starting box. Therefore, it is necessary to be sure that once the country has decided that a work is strategic, it is done. I have made a correction to the rapporteur's amendment, which is too technical to explain, but which would cause many problems, with regard to the need to indicate subcontractors before the competition: in this way, local companies would never be able to work again, because the big company, having to choose at the beginning the companies to be trusted, would not have time to go and look for them in the territory where the great work is to be carried out. I hope, therefore, that the Government will pay attention to this. I would also like to conclude on the very sensitive issue of concessions. It is good for the speakers and the government to ask for as much transparency as possible in future races and to say that all the works must be contracted through public evidence contests. The draft law, however, is delegated. It is therefore conferred to the Government, in the act in which it is to write the legislative decree, the faculty to understand what concessions it is about, distinguishing the big ones from the small ones, and works and supplies from services. There is a very strong ANCI position on this subject and, therefore, I suggested replacing the word "all" with the word "mostly." This gives itself the possibility, in the delegation that the Government must exercise, to clean up the matter, also distinguishing the concessions already assumed, with technical-economic and financial plans already drawn up, that with the amendment of the rapporteurs would see change the rules in progress, obviously with disputes imaginable and - in my opinion - almost certainly lost from the country. I should like to conclude with Keynes, of which I would like to quote a phrase that fits well with the debate in progress. He argued, in fact, that the greatest difficulty arises not so much from convincing people to accept the new ideas, but from convincing them to abandon the old ones. With the bill under consideration, we hope to succeed. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u16	Senator Cantini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating here is an example of good policy, something that citizens, businesses and administrations have long been waiting for. In fact, simplifying, simplifying, digitizing the processes underlying public procurement is a real need of the country and we cannot hide that many of the cases of news that we read in the newspapers, and that concern extensive corruptive systems, are born and proliferate on a farraginous, conflicting and untransparent regulatory system. We cannot hide that Italy has made its performance worse during the time of realization of public works. The code that, with this delegation to the Government, based on the transposition of European directives no. 23 and 24 of 2014, we will see birth will replace a law consisting of 259 articles and a regulation of another 359 articles, for a total of 616 articles and 58 annexes. I remember it not to repeat the mistakes made. This, in fact, is the bulk of the current procurement code, which has been amended 44 times in seven years with reference to so-called special assumptions. This is a code that does not compare with other European realities, where the articles to transpose the 2004 European Directive were instead 300 for Spain and France, 49 for Great Britain and only 38 for Germany. Dr Cantone himself, President of the National Anti-Corruption Authority, reminded us, intervening in the Commission, that this peculiarity of the code was accompanied by a series of obligations that, often, appeared bureaucratic to the operators and made the procedures particularly long, justifying in practice the frequent use of special regulations, with the provision of derogations for many works and for some large public works, such as the Expo, for whose implementation there were ordinances of the President of the Council and subsequently an ad hoc law that introduced the possibility to derogate as many as 85 articles of the Code. In short, the exception to the current state has become a rule and these derogations that are born in a continuous revolt of regulatory production make the general regulatory framework of very difficult interpretation and, therefore, usable by the evil and by those who try to draw economic benefits, raising the costs of the works. The excessive formalism, which is often governed by the rules of the code that we would like to overcome, has also encouraged the proliferation of administrative litigation linked to the violation or false application of rules so punctual that they are almost inapplicable, without a margin of error. Moreover, frequently, non-accident rules on the substantive aspects of the award of the contract often determine the blocking of the yards for suspensive judgments, waiting to resolve the numerous disputes that arise between contracting stations and companies, with consequent damages to the territories that do not receive in exchange the infrastructures necessary for the well-being and development of the communities. In this context, I would like to recall two innovative principles which, as the Commission, we have included in the delegation for the transposition of the new directives: firstly, as other colleagues have also pointed out, the prohibition of relying on contracts through derogation procedures, with the exception of individual cases related to urgency, which we have explicitly identified; secondly, the allocation to the National Anti-Corruption Authority (NAAC) of broader functions of promoting efficiency, supporting the development of best practices and facilitating the exchange of information between procurement and supervisory stations. It is therefore not only a question of powers of control, but also of powers of direction. In the delegation we have included, as a guiding criterion, the introduction of measures aimed at limiting the use of design changes in the course of work, distinguishing, in detail, between substantial and non-substantial variations. We suggest to the Government to insert in the code the forecast that every change in the course of work must be motivated and justified by unpredictable and unforeseen conditions, with particular regard to the substitution effect of the approval of the variation with respect to all the authorizations and acts of consent anyway denominated and guaranteeing always - I emphasize - the possibility for the contracting administration to proceed to the termination of the contract when the variations exceed certain thresholds regarding the original amount, guaranteeing at the same time the design quality and responsibility of the designer in case of errors. Again, I recommend to the Government to always safeguard the priority that must in any case have the continuation of the work, giving effective value and primacy to the public interest that is connected to the work. I am referring to that public interest which, unfortunately, is now the last of the interests protected, even with respect to the interests, albeit legitimate, of individuals. It is enough to refer to examples of expropriations, which often block works necessary for the territories. The other important object that I have tried to highlight also with an amendment to my first signature, approved in the course of the debate in the Commission, is that relating to the times, adding, as a qualifying criterion to be included in the construction of the new code, that time, so that the simplification and the reorganization of the current regulatory framework lead to closed and non-derogatable procedures concerning public contracts and concession contracts and to a significant reduction and certainty of the times relative to the realization of the works themselves. In fact, a territory, a municipality and the citizens who live there cannot wait for decades for a work to take place. It is right that everyone should be responsible for the timing. There must be some certainty of a conclusion. Finally, and very briefly, I would like to remind you that transparency and digitisation in tendering procedures are important, because knowledge and transparency are arid ground for corruption. With this delegation law we propose ambitious goals, but only through their implementation, which I am sure the Government will be able to achieve, Italy will be able to recover the many points of GDP lost for works blocked or never begun, instead making public contracts a strategic lever of economic policy, which is an essential element of the whole country system. Finally, a discussion which remains open in the Commission is that of the number of contracting stations. I agree with the need to significantly reduce the number, but to go from about 36,000 to a few dozen risks to shipwreck the new code in inapplicability or, worse still, to further slow down the realization of public works, which the country needs for its economic recovery, knowing that, as Italy is made, economic recovery can only take place thanks to the competition of small, medium and large investments, spread throughout the national territory. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Borioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u19	Madam President, I would like to start with a note: even looking at this House this morning, I have to say that sometimes it is much more succulent and it seems more stimulating to discuss the subject of procurement when it comes to criminal sanctions and criminal offences, while the media also devote less attention to this matter when it comes to talking about it in order to try to correct the system and identify those mechanisms that can prevent and avoid rushing towards the results of illegality and the consequent criminal sanctions. It has already been emphasized by those who have preceded me the importance of the measure, for which I believe it must be addressed not rhetorical but sincere thanks, to the rapporteurs, to the Commission as a whole and - let me say - also to the President, who led an important work, for which he has given the House a text that has its consistency, perceptible and readable, where a subject such as this, for the thickening of convergent and at the same time divergent interests (if I pass the oxymoron) that concentrate on the subject of procurement, could have imploded in a coacervo of norms without their clear physiognomy and identity. This is not the case, and I believe that legality, transparency, simplification, efficiency and quality are the fundamental pillars that this text gives to our debate and I hope that we will also approve it. A number of points have already been mentioned in the previous speeches. I would like to highlight a few of them: as far as legality and transparency are concerned, it is important to have eliminated some of the mechanisms that Dr. Cantone rightly called criminogens, such as the general contractor's ability to appoint the direction of the works in the great works or the systematic use of the mechanism of maximum decrease. The gears that have allowed the proliferation of corruptive elements and the multiplication of the costs of the works have therefore been affected. Of course, the measure is not just about public works, but I am particularly concerned about this, because that is what I know best. Equally important, as has already been mentioned, is the part of the measure which aims, not only to reduce the number of contracting stations and to break the chain that very often binds the Selection Boards to those who apply in the notices to obtain the award of the works, but to achieve the objective of decreasing and at the same time requalifying the contracting stations. Because the big issue raised by the measure is not only about the prevention of corruption and the contiguity between criminality, organised crime and the procurement system, but also about the return of effectiveness and efficiency to a system that unfortunately sees us, in many respects, of cinderellae in the European panorama. Therefore, the effort made in the direction of the qualification of the contracting stations is really very important. There are many things to remember: to conclude, I want to dwell on a couple of aspects that I consider crucial. The first relates to a very important passage in my view contained in the measure under consideration. I am referring - and I am talking about it, because I was the one who made the declaration of vote of the Democratic Party Group on the so-called Italy release - to the qualitative leap that is being made today in relation to the system of motorway concessions, which certainly constitutes a great issue for this country, even if not the only one. Now, having courageously decided to introduce substantially 100% of the public evidence into all the mechanisms that the dealers in operation put in place to carry out the work, I believe it is a qualitative leap in the sign of the very important transparency, but that also helps the organization and the growth of the system of the enterprises, equally important issue: urges the companies to confront the market, to strengthen and to grow, rather than dedicate their time to tracing the most useful paths to bind themselves to predetermined strings that place them in the condition of being able to work. This is a fundamental element for the qualitative leap of our system. It is also very important to have established that this country must be in a position to entrust the motorway concessions through public races. I would like to stress, however, on this point, a need for the Deputy Minister. We need to restore the system of control and surveillance of motorway concessions with more solidity and effectiveness; a system which, since the dismantling of IVCA, has in fact been dormant. I say this because otherwise we can foresee the best mechanisms for the custody of concessions, but if then no one incisively controls how concessions are made we do not solve the problem. I look at one last aspect, and I finish. As I think it will have been noted - and I agree with this approach - in this text we entrust a significant role to the Anti-corruption Authority, and I believe it is important because the procurement system unfortunately today records a serious disease that requires this redundancy of the role of ANAC with respect to the normal functions of control and supervision, also in actively contributing to the development and operation of the system. Since the rules are also being made in the contingent situation, I very much agree with this approach, but I would like to take up a point I made in the Commission as well. The hope I express is that this intensive care, which is now being used by using this instrument and this involvement of ANAC, will help to get the patient out of the condition of serious illness in which he is now in order to return to a system in which today those who have to monitor and control do that, and overall an improved, simplified and retrained system of contracting stations succeeds in carrying out their profession with full autonomy. This would be, in fact, the best indicator that Italy has healed from a disease that drags it to the bottom of the European rankings also on this side, and finally it has become a normal country in which companies can compete on a transparent market and compete with the public administration to the overall growth of the country and the realization of works of good quality made in certain times, with certain costs and in the best harmonization with the territories in which they go to place. The measure before us helps us to go in this direction, and I therefore believe that it should be welcomed with all the positiveness of the case. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Pagnoncelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u20	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u21	Madam President, the first thing I have to say about this measure is: it was time for our country to come down to this land too! However, although I agree with the statements made by the rapporteur, Stefano Esposito, I would be cautious in playing the grandcassa, because, indeed, we are late on everything with regard to the procurement code. Personally I have always been critical from this point of view, even with respect to the previous Government and those who came before It's a bit like when ANAS invites you to open a gallery, as it was done in my area: a four-kilometer tunnel for which it took 20 years. If you do the calculation, it's 50 centimeters a day: instead of inaugurating it maybe you have to apologize to the citizens; probably it would have been better to contract it to the seven dwarfs and we would have done it sooner. Apart from that, it is an important moment for Parliament that wants to confer this law delegation to the Government, a Government to which I acknowledge that it had an approach that I would call honest. I believe that Mr Nencini has well interpreted the Commission's will, and consequently Parliament's, to take this important step. As far as we are concerned, I can say that the Northern League Group has made a fundamental contribution in writing and rewriting this delegation law and we will perhaps see it later in the course of our debate. It is important that our country comes out of this that I would call the unique juniper of norms and regulations that have characterized the whole public system and all the entrepreneurial system especially in the realization of the great infrastructures of our country. Suffice it to say that it certainly does not exist - I say it quietly, not as a politician but as a professional - in Europe a condition like that we have in our country, where there are companies and design studios that have more lawyers than technicians. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] This is the truth, this is the plastic reality of our country and it's not good, because as a professional I can say that the lawyer hires it as the last ratio if I have a problem. In Italy instead this is a custom, in fact we will come to say that it is the only country where the profession of the reservist exists, which is the subject paid by companies to make reservations and on this point I will return later. I would like to make a point regarding the disaster that the procurement system in our country has created also on the public economy. Does it seem normal to you that it is customary for auction falls in our country to run between 40 and 50 percent? There is something that doesn't work: either the project is wrong or I don't know what. Among other things, this creates a problem of economies within the state administrations, because we know that to make a contract there is a need for financial cover and it is not logical that one billion euros be made available to carry out a work when it is already known from the start that 500 or 600 million will be used. This creates a great problem, because not being in private it is necessary to move resources from one side to the other and this has generated, over the years, a disaster and has created, among other things, the possibility of making very unclear maneuvers. This is a unique condition, present only in our country. I was talking before the reservists. The rapporteur, probably out of modesty, but also out of intellectual honesty, failed to talk about the objective law and was good at it, but I will talk about it myself. The objective law, which I had shared at its birth, has generated - also this - a delirium in our country and we want to overcome it, because we believe that it is right to do so, but it is clear that we must create the conditions for the works to follow a human procedure, so I define it because otherwise we do not understand each other. I believe that the mission is to be able to have sufficiently streamlined and transparent procedures and that Europe (one of the few things that Europe seriously asks of us) is asking us to adapt to a more European standard. On this point, I would like to stress an important contribution that we have made and that at the beginning generated a kind of general impasse, when we highlighted how important it is for the use of the integrated contract in this country to be limited as much as possible. I believe that it is essential - and we have emphasized this - that the first contract, the first one awarded for a work, is that of design. It cannot be left to those who have to carry out the work - in the integrated contract, in particular - the task of defining precisely what will be the workings and the final quality of the design of the work (to its use and consumption, in the end), because within the public administrations there is no one who can give certainty (even if there are the validations of the project) that the project is analyzed in a serious way. Since our country educates and creates serious professionals, who work seriously abroad, why not let them work instead of putting them under the yoke of companies that will go to do the works? Let's make them responsible for everything. As for the reservists, it is not possible that in a country like ours, on a contract of 480 million euros, like the two galleries of the Variante di passico, we are one and a half years late and we have reserves for 530 million euros, without having the certainty that this work has the qualities that have been requested and the durability that has been required and without knowing well how much money we will spend. These things can't and mustn't happen again. It must not happen that for works close to the border (I am referring to a fundamental railway work of our country, an addict to the great line Alp transit of the Gottardo) a certain enterprise realizes the work in the Swiss Confederation, ending it in less time, even bringing home a bonus (because in a serious country there is a bonus and a malus for the realization of a work) and the same enterprise in our country is still at the age of stone in the design. But it is not the fault of the enterprise; I do not want to defend the enterprise, I would miss it, but those who know the facts - and I am sorry that Mr Nencini, who knows this problem well, has turned away - know that this is a paradoxical issue. I don't know where we're going. I don't have much time left. I have spoken about the issue of integrated procurement and it is good to point out that it is time to end up in this country talking down, which was the origin of all the problems; perhaps it is good that the most advantageous offer, but on the basis of a serious design, can be implemented. I have never seen, even from personal experience, that what you have to control, that is, the director of the work, is appointed by those who do the work. Once - when my grandfather was the foreman - there was the opposite assistant, which was what guaranteed the client the quality of the work. We have to adapt, because the whole world is like this. There is no such thing as a job manager being appointed by the company, perhaps for all construction sites: he's out of his mind. We are pleased that a national register of competition commissioners is being set up. We have asked - perhaps it will not be possible, we will see with the rapporteur - a bad list for companies that resort, for use and consumption, to reserves... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, finish. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). I shall conclude, Madam President. I just want to make a point and I will repeat it in an explanation of vote. We have worked with four hands on this important step, giving temporary confidence to the Government, in the person of Deputy Minister Nencini; a serious work has been done in the Commission, for which I thank President Matteoli and all my colleagues. We have really worked with the will to make a breakthrough to this country, which we believe is fundamental, and we have brought our important contribution. I hope that we will not be disappointed, and we will see in our path what the government wants to do. I say, however, in a very detached way, that we have the opportunity to get out of a situation really, not only embarrassing, but really very dangerous for our country. Therefore, the Government makes good use of the work done in the Commission, and in any case, we will verify it to the test of the facts. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u22	Senator Sonego is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by acknowledging to the Government and to the rapporteur that important work has been done in recent weeks, certainly with the Commission's strong and passionate comfort, but that comfort does not detract from the commitment of the Commission and Mr Stefano Esposito. This is an important commitment, for a measure intended to have a significant impact on the life of the entire country, because the matter we are talking about concerns the activity of the central State, the Regions, the Autonomous Provinces and all local authorities. We are talking about a subject that is, either directly and explicitly, or indirect and implicit, reason for the news, not always commendable, every day on the media. We are talking about a subject that has a significant impact on the possibilities of economic growth, the development of employment throughout the country. Therefore, the measure we are about to dismiss today is a great economic and social reform of the Republic. It is in this spirit and with this in mind that today's debate is taking place, that the debate is also about to take place and that the voting on the amendments is about to take place, as well as on the measure as a whole. I would like to highlight a number of aspects on which other Members have already addressed themselves, but which I think are important to go back to, with the aim of emphasizing their importance. Firstly, we introduce rules, albeit with the procedure of delegation to the Government, which objectively simplify the ways in which the public administration of our country assigns public works contracts, concessions and services contracts. Simplification in the first place, and this is an important step. Secondly, let us take a step that allows our country's legal order in this area to be more European. This, on the one hand, makes us proud. On the other hand, we must be aware that this means that we will be more exposed to European competition. That is, with these norms we become a country in which also companies from other member countries can contend, with greater ease and greater transparency, the procedures and assignments of public works contracts, services and concessions that are banned in our country. We are therefore proudly more European and this, of course, implies on our part the awareness that the public resources allocated for works, concessions and services can be more easily contested by non-Italian companies. Another element is the introduction of the rules governing (and seems to me a great leap of civilization) in a more convincing way the matter of assignments in areas in which the cost of labor has an important weight compared to the overall volume of the assignments put in competition. We do this by introducing two types of healing: firstly, the use, erga omnes, of the procedure of the most favourable economic condition, of the most economically advantageous offer; on the other hand, there is provision for specific cures - the social clause has been mentioned - for the allocations in which the cost of labour exceeds 70% compared to the amount of competition. So, a leap of civilization is being made. This will imply new opportunities and the raising of the level of the challenge, because - it has emphasized the rapporteur Stefano Esposito in its introduction - all this means that - it is not taken for granted but it is possible - that there can be, above all in the phase of first application of this new order, an increase of the costs of some public service. However, the overall result will be clearly positive. In this dichotomy between opportunities and risks we introduce an element of greater certainty in the procedures of assigning concessions, works and services, but the regime that we are about to inaugurate also implies a challenge for the world of enterprises. There will be fewer protectionist niches; companies will have to be able to demonstrate greater competition capacity, not only because assignments will have greater contensibility with regard to the participation of foreign companies, but also because there will be fewer protectionisms also in the national context. So, the measure in many respects is a step forward. It is a law that effectively delegates reform and I believe that the country system must press the accelerator pedal precisely with the aim of taking the opportunity, minimizing the risks. I should like to conclude by associating myself with the comments that other Members have also made and add two very brief remarks. It seems useful to me the discipline that is introduced for the rules that will preside over the renewal of the concessions of the motorways with total public control; here again we are in the dichotomy between opportunities and risks. What is about to be launched is a discipline with many opportunities. The territorial authorities - I am talking about the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces concerned - who will be able to make use of this faculty will do so, but it must be clear that this faculty implies for those Autonomous Regions and Provinces an increase in the level of the challenge of government. We need to be aware of that. It is a great opportunity that requires a great and intelligent capacity for government. Let us return to the publicity of the aspects I have referred to. That's all I want to say. Thank you for your attention. I believe that the stage of the amendments will allow us to make some further improvements by accepting some of the proposals that have already been tabled. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u24	Madam President, today we have a draft law to delegate to the House. We would have preferred it not to be a delegation, but the measure is much awaited because, after so much discussion on the new procurement code, on the necessity and urgency for our country to put hand to all the procedures, it is certainly an important moment. I would also like to say that it is an element that can certainly give an impetus - this yes - to finally put a clear and transparent hand to the matter, taking into account all the critical points that the same investigations of the judiciary have pointed out to us also with reference to the events of recent times. In addition to the talk of transparency, I think that all this can then give a real boost also from the point of view of the economic recovery of the country, because it should put us in a position to be aligned with all the European regulations. The text that came out of the Commission - and I want to say this very clearly - certainly contains some very interesting points. An important work has been done; a number of requests have also been accepted and account has been taken of certain specific needs which had emerged, among other things, also during the hearings, as well as at the request of my Group. However, two critical points remain - and I come to this point, addressing the Vice Minister and the rapporteur, who I regret is not present at the moment - that they are not trivial or secondary. With regard to the first question, we have listened in all these months to the Canton's statements, but also to the programmatic statements of the new Minister for Infrastructure Delrio who in recent weeks said - and this left us well to hope - that there would undoubtedly be an overcoming of the objective law and its repeal. This is an issue that is not trivial and not secondary because, as is evident to all - for the truth we have been saying it for a long time and the definition of criminal law itself is ours, even before Cantone took it back and extended it - the procedures and mechanisms put in place with that law have led to consequences that were fatal to occur. To want to be euphemistic we could talk about poor transparency of the contracts, but, as we have seen from the investigations - I think of the MOSE, the High Speed - precisely the mechanisms that have been determined have been the element on which it has triggered, as a consequence, not only the corruption, but also and above all the failure to realize the works. I want to remind you that the objective law was presented at the time as the one that would finally give the country the opportunity to do the works well and quickly. It happened exactly the opposite, so of the initial list - among other things exterminated - of works, we saw in the end only 8-10 percent realized; on the other hand, we had a mad mechanism of rising prices, with all the variants in progress, to which the mechanisms of corruption were flanked very extensive. In particular, for the fundamental mechanism of the general contractor there was obviously no more distinction between the controller and the controller, since it was, among other things, the same general contractor to whom the work was entrusted to appoint the director of the works. The text in question contains a delegation of principles and other things, but we do not believe that with the text that is now before us, however much improved, we have spoken about the objective law. Among the criteria of delegation it is absolutely not clear, in fact, what has been stated on the programmatic plane by the Minister himself about the overcoming and repealing of the objective law. In the text, to confirm the ambiguity, the letters f) and v) even ask to distinguish, for the limits to the variants in progress, between strategic works and not, therefore, we want to confirm, in fact, the maintenance of the objective law. Therefore, not only is it not indicated as a clear guiding principle that this law is exceeded, despite all the declarations, but even, in the folds of the text, there remain ambiguities that make it clear that instead we even want to confirm the maintenance of the law itself. That is why we consider this point, as far as we are concerned, to be one of the discriminatory elements in order to judge the text in our examination. We have tabled a number of amendments to this effect and we will of course come back to it. Related to the overcoming and repealing of the objective law there is another fundamental element that concerns, in general, the list of works that would be necessary to clean up in order to make a true selection that identifies those that are actually priorities. Furthermore, when we are moving towards the transposition of the European Directive, there is a matter of strategic environmental assessment of major works. This is the other element that we think is absolutely fundamental. Then there is another point, in the text that we have received, which contains references to motorway dealers and which, according to us, is not ambiguous but something more: it does not work. In fact, in this case too, some progress has been made but the obligation to tender - as indicated in the text - is always valid except in transitional arrangements for tenders which have already expired or are due to expire. That's not good. This is not at all, let's be clear, the overcoming of the famous article 5 of the so-called unlock Italy. It's not like that for obvious reasons. In fact, you know perfectly well that the text makes it clear that public evidence procedures should be initiated for the granting of new motorway concessions but, in the following letter, bbb, there is a transitional regime specifically for those which are due to expire or which have already expired. At this point, since there are many of them and I could make a long list of them, distinguishing the transitional regime would be to say (and here again we are in contrast to Europe) that on some of the works on the list - it is clear, it is before our eyes - somehow we will arrive at a regime that is certainly not that of the race and we risk foreshadowing once again a possibility of extension. I would like to ask now precisely why I believe that the transitional arrangements should be cancelled, how can we think of an extension for some concessions which are due to expire? Those concessions, those extensions, in fact, I also tell the Deputy Minister, were not foreseen in the invitations to tender and in the consequent contracts that, among other things, already contained a wide possibility of extension. From this point of view - I see that the rapporteur points out - it is clear to everyone that when it is said that they are valid for future ones and that there is a transitional regime for those which are due to expire or which are about to expire, it is clear that we are not doing so. Indeed, if we really want to change the whole page of the objectives, the motorway concessions must all be subject, without a doubt and without a transitional regime, to public evidence procedure. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u25	She is registered to speak Senator Cardinals. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u26	Madam President, a very long-awaited measure finally arrives in this House not only because it transposes European directives, although this is important, but because it uses transposition and directives - and the government has done well - to rewrite our procurement code which, as Mrs Cantini said earlier, has been amended on 44 occasions in a few years, producing over 600 amendments, and in the presence of an even more comprehensive regulation than the code. So it's a further contradiction. We intervene on the code knowing well that the cumbersomeness of the legislation, as my colleagues said earlier, has produced another figure, which many have noted, which is the increase in litigation, which is also ineffective. I would like to stress that we are talking mostly about public expenditure and therefore, because the issue of efficiency of public expenditure is serious and important, having contradictory and contentious issues that persist over time (working interruptions, blocking of certain services) means going against one of our fundamental objectives; the efficiency of spending. The main aim of the directives is, as many have already said, to make procedures simpler and more flexible, to facilitate access, in particular, to small and medium-sized enterprises and also to facilitate electronic interoperability in the market. Clearly, this can only have a positive effect. The work done in the Commission has tried to hold together two things that seem to be contradictory: on the one hand, the need for simplification and simplification, on the other hand, the need to take action to curb corruption, unfortunately very often present in this area. On the other hand, they are not contradictory when we think of the Commission's interventions on the Government's text, which, through amendments that have been partially accepted by the Commission, have also been amplified. In order to do this we intervene on all the subjects that have to do not only with public works but with the granting of services, on which I would like to emphasize being another important topic. In fact, we will go to create a single code that will include public works and various concessions. This, too, is a simplification that is not insignificant. As I said, we intervene on all stakeholders, so public bodies, businesses, but also professionals. Some people said - it seems to me that Mr Crosio - that professionals are also positively pushed in this direction in order to improve in terms of competitiveness, since the design aspect is very important. The project takes on an important dimension in some areas and in this respect is also mentioned the architectural value. I think this is relevant. As regards the subject of small and medium-sized enterprises, with regard to turnover limits for access to contracts, we argue that this limit cannot be more than twice the value of the contract. We support the need for the certainty of the times, that for a company that wants to invest - I remember that in this code we also work on the encouragement of the public-private relationship - is fundamental. Many of you will have heard so many feats complaining about this. Certain times means a certain determination of costs. Another point to note is the fact that the project must come to an execution stage for the contract. All too often in fact the costs rise and the times are extended because there are too many variations in the course of work: we start with a cost and an initial forecast and we arrive with a completely different project. All this, as the rapporteur said well in relation to the issue of derogations, is necessary. Too many derogations are difficult to produce good work, not only in terms of costs but also because dangerous temptations can be nested in the folds of derogations. To foresee that derogations are only possible for specific cases - and I am thinking of the issue of civil protection, therefore the cases of natural disasters - I believe that this is another very important step forward. The exploitation of the project and the most economically advantageous offer, instead of the maximum reduction, we all know what they can represent in the choice and award of a contract. The qualification of companies passes, yes, to the digitization of the project and its quality, but also to the recognition of some values and parameters objectively measurable, but meritorious: the fact that a company delivers the work in time and that it respects the contracts constitute for the institutions a series of recognizable elements - not discounted and that already exist, because we know that those who do not comply with the national contract cannot even participate - like those that Europe tells us (I refer to the limit not to foresee ulterior norms regarding those that the European legislation already places, according to the so-called gold plating). Following are the only text, the reordering of the rules, the advertising and traceability of what is done not only in the award phase, but in all the phases that accompany the realization of the work or the completion of a service, which often goes into the background. Of course there are still problems to be resolved, as the rapporteur said: on the subject of contracting stations it takes some courage because it is clear that, if there are 36,000, it becomes absolutely difficult to control them all, even to want to do some sort of work. I do not know whether the regional dimension is too narrow, but perhaps we can work on the provincial dimension, otherwise we make fun of ourselves and it is not possible to do so. I do not agree with those who have said that the strengthening of the role of ANAC makes the register discretionary, made by another subject, because we will adhere to certain criteria regarding the characteristics of the designers, but not only; I think, for example, the register that will be the head of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport on the various subjects who will deal with the various phases, from the direction of the works to the responsibility of the works. On this too, in fact, some nodes must be dissolved, such as the centralization of assignments in one person. Finally, I would like to conclude on a couple of points which I think are interesting, relating to the provision of services. I am thinking of all those services in which labour plays an important role, where there is a 50% workforce with staff use: the theme of the social clause, when it is said to guarantee the employment of those people and that you will choose the contract more favorable to the employee, is not a small thing. Again, between reality and legend it is said that, if we pay X to a particular cooperative, then the worker takes a misery. To influence and act on this, I think it is an important safeguard. The same is true with regard to the aspect of the community and the relationship with it: in my administrative experience I understood the importance of the relationship with the communities. I want to state clearly that to evaluate, hear and listen to the community on the impact of a work that is being carried out does not mean, however, for those who assume the responsibility to govern and to do works, to go behind the pressure of the committee under the house that tends to make the objective of their garden prevail - I pass the diction - to bypass instead the more general one. On the introduction of the débat public, however, some colleagues - Senators Borioli, in the lead, and Vaccari - have presented a bill, because this element of participation and sharing is introduced, which does not mean another obstacle. We must not see it as such, but as a moment of listening that must not, however, take away our responsibilities to decide and carry out public works. Finally, I would like to conclude with a non-formal but substantial thanks to the President of the Commission and the rapporteurs. We have listened to over fifty subjects and you can well imagine how each one of them has tried to bring his own interest. I say, unfortunately, Madam President, with a little sadness: at a time when each of us must play our part in a common goal, which is to bring home the result, the works and the services, and to work best, too many times in auditions of every area and order I have heard: "Yes, all right, we have to improve, but start with my neighbor." This can't work anymore. It has therefore been complicated and complex for the President and the rapporteurs also to try to coordinate all this work. I also thank the Government not only for its presence, but also for the real collaboration: let us not forget that we are talking about a delegation that we give to the Government; despite this, we have gone very much in detail, without trespassing in the excess of delegation. But the government has allowed us, with its agreement and its constant and daily work, to have the Commission give so many guidelines, to go down into the folds of the measure, as rarely is done in the delegations and I thank him for that. I hope that in the Senate we will be able to approve this text quickly and that even in the House its examination will be completed, because the country and the companies look forward to it for the recovery of the economy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u27	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the excellent way in which the Government, the Commission, the rapporteurs and all the parliamentary groups, by majority and opposition, have been able to follow both in their method and in their content. Of course, colleagues, the challenge is not easy: it seems like a sort of impossible mission, looking at the panorama of the procurement system in our country, where mafia and corruption lodge and often works done badly and with fearful delays. But we must have the conviction that this is an exciting and decisive challenge for the future of our country. In the procurement system, colleagues, more laws, more authorisations, more derogations, more reserves, more variants, more urgent sums open doors and windows to mediation, to the damn bureaucratic and political mediation, which is transformed into often business mediation clientele or corruptive and mafia. I said that we must move forward with courage and systematicity and the work we have done is capable of making this qualitative leap. I have noted that the basic principle is to submit the procurement system to the criterion of legality and development. Colleagues, I start from development: we must do well and quickly. We must bring our companies back to construction sites, to the ingenuity and ability to design and carry out the work: engineering and engineers, productivity and workers; enough with lawyers, with reservations, endless litigation and blackmailers. And I'm gonna stop right here. Of course there are proposals, already evaluated and included, which I ask the rapporteurs and the government to take into account in detail. It was good to eliminate the maximum decrease, but even in the most economically advantageous offer there is rightly a certain decrease: it is inevitable, it is right that there is. Government, speakers, we try to divide into three quotas and return to the enterprise when it is able to shorten, in quota every three months, the times of realization. In this way the realization of the work becomes faster, so the system of the yard becomes protagonist of the work and moves the concrete interest of the enterprise from the legal offices to the yard. As far as subcontracting is concerned, I have very much appreciated the discipline that has been envisaged: to point out first, to make sure that they too are responsible, but also to make this presence convenient in terms of development; it is necessary to recognize the fixed costs for the work, for the costs of the company and to provide for a minimum recognition of the profit of the enterprise. In this way that system qualifies, becomes productive and small enterprises are able to make the leap of quality and not, as today, to be theirs to finance failing, especially with the system currently provided for by the objective law. Moreover, we must ensure that the work is done well, strengthening the quality, placing the directors of the work under the control of the DAC; I think of a team of engineers that must be given to the DAC to use in order to be able to control the quality of the work and avoid those drops that at this moment - I invite the Government to monitor - are being realized for the companies that have to control, for example, the quality of the cement, of the earth that must be used, of the material. That is why we must also make a qualitative leap on this point. I am now making proposals on the legal aspect of the works, which also come from my experience in the Anti-Mafia Commission. I would like to ask the rapporteurs to pay attention, first of all, to the reduction in the number of contracting stations. I agree with the rapporteur's approach: the less contracting stations the better. For example, rapporteurs, the proposal that you can consider is to root these contracting stations in the prefectures (in the reduced version of prefectures on which the Government is working today), ensuring that the DAC qualifies these contracting stations with specially trained and trained officials, with a specific connection with the DIA, so that, with the reduced power stations interconnected with a homogeneous computerised system, you can have a legal control appropriate to the forces and energies that our country has. In addition, I very much appreciated the strengthening of its function with standard contracts, standard calls, direct powers, qualification of tender commissioners and intervention on procurement stations. I would ask the Government to pay particular attention to two issues. First of all, there is no provision for compulsory denunciation of extortive and corrupting requests in the various points. I think that this is something that needs to be considered, and I have also allowed myself to submit to the rapporteurs a forecast of this kind, of which I read: Foreseeing an administrative system, regulated under the direction of the DAC, of penalties and premiums for the compulsory denunciation of extortive and corruptive requests by undertakings holding public contracts and services, including subcontracting undertakings and undertakings supplying materials, works and services. I will give this wording to the rapporteurs. In the same way, another very important and sensitive point is what we have long been examining in the Anti-Mafia Commission, which is now a law and which must be included in the delegation. I refer to the so-called dedicated account of flows, on which companies must then draw all the operations they have to do towards suppliers, businesses and workers. On this issue too, I would like to read a wording: "to provide for the use of sensitive accounts for public procurement contracting undertakings from which to regulate the financial flow of payments to all providers of work and work and to all undertakings entering in various capacities in relation to the contracting authority in relation to the contract". These proposals could enhance the control of legality without putting it in opposition to the other major challenge, which is the development of our procurement system. With these proposals we could cross that threshold and finally overcome this challenge. We owe it to the country. This Parliament must have this courage. I think that the conditions are all there and, with confidence, I also give these proposals to the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u28	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u29	Madam President, I too agree with what my fellow Members have just said, with a non-formal thank you to all my colleagues who have cooperated in drawing up this delegation to the Government for the implementation of the Procurement Code, with the reference to some very important directives, which I believe have been highlighted very well so far. For my part, therefore, I will try to recover part of the time, going to list three issues that I think have not been sufficiently stressed. I would start by saying that it is true that the dress is not a monk and that, therefore, corruption does not lurk automatically in relation to the procurement system that you choose. This certainly is not the case, but the figures today tell us that corruption is favoured by a system that puts in place rusty, opaque, inaccurate contracts in the drafting phase and too light and, perhaps, a system of concessions that starts from favouring one rather than the other. A colleague spoke correctly this morning of tailor-made clothes, that is to say of contracts formulated precisely for the company that you want to guarantee. As far as direct trusts are concerned, we have seen cases of finance projects or MOSE. All this has made evident a system of corruptele in the country that has brought us decidedly to the last places in Europe and between the Western countries - as it has been remembered - for what regards the system of services and contracts. Without competition, too much competition: these are the two measures that have been identified as responsible for this system, the increase of public costs and the bad deal, according to a firm analysis, that has led to extra costs, increases and an escalation that has invested our Belpaese in recent decades, gradually, in an increasingly evident way. Thanks to these three European directives - Nos. 23, 24 and 25 of 2014 - which we welcome in our legislative order, we will implement a system that blocks the current procurement law and we will allow the Government to put in line the conditions to implement a new regulatory text, called the Code of Public Procurement and Concessions. In a recent conference, in the presence of many experts, representatives of the Government and the representative of the DAC, Cantone, we wondered how many different procurement models can be made, which take proper account of prevention, transparency and simplification, associated with executive projects, compared to the way in which it has been carried out so far. The answer, at the end of this meeting, in which several voices happened, was that they can do practically anything. In fact, there is a very close relationship between poor execution of the works, great speculation and the network of corruptions. There are so many cases, that it is not appropriate to list them, but the example I would like to mention is that of recent and repeated collapses in the construction of viaducts of the Sicilian highway, which also demonstrate the importance, greatly underestimated in our country, of stratigraphic analyses of soil and subsoil. The lack of geological analysis is often responsible for the worst tragedies in our country. Precisely the fragility of the Italy system, also due to the diversity of the territory even between very close places, is such that it obliges us to consider it as a preventive and mandatory fact. 11:45 a.m. (Follow-up). As my fellow Members have already said, it is important to have included in this law no to the maximum decrease and the jungle of contracts. For example, a work was contracted, referring to a law of 1908. It is indeed an impressive panorama of legislative diversity what we need to develop and correct. I would like to remind you once again of the importance which my colleague, Senator Cardinali, pointed out earlier that this law can have in order to eliminate the reduction of workers' incomes, put into play by many contracts. I would also like to focus on two elements, which are not obvious and not sufficiently advertised in this debate, the first of which concerns reputation. I was particularly pleased that this term - which is an ancient term after all - was referred to as a guarantee of the quality of the realization. Today, in modern terms, we are talking about quality ratings, which apply to designers and businesses, but which also applies to the client. In this case I refer to the delay, in some cases even fatal for Italian companies, of public administration payments. Failure is considered to be an act even criminally prosecutable in other European countries, because it is symptomatic of disobedience, of unacceptable risk paid to others, to clients and to the citizen. In Italy, on the contrary, in many cases business failure is too often linked to non-payment by public administrations. The suicides of entrepreneurs, due to this, cause to reflect and force to a heavy step change, with the commitment and determination, that the government has been going on for a long time, for months, for two years, to bring to zero the accumulated debt in recent years towards the enterprises: another cause of delays, disputes, social tensions, lack of interest from the healthy enterprises, of foreign investors to our market of the contracts; nothing at all neutral, if it has allowed us to be solicited from the European Union to that healthy competition to which we call today in order to realize. Another theme contained in this draft law is the establishment of a register of competition commissioners, directors of works and designers, from whom to recover the know-how that serves without more the commissions in the conflicts of interest, too often cause of extra costs and corruption; still, participation as a productive element, element in which stakeholders, i.e. the stakeholders of qualified interests, can bring an increase in quality to the projects that are being made. As Mr Crosio said before - the data are frightening - in the decade 2001-2011 the target law passed the delivery of works over 200 million euros from eleven years to fourteen years of average, with only eight percent of the works performed. A fake shortcut had the demerit to lengthen the times, give rise to infinite disputes and cause the worst of bad business to nest. There was talk of ANAC. Well, then, let there be the stamp and verification of ANAC on the great interventions. The recent commissioners - the case of Expo I mention only for the name - have shown that, for example, small and medium-sized enterprises that had never approached the public administration, specialists who perhaps today, presenting themselves in ATI have found a listening space, have been able to foster great experience and quality. This is the task of the new procurement code. Finally - and I conclude - the innovative contract. I am concerned because I have seen some amendments aimed at eliminating it. Europe is asking us to include the innovative procurement as one of the procurement systems that we must set up. Innovative procurement means commercial pre-contracting, that is to say, that procurement model that in advance calls for more companies capable of carrying out research, development and innovation in order to then determine a trust to the enterprise that has managed, through this mechanism, to create the best opportunities. I just want to remind you that Spain, on this point alone, has managed to grow its research from 1.8 to 3%. The enemies of this bill I think are different: some are also among us, others are inside the market. I would say that they have a name, indeed two: one is called conservation, the other is called great personal convenience. The price - we said - is too high, and we are no longer available to pay it. Hence the very revolutionary model that we would like to see finally applied in this country, where honesty also becomes merit. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u30	She is registered to speak Senator Saggese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u31	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, at such an important and sensitive time for Italian policy, we are called upon to examine a subject which - I think - represents a challenge for the Government, for the majority, but I would dare say more generally for the entire legislature. The text on which the Senate Assembly is called upon to express itself is not limited to the implementation of the European directives, but the occasion is glowing - and we are usefully exploiting it - for the overall reordering of a subject, that of procurement, which represents about 19% of the entire European GDP and therefore becomes strategic especially in a period of economic crisis. I too would like to join in thanking my colleagues before me to the rapporteur, the Commission and the Government for the excellent work they have done. The text of the draft law provides for a rich and complex discipline, and for this reason I will limit my speech to certain aspects relating in particular to simplification and local authorities. With regard to simplification, first and foremost transposition of directives should be an opportunity for a new approach to procurement. This has been said by my colleagues before me: we are intervening on a regulatory fabric consisting of a very detailed previous discipline, which has given rise to a heavy code that has tightened the behaviour of public administrations, completed four years later by a regulation that is just as far-reaching and both - code and regulation - aimed at providing a small and detailed discipline. The new directives, on the other hand, express a more favourable orientation towards greater flexibility in public action, so we must make an effort to write a code which contains general, clear and organic provisions and which reduces not strictly necessary formalism. In the draft law this principle of reduction of the documentary and economic burdens on the participants and simplification of the verification procedures by the contracting stations has been well understood both with the clear and explicit forecast of the so-called rescue investigation and even with the forecast of a single centralized database relative to the general qualification requirements. Also in the same direction are the rules that provide for the reordering of the regulatory framework with the aim of preparing closed and non-derogable procedures and to achieve a significant reduction and certainty of the time relative to the realization of the public works. It should be pointed out that the Procurement Code has so far been used mainly for low-value tenders; for the rest there has been an excessive use of derogations and special procedures. However, the logic of simplification requires exactly the opposite, namely that clear, simple, easily understandable rules are encoded to operators and citizens, universally applicable and that therefore they can find space in the generality of cases, without exceptions and exceptions. A second aspect on which I would like to focus is the fight against corruption. As my colleagues before me have said, not only do DAC have greater powers of supervision over the regularity of procedures, including through the adoption of acts of direction and other flexible regulatory instruments, but I find it a firm will to combat corruption in other aspects which seem to be of particular importance, but which in my opinion are actually of primary importance. I refer, in particular, to the rules on transparency, publicity and traceability of tendering procedures and of all the prodromic and subsequent stages. To this end, it is envisaged that only in cases that are clearly indicated can the procedure be initiated without the prior publication of a contract notice, that databases operating in the sector should be unified and that tendering procedures should be regulated with the aim of avoiding conflicts of interest, as well as ensuring transparency, digitisation and traceability, which I believe are key elements for a genuine fight against corruption. Another key element is the design phase. One of the main reasons for inefficiencies, waste and lack of transparency in procurement in recent years is the frequent mediocre design not only for works but also for services. It is therefore necessary that a reliable and credible design is at the basis of each contract (this would obviously also reduce the use of the notorious variants). This criterion also seems to me to be well defined in the text that we are about to approve, where the promotion of architectural and technical-functional quality is envisaged, also through the instrument of design contests, but limiting the use of the integrated contract and favouring the tendering of the executive or final project. I would like to make a final reflection on the issue of centralisation of customers: it is certainly useful to favour the reduction of the number of contracting stations, both in order to obtain economies of scale and to facilitate controls (in anti-mafia and anti-corruption function) and because the increased discretion provided for by the new directives requires the contracting stations to have more knowledge and skills that can hardly be found in the thousands of contracting stations operating in our order. Well, then, the development of the central purchasing institution with the forecast of a system of qualification of the contracting stations, in order to manage contracts of greater and less complexity. Here I make a note: it is necessary to write clear and comprehensive rules that allow to identify the persons who hold the functions and the subjects to be centralized and aggregated, overcoming regulatory ambiguities that are reflected on the proper functioning of the aggregations. We must be careful about this. Of course, the side of the coin is that the criterion of aggregation could imply a limit for local small and medium-sized enterprises (due to the increased scope of contracts), but the directive also aims to try to preserve and protect small and medium-sized enterprises in their participation in selections. In this respect, the draft law has a very useful forecast, in my view, namely the introduction of premium criteria and procedures for the evaluation of offers to companies operating in their own territory. This gives priority to the aspects of territoriality and the short chain, showing sensitivity and attention to the many small and medium-sized enterprises that represent the true productive fabric and the true strength of Italy. I conclude with the awareness that the opportunity before us is really important. It is a very important challenge, the invitation to all of us is not to waste it. ( [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scibona. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have just concluded the discussion of the procurement code in the 8th Commission and we are already here to discuss it. Once I would have said, 'Well, finally, parliamentary efficiency', but now I ask myself: For what reason do you run so fast on such a delicate theme? Yes, because in these two years of activity, in which we, the 5 Star Movement, are for the first time in the parliamentary classrooms, we have seen different regulations, procedures and practices used, depending on whether a rule touched on certain interests or not at all. Some things have been fired at the speed of light, others have been stagnant for years in who knows which drawers, now directed towards a dead track, close to total cover-up. Certainly the law on public procurement is of great interest to the business world and to large companies. Indeed, with the large horizontal cuts in welfare and transport, procurement is now one of the few exits for state investment and therefore a source of income for many realities. But it is not only the great interests raised by this issue that worry us; now we are also tired of continuing to say it, because we are yet another delegated law: the Commissions are asked to deal with a matter, but without going too much into the details (those are the responsibility of the legislator, that is the Government). But wasn't it the duty of the Houses? At least to the Constitution in force, well understood, not to the crap you would like to approve. No, you don't. Do you not want the mayor of Italy not to be able to lay down laws in Parliament? Never! If once there was the anointed of the Lord, now we have the anointed, and that is all: he himself produces everything, including anointed. And then down below, all his trusty squires (here and in the Commission we have worthy representatives). Apart from this, which is the simple truth, let's go back to talking about the procurement code. As has been said, procurement is now the only substantial expenditure chapter of the State and, considering all the events that we have been reporting for years and that are punctually echoing to the honors of the chronicles, are a problem to be observed with great care. In fact, we have to run because the time is very short; will we not want Parliament and the opposition to be able to do their job? Oh, no, I'm sorry I said no controversy, but you're throwing them at me, so I can't do that. The procurement code covers a huge spectrum of tenders, contracts and contracts. Let's think about the fact that you go from the patch, pencil and rubber to erase, to the three lane highway, passing through a useless hole under the Alps, or to the canteens or cleaning; that is a variety of different and specific financial operations and commitments that almost seem not to have the same paternity, but that subjugate - or should subjugate - everyone to a procedure of public evidence. The Government's request, that is to simplify, is right but we must be careful of the famous problems of feline blindness. Since the innumerable hearings, often almost individual, given the lack of Commissioners who obviously preferred direct dialogues, we have been represented by a heterogeneous and dense picture of diversified issues. It is not time to tediate the (few) present (because we are already running away) with a review of the Commission's work, but the issues at stake are many and difficult to solve. Given the constant, almost daily, interest of the judiciary in public contracts, something had to be done, but who decides to what extent it is permissible to make variants, lower? How to choose the company that will carry out the work? Those who follow the judicial chronicle with more attention could say: Easy, they give jobs to the honest. There were! No, there would be more, in Italy they operate a lot of honest people, but the problem is that often it is the procurement methods that make honesty unavoidable. That is, the honest of the contractor is missing. Often, we find ourselves the shift politician who has to distribute prebende, anoint the electoral machine or set up some friends. But these are things we already know. If you accept by law too low prices or projects too superficial, it is normal that you then find yourself with companies that fail or with the variants in progress that exceed in cost the total number of working lines in departure. We are talking, therefore, about the most economically advantageous offer, which is then the line passed in delegation. All right, we agree, but who decides the parameters? An authority, the Ministry? Given the current situation, a third organ is better. Much has been said about ANAC. Beyond the components (we need to face the organisms for what they are and not for who composes them), ANAC is definitely a subject that could follow and dissolve many of the problems of this field. But be careful to give too many tasks to one subject. He would come, to think badly, that he wants to clog an authority so as to block the work he has done and that he has to do, making him do everything by himself until he gets to the clogging and capitulation of the system. Much better to rebalance, to divide between multiple subjects and to make sure that the unscrews of one can be noticed by another. Welcome to a simplified and standardised route as far as possible. Soft law and standard calls may be the solution but, as I said before, be careful that the burden of control does not fall on the same tables. Much could still be said, indeed, starting from the inadequacy of the objective law, passing through the motorway concessions, up to the wild extensions, such as tendering procedures, simplified authorisations, guarantees for workers and company qualification classifications. But we will have the opportunity to discuss this in the vote. I would like to stress that, in any case, beyond the results achieved, the Commission's work has been constructive and that many proposals outside the majority and the rapporteurs, not just ours, have been accepted and taken on board by the rapporteurs. The fact remains that we are talking about a delegated law. We have learned, just like those outside the Palace, not to trust this Executive. What will come out of this House will certainly be turned upside down, and we do not like this, but it should not please colleagues who have committed themselves so that an issue as important as procurement is armored by evil and made functional to the needs of the community. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u35	Mr President, an important text, proposed by the Government and improved by the Commission, comes to this House today, which seems to me to have in itself many widely shared rules. I note that Senator Scibona's last speech also discusses the method, but not the merit, of this measure. An important measure for many reasons, that can give more certainty to the economic world, to the enterprises, but also a measure that carries out an important work, directed towards transparency and aimed at really addressing the issue of the cleanliness of the contracts. We, in the face of investigations that continue to show how widespread corruption and lawlessness are in our country, believe that we must know that politics and institutions must give answers to citizens, demonstrate that they are capable of dealing concretely with the failures that torment our public life. Even the last elections tell us of a widespread disaffection, a disappointment and a distrust that surely originate also in the indecent shows that emerge too often from the chronicles. Our task is not to try to ride the polls for a few more votes; the task of all of us in this House must be to restore credibility to politics and the institutions. In these classrooms it is necessary to approve rules that prevent and strike crimes and that produce transparency and legality. This is the task we have. We have often done this well in recent months with the Government. We have done so by approving the self-recycling law, by voting on the new anti-corruption rules. We did. I know that it is easier to communicate problems and scandals than things done, but these things are done and important. We are discussing this today and, I hope, approving this draft law which finally, after years of trying, brings to Parliament the issue of procurement regulation, which has been complicated and made incomprehensible by dozens of adjustments that have not helped neither transparency nor clarity. It is true that all this is being delayed, but it is also true - and the fact must be emphasized - that it is being done today. Today we are debating a delegation law that will finally give order and certainty on a matter on which it is decisive to intervene to raise the barriers against corruption and evil, a law that describes clear, transparent and simplified paths and together rules and tools that combat corruption, waste and illegality. The proposal that comes to this House is justice first of all to the wrong idea, which wants to contrast with one another the need for legality and transparency on the one hand and the need to carry out public works quickly and surely on the other. Today we reason on a text that, precisely by simplifying procedures and making them uniform and giving certainty on the times, gives more guarantees against infiltrations, pollutions and tricks, reducing the spaces for derogations, modifications and variants. Not only is there an intervention on a point that often causes huge increases in expenditure on public works, but it also intervenes on a point that often - because this happens - lurking in variants and derogations produces corruption and illegality. This is the first important figure I want to stress. This is the first challenge that this bill of delegation faces. Alongside this, I would like to stress the many measures planned to be taken in the right direction, including the fight against illegal and illegal activities. We certainly don't defeat the mafias only with the Public Procurement Act. We know that now and we are told by recent investigations into the North: organized crime is infiltrating the private economy in a significant way, but certainly combating corruption is an important face of the battle we must do to defeat the mafias because there is a close link between corruption, illegality and mafias. Well, I would like to close my speech quickly on what has been done in this law. First of all, I want to stress the importance of putting the issue of the National Anti-Corruption Authority at the centre. This law definitely recognizes the role it is fulfilling from its constitution that Authority. The point - it is true - is not the people, but the role, which needs to be clarified, and this law does so: it clarifies the powers of supervision, control and recommendation of the Authority. The constitution of ANAC has represented from the beginning a novelty that has allowed to make an important leap of quality because, as is unanimously recognized, the institution of the national anti-corruption authority, with its activity, has been the strongest intervention against the corruption put in place by our country in many years. The novelty is represented by the fact that an Authority that has the powers and functions to carry out a preventive intervention, to make those checks about which Senator Scibona spoke regarding variants and derogations, looking first at the contracts, looking first at the paths and intervening to prevent corruption. Secondly, I believe that it is also important from this point of view to the reasoning contained in the law to reduce much the spaces for the races to the maximum decrease. In fact, there is not only the problem of guaranteeing the quality of public works; there is not only the problem of protecting work and workers: we must know, in fact, that often the races to the maximum decrease, in all sectors, are an open door for crime because those who have more money - perhaps to be recycled - can more easily access public procurement. I would also like to call - and I am finished, Mr President - the question of transparency. In many speeches, reference has been made to the transparency rules contained in this draft law: I refer to those on public evidence, traceability at all stages of proceedings, databases, digitisation, reputational aspects, and to the proposals on dedicated accounts for the control of money flows, which I hope will be accepted by the rapporteur. To conclude, I want to say that I think it is good to reason on the accreditation of contracting stations as does this measure. If there is a debate on the need to reduce contracting stations, I am among those who say that they need to be reduced and so much. Today we are dealing with an affair like that of the Municipality of Rome that I do not believe is foreign to the fact that in the Municipality of Rome there are 290 central contractors, 290 offices and people who can assign assignments and entrust contracts. It is clear that this risks being a criminal system and we must intervene on this. With this measure we do another piece of what we are trying to achieve together with the Government in recent months: raise the barriers against corruption and against lawlessness. This bill, wanted by the Government and supported by Parliament, is a project that serves the country, serves to restore confidence to the citizens and to revive growth, often made more difficult by the price we have to pay to corruption. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u36	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u37	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his enthusiastic but calm report, and I would also like to thank the Commission which has worked. I should like to focus mainly on one point. I am very sorry - I am telling the truth - about the instrument that the Government has decided to use, that of the delegation law. I remember when in February 2014 the President of the Council came to the Senate to present his Government. On that occasion he made a speech that I appreciated and seemed happy, saying that it was necessary to stop the fact that the companies, once they had awarded the works, were actually dealing more with the legal part, seeing more engaged the lawyers to dispute with the client than the engineers who had to think about doing the work. In fact, the problem is real. Then I wonder why the government used this instrument. My colleague Scibona said he doesn't trust the government. I don't make it a matter of trust, I make it a matter of timing. In fact, if the Government instead of presenting this bill to us in November 2014 had waited two or three months longer and had presented itself with a draft law on procurement, the Commission would have taken a little longer, the House would have discussed (the Government could have also put trust in a normal bill, which it could not do with a draft law delegation) but once the decision had been taken, here and in the House, we would have had the law. Today we are debating a delegation. When we give the delegation the work will not be finished, but it will begin. By the way, we have applauded these months, and I think they have all noticed, that the structure of the Ministry, at least in my opinion, is much less reliable than the Government because I must say that what we have read is not upbuilding. And then they will have to carry out this delegation, which will then come to the Commission and then start a change. The country, therefore, will have the new legislation in about two years while it would need it quickly. In this way, in fact, we do not move forward, not only because of scandals, but mainly because we are stuck. We have rules that make it difficult to accomplish anything. There is the instrument of the Conference of Services; a Conference of Services is being held, something is being decided, after which a company, in order to set up a construction site, needs authorization for the occupation of public land. But in the meantime, in order to obtain such permission, he may find himself with a cause brought by the neighborhood committee for which he is forced to face other discussions and the work that was to begin on a given day, in fact begins two or three months later just for this. All this means not only that the works start late but that the costs multiply because then, as the President of the Council rightly said in February 2014, the construction companies, small, medium or large, are not of the ONLUS, try to take advantage as much as possible and therefore make reservations, reserves and reserves, after which, systematically, the work that was to cost 10 actually comes to cost at least 20. Times are getting longer and citizens are getting angry, quite rightly. I have come to this point because it is not secondary. I hope I can be denied the timing. However, the work that has been done is very serious. I think that at the time of amendments we will be discussing a number of aspects again and we will have the opportunity to go into some details. I hope that it will be denied and that, once the delegation has been approved, it will be carried out quickly. For example, in some areas of the so-called jobs act, beyond merit, delegation was carried out quickly. In this case, however, we cannot proceed in sectors because there is a need for an overall review of the matter. In fact, there is no doubt that the law on public works promulgated in 1993 was wrong and it was also probably wrong, we must say it a posteriori, the fact that instead of redoing the legislation, each time we have tried, either through an objective law or through a series of contraptions, to bypass the rules. A comprehensive review must be carried out in this area. From this point of view, I think it is right that we should be preparing for this review. I am afraid - I repeat - that the instrument will eventually lead to a longer time frame than it would have been following the main road of a bill that would enter into detail: it would certainly have taken a little longer, but the issue would have ended and clarified definitively. I would like to thank the Commission for its work and, above all, I hope that the delegation, once operational, will be carried out quickly. I am afraid, however, that the government will not have a large ministerial structure on which to rely because some problems seem to me to be there. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u38	Senator Vaccari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u39	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to join, at the beginning of my speech, in thanking the rapporteur, the President of the Commission and all its members for their valuable and important work on the text of the measure proposed by the Government. The delegation of procurement, which this House has begun to discuss and which represents a revolutionary measure in this area, as the rapporteur has called it, among the many principles that colleagues have spoken about in relation to the guiding criteria, also includes the revision of forms of public debate involving local communities and stakeholders of collective interests in the territories concerned by the implementation of major infrastructure projects having an impact on the environment or on spatial planning. It is a principle that has been strongly desired by the rapporteur and that undoubtedly represents an absolute novelty in the context of the procedures for the realization of public works in our country. An important and qualifying point, in my opinion, like others mentioned by colleagues who spoke before me. In fact, when we talk about infrastructure policies in Italy, the origin and development of situations of high conflict constitute a physiological phenomenon: where there is a potential work there is a dispute, legitimate is clear, but not always of merit. In short, we are faced with one of the causes of the deadlock in the implementation of the projects, whether they are installations or infrastructures, regularly approved by the competent institutions, but often never realized because they are the result of decisions dropped from above despite being taken by representatives democratically elected by the citizens. Some data are enough to make the extent of the phenomenon clear. According to the 2014 report on the implementation and expenditure of public works, drawn up by the Department for Development and Economic Cohesion, in the last three years the time of realization of the works in general has increased, on average from 4.4 to 4.5 years. However, the increase is not homogeneous and grows as the total amount of the works grows, weighing about 30% more in the interventions from the greater cost, that is those of more than 100 million euros, whose time of realization has gone from 11,1 to 14,6 years. And it is paradoxical that these difficulties manifest themselves not only towards the most traditional polluting industries, but also for what should theoretically be the green and sustainable industries of the future. Some recent data tell us that 62.7 percent of the contested works belong to the electricity sector and that the hottest opposition is represented by the electricity production plants from renewable sources: among the most controversial works are biomass power plants, hydroelectric power plants and wind farms In addition, it has been estimated that the costs of not doing will amount between 2012 and 2027 to a total of 474 billion euros, equal to 30 percent of GDP. It is a cost that our country cannot and must not afford and that it pays every day in terms of competitiveness compared to those who, instead, in other European countries manage to realize the planned works. It is from here that we must start again, if we really want to fill the infrastructural gap - not only roads, but railways and energy plants from renewable sources - that, according to the most accredited observers, afflicts our country and thus restarts our economy, creating employment and establishing a new climate of trust between citizens and administrators. It is a question of closing one epoch in order to open another, through the taking of the act that the model, aseptic and technocratic, of the authorization procedures provided for by the current legislation (Conference of the services, EIA, AIA) has become on its own insufficient to give guarantees on the concrete feasibility of a project and its sustainability. That model succeeds today - and not always - to guarantee the legitimacy of an iter and a final decision, but not also the actual complete realization of the approved project. Aware of this scenario and as a corollary to the delegation of contracts that was being discussed in the 8th Commission, I have presented with the rapporteur Esposito and my colleague Borioli a specific bill, with the intention of introducing mandatory procedures for consulting the territories on which they will insist infrastructure and public works in our country. We have done this by providing for the introduction of the French débat public instrument, an innovative device that recognizes in the actors involved not only conflicting preferences, but also different logics of action, assuming that, if they are recognized and interacted, we can open the way to more inclusive and less conflicting design processes compared to the classics. Nevertheless, the debate manages to synthesise between the territories and the proposers the work, who want to know in advance where and how it can be realized. It is clear that the ideal place to build this synthesis is not during the administrative procedure, but at the previous stage, when public debate can create an early representation of what will happen next. The good self-esteem that the public débat has given in the French experience - to be identified in its ability to overcome moments of conflict, sometimes instrumental, between the parties, leading to as constructive results as possible - makes it conclusively a solid participatory device, making it the ideal institutional place in which the subjects in some way involved in the final decision confront themselves in order to select the options that best satisfy the public aims in the highest sense, and at the same time wider, of the expression. There is also the English experience, of course, to look at. Of course, not all interventions intended to be carried out on the territory are equally predictable difficulties of acceptance by the local populations. For this reason, the draft law that we have presented makes it compulsory to hold a public debate only for the great works and for those interventions that, although not identified by the legislator as great works, also have a strong social, economic or environmental impact (think of landfills and waste-to-energy, just to mention a few cases). Aiming at overcoming the decision-making stalemate that afflicts our economy, public debate can become one of the essential elements of a new social pact that meets the challenge of keeping the environment, development, health and work together. Advantages for the territories and the proposers the work, therefore, certain procedures in the times - as my colleague Cardinals has previously emphasized - decisions more aware and shared, increase of the knowledge from all the involved subjects: that is why in our country is fundamental and no longer postponed the introduction of norms for the consultation and participation in the matter of localization and realization of infrastructures and public works. Because the legislator, already passed from the EIA to the VAS procedures, understood that now is the time to move from the VAS to the VIS, i.e. the social impact assessment. We hope that the Government, in the exercise of the delegation that we are giving him with this measure on the subject of public debate, will refer to our bill, as well as those of other parliamentary groups, in order to be able to quickly define for our country an advanced norm that would place it fully in Europe, along with all the other extraordinary and revolutionary measures that this bill contains. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u40	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Deputy Minister, the delegation to the Government for the issuing of a legislative decree to implement Directives 2014/23/EU, 2014/24/EU and [EU], respectively, concerns the rules governing the award of concession contracts - and this is the first time - the procedures relating to public procurement in the ordinary sector (services, works and supplies) and also the procurement procedures in the special sectors (such as water, energy, transport and postal services): all this, repealing the previous directives, in order to achieve a rewriting and therefore the repeal of the current code of public contracts. Among the main objectives of the new directives are considered fundamental: the simplification of the contractual activity of the public administrations, including through the self-declaration on the fulfilment of the requirements; easier access for small and medium-sized enterprises, through the division into lots of public contracts, an objective - this - that we of the North League are very concerned about; greater efficiency in public spending. Moreover, as mentioned above, other objectives relate to the discipline of concessions for public works and services not yet governed by Community directives; the explicit preference for the criterion of awarding the most economically advantageous offer, based on the value for money and not only on the criterion of greater economic decline, aware however that this mode reduces, but does not eliminate the risk of corruption and opaque practices, as several magistrates, even anti-mafia, have admitted. We therefore welcome the criteria which also take into account elements such as quality of performance, environmental and social sustainability, the cost of the product's life cycle. Finally, as a final objective, we point to the preference for institutions connected with the means of aggregation of demand, such as the central purchasing bodies, to prevent phenomena of conditioning by organised crime. As my colleague, Mr Crosio, has already done, as the text presented by the Government, which consists of a single article, in the 8th Commission has been very enriched with additional delegation criteria, approved with a fruitful collaboration between majority and opposition groups and in this regard the North League has certainly not been lacking in contributions! The scandals that we have witnessed in recent times, even those of the last hours, where through the institute of the private negotiation we have even come to carry out illicit in the renovation of the Sala consigliare del Capidoglio (it is a shame!) [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group),]] the repeated reports on investigations by the judiciary, from the G8 of the Eagle, to the TAV, to the MOSE, to the Expo, to the Mafia Capitale, require urgent and improcrastinable interventions to correct those norms that allow the inclusion of crime and collusion in public works. The media highlight a market for corruption and collusive cartels in which various actors (politicians, administrators and civil servants, entrepreneurs and professionals) are engaged in exchange relationships which relate to the transmission of resources, information and decisions relating to the exercise of public authority. In recent times we have had the opportunity to know a series of gimmicks used by corrupt companies to rig the races through cartels of competitors who agree to split the races and win them, in rotation, at a higher price, without forgetting the reserves or variants in progress, which today double, triple or even quadruple the initial costs of the contracts. In particular, it has been pointed out that it is the great strategic works and the extensive competences conferred on the general contractor to facilitate the system out-of-law. In the new text that has emerged from the Commission's work, the following provisions are qualified: in paragraph 8, already since the entry into force of the delegation law, the prohibition of assigning to the general contractor tasks of manager or director of the work a clear conflict of interest is introduced. Another provision concerns the creation, at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, of a national register of the subjects who can respectively assume the roles of head of the works, director of the works and tester in the public works contracts awarded with the formula of the general contractor, all of this providing specific requirements of morality, competence and professionalism. A further provision will see in ANAC the focus of the system. In fact, the DAC is assigned functions of supervision and control, powers of recommendation and precautionary intervention, as well as the concrete possibility of intervention of deterrent and sanctioning. The DAC, in fact, up to now could only report an illegal, but it had no tools to force the public administration to align with the legality and could not apply sanctions. Moreover, other provisions place as a priority the reduction of the documentary and economic burdens on the participants, the simplification of the verification procedures by the contracting stations, the strengthening of the design and the valorization of the architectural qualities and, above all, the prohibition of recourse to procedures derogating from the ordinary ones. In addition, it is envisaged to limit integrated procurement, traceability and simplification of procedures, as well as reputational criteria and premium mechanisms for companies that have always respected delivery times without creating litigation. Before concluding, I would like to stress, among the proposals of the Lega Nord Group accepted by the Commission, the following three, which we consider to be more important than others. As for the first, I refer to the introduction of premium criteria and procedures for the evaluation of tenders submitted by companies operating in their own territory, in accordance with the principles of cost-effectiveness of the contract, simplification, territoriality, short supply chain and increased employment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is to ensure greater affordability and accountability of businesses in carrying out the work. This is basically the principle of "zero-kilometer" enterprise. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The second proposal is the possibility for municipalities other than provincial capitals to contract works, supplies and services below certain thresholds, despite the reduction in the number of contracting stations. In fact, I would like to point out that it is absurd, for example, what is happening today in small municipalities under 10,000 inhabitants, who cannot proceed independently for the purchase of goods and services of minimum size. The threshold of EUR 40,000, in fact, applies only to the larger municipalities. This for small municipalities represents paralysis. Our third proposal, which has been accepted, concerns the radical revision of the overall enforcement guarantee system, on the basis of the principle of prohibiting the introduction of regulations in excess of those laid down in the Community directives. It has been verified that the introduction of such a system results in an additional economic burden on companies, which is absolutely not provided for in the new Community legislation. It is therefore important and essential that this provision be overcome. In short, also thanks to the transposition of many - I repeat: many - proposals of the Lega Nord Group, we believe that the text that came out of the Commission is balanced and positive. We therefore believe that we can give a general favourable technical opinion on this text. Certainly, however, we will not miss our control over the exercise of the delegation entrusted to the Government, in the hope that the final product, which is hoped to come in due time, effectively pursues the objectives set, which are an absolute requirement of the country: simplicity, effectiveness, efficiency, transparency, legality and legal certainty. It is worth remembering that the country absolutely needs development, through new infrastructures and plants, but also maintenance, extraordinary and ordinary, and, above all, interventions to defend the soil in order to reduce the risk of hydrogeological failure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u43	Mr President, we too have a positive view of this delegation, partly because it comes from excellent work done in the Commission. The rapporteurs, Senators Stefano Esposito and Pagnoncelli, together with the Commission and its President, have worked well. I should also like to congratulate the Government and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which has made use of trained and technically capable consultants to solve a major problem. I quote one of the many: Professor Chiti, who has been an excellent consultant, who has brought some excellent suggestions that I have seen received from the Commission. We certainly believe that the delegation should be carried out quickly. I am convinced that, in a short time, once the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies have approved it, the Government must roll up its sleeves to issue the Procurement Code. They are among those who consider positively also the objective law, which has caused the country to start again, because a country without infrastructure and public works is a dead country. Penicillin, which has eradicated infectious diseases, may in some cases have led to intolerance, allergy or even death, and even if in some cases sporadic it has been used to commit crimes, it is not possible to make every herb a bundle. The country is divided and has moved forward: if we have the high speed we owe it to the objective law and if it, at European level, has been up to the level in its public works we always owe it to the objective law. Instead, I criticize the law of 1993, which was a wrong law, because it came from the belly: the false media-judicial revolution called Tangentopoli was followed, led by foreign countries that wanted to occupy Italy with their capitals and their businesses, and they succeeded with the complicity of Presidents of the Republic, Presidents of the Council of Ministers and political parties. That was a wrong law, but we are now remedying those mistakes, because it is a shame to make the races to the maximum decrease. In services, especially where there is work, how can we go under the minimum trade union that must be given to workers? It is obvious that some Italian companies, which are awarded more than any other public works, have more lawyers than technical staff, because they manage to make money through reserves, reserves and variants in progress, winning races to the maximum decrease and being structurally more competitive than all the others. The removal of the maximum reduction mechanism on the purchase of goods and services, I believe, is qualifying. I believe that for many municipalities it is necessary to remove the possibility of giving the piece of trust, for certain figures, in order to carry out the works immediately. In conclusion, for these reasons we give a very positive opinion to the measure and we believe that the Government, in the implementation of the delegation, must pay attention to the designers. In fact, we see designers referred to as trustees, who are incapable and incompetent, and it is precisely from the wrong project that a series of increases, reserves, variants and increases in costs arrives in cascade. For the designers I want to recall a famous slogan, in which I believe: "deserves and needs". We must focus on the merits of those who have the qualities to design, the seriousness and the competence, choosing really capable designers: I believe that there are really few in the public administration and therefore we must try to assign as much as possible these tasks to the outside, but with the civil responsibility for every variant that should be necessary. My judgment on the delegation under consideration, in total, is therefore extraordinarily positive. President Senator Cervellini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u44	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, for the work we have done in the Commission, for the quality of comparison and listening to each other, as well as Mr Nencini, whose presence - there is no doubt - has not been formal, but is also full of explicit criticalities about non-secondary passages. But there is a "but" - I say it openly - because here we are not establishing how to participate in a gala lunch, but how to cut compared to the system that characterized the powerful Ministry of Public Works, the so-called Incalza system. We are reasoning and legalizing on how to remedy the action, in some cases unholy, produced by ANAS especially in recent years, which is deaf to every punctual criticism, in particular the opposition, and which, until a few months ago, at the mouth of its president, in official hearings minimized compared to a wide horizon of disasters. We are talking about those viaducts, which, as my poor mother said, held from Christmas to St. Stephen: inaugurated a few days before Christmas and collapsed a few days later, in the same year; pylons collapsed. Compared to the accidents on Salerno-Reggio Calabria, where pylons have recently collapsed causing the death of foreign workers, has our cynicism made them less dramatic? All this happened in 2015. Or, let us think of Tyrrhenianism: despite the broad, if not unanimous, opinion of the local communities, and the critical issues that have been raised, we proceed obtusely, until we get the ears of the European Union, which we are always ready to listen to, except when it says the right things. What politics must do now and the institutions cannot entrust it to the judiciary, which is working and, I hope, we hope, continue to do so. There is an emergency, that is to overcome the emergency, the procedures by way of derogation that have marked all this strategic sector for the Italy system, for the development capacity of our country. You did the masterpiece by unlocking Italy, and even then there were observations, and not in a way, by the European Union. We denounced the names, the surnames, the contradictions that contained that decree on concessions; the President of our Group said this before me, so I don't hesitate. All I'm saying is that we, in unsuspecting times, have asked for the focus of the anti-corruption authority and its president, starting with Tirrenica and passing through a whole series of so-called strategic works. It is clear that so much dust has been put under the carpet, because otherwise we do not understand yet another scandal of the objective law. We cannot come here to say that we want to overcome the problem, but then in the same Commission - in which I have just acknowledged the work of the Presidency and the Deputy Minister - with respect to the strategic works cut off to cope with the mood of parts and members of the majority, to predict that they will be restored in September. I'm not talking about allusions, I'm talking about statements that have been made. Then we're not here. In this sense I agree with Senator Carraro, when he spoke of weakness compared to having chosen the instrument of delegation. There is no doubt that if we resort to this procedure, we entrust ourselves to a government which had presented a very modest text, which has been improved by the work of the whole Commission, mainly, of course, of the representatives of the majority, but some substantial contributions seem to me to have given it to us and we continue to do so in this House. If we have chosen the path of delegation, it is quite clear that we cannot be generic, because we must give a clear direction which cannot be subject to contradictory interpretations, which mean that the text must then return to the Commission and that we must start again that valuable and useful work, although still limited, which has been carried out in the Commission. I must therefore remind you that in order to combat corruption in all respects it is necessary to clearly separate the figure of the controller from that of the controlled, therefore abolishing the objective law, absorbed by Legislative Decree No 163 of 12 April 2006, the so-called procurement code, which is a sine qua non for a reform of real systemic impact. The definition of the general contractor proposing the objective law is clearly a concession, but without responsibility for management. However, I wonder why we do not know how to free ourselves of everything that this entails, like the famous variations that we always talk about and which we say on all occasions: perhaps because we forget them? The quality of the project and its definition must be strongly linked, indissolublely. Well the reduction of the contracting stations, absolutely yes and in a drastic way, beginning with the efficiency of the CONSIP, as was mentioned by the rapporteur, and - I add - of the controls. Well the overcoming of the logic of the maximum decrease: when you have widespread phenomena like that of the decrease of 60 percent, to mistake are either the society or the designer. Not even a law would be needed, common sense would suffice, but ours is not the country of common sense and then we must have clear laws, at least at the level of other civil countries, made of few norms, therefore drastically cut. It has been said that we are a country of lawyers, and I must say that it is quite curious, with all respect for the profession and for those who practice it: when are important public and private subjects who realize important and strategic works in our country are almost all lawyers? There are issues that are not sidelined, such as the social safeguard clause, otherwise we will see repeated events such as that of the Multiservices of Rome, the systematic dismantling of thousands of workers and workers. Sometimes we have dealt - and rightly so - with a few dozen or, at most, a few hundred productive subjects. In this case we are talking about 2,700 workers and workers in a very delicate sector, such as the world of education and education, who have no safeguard, from this point of view, compared to the laws and competitions that will be put in place. This is the place and the Government has the responsibility to give answers, today we are discussing the reform of the procurement code; Today, because that is the responsibility of politics and the institutions. ( [[References by the President).]] That is why we have accepted, in the preparation of the amendments to the Commission, public works, among others, also the demands of the decalogue "Legality and quality in public works" signed by Legambiente, Libera and CGIL, CISL and UIL, because it is not secondary but fundamental. We must thin out, go down hard, with the machete, because it is a delegation and the government must receive a strong and clear signal. It is also in the many norms, in the thousands of norms, as has been said by some senator who preceded me, that corruption is lurking, the impossibility of access for a true and free competition; even there are lurking mafias, interests, criminal organizations: nothing but stories! It takes courage, here, today, now, in the days that separate us from the approval of this delegation, to send a signal to the government clear, clear, precise, that it cannot be misunderstood in the drafting - which I hope does not take the two years remembered by Senator Carraro - fast and consistent of the norm, compared to the indications that this delegation gives. Finally, there was talk of public debate. There is a draft law presented and others can be added. But I say one thing at once: there is not only the binding element. Discussing is nice for everyone, but then you have to understand what cogency we give to the interlocution towards the associations and the populations. Above all, we must have a binding debate and decision on clear projects that do not change in the course of their journey, as has often been the case. An example for everyone: the Tyrrhenian highway. The administrations, the municipalities, the provinces that have been consulted about a project, on which they may have even expressed positive opinions, then there is another project. We are not talking about ideology, but about a motorway: if a project is absolutely different, we can still call it the motorway, but it is something else; if its impact on the territory is devastating, it is something else. ( [[Applause from Senator Barozzino).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u45	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u46	Mr President, today we are talking about the rewriting of this code of public contracts, a text that, although adopted for a little less than ten years, has from the beginning greatly disappointed expectations, ensuring neither efficiency nor transparency in the procedures of custody, not penalising incomplete works, indeed favouring this typology, and giving space to shameful episodes of corruption that have affected all the great works of our country. Just think of the TAV, the Expo and the MOSE. Having said this brief but due premise, what is perplexed is the instrument used to transpose these directives, that is, that of the delegation, that recognizes to the government a freedom and a political discretion that frankly would not deserve, in the light above all of the innumerable scandals and corruptions that have recently invested the Ministry of Infrastructure, with the involvement of the former minister Lupi, Ercole Incalza & company. The original version of the delegation was extremely wide and in fact recognised the Commission's broad margin of discretion in the rewriting of the new code. Parliament's examination also allowed, thanks to the work of the Commission and the important contribution of M5S colleagues, to introduce stricter criteria and targets and to better direct the work of the Executive during the writing of delegated decrees. With this in mind, the Directive also regulates the sub-contracting of the concession, establishing that compliance by subcontractors with existing environmental, social and labour law obligations must be ensured through appropriate actions by national competent authorities within the framework of their responsibilities and competences, such as labour inspection agencies or environmental protection agencies. These are rules that would fit perfectly for many national public services, such as motorway concessions, but this is not the case, given that in Article 5 of Decree-Law No 133 of 2014, better known as the release of Italy, the Government has assured the dealers' lobby an automatic renewal of the concessions, preventing them from being subject to public tender. It is not only Europe that is demanding a reform of the motorway concessions sector, asking for greater transparency in the allocation and management of concessions, but also the president of the National Anti-corruption Authority, Canton, who already in the weeks that led to the approval of the unblock Italy expressly asked the Government to review the rules of automatic renewal of concessions, because contrary to the European Union's request for their allocation with public tender. The sector, during the parliamentary term, has been at the heart of numerous parliamentary questions, also on my part, for the continuous and heavy increases in tariffs, on average 15%, with the non-compliance of service contracts by dealers. In Italy we are - as it were - reluctant to award public works contracts and services by means of regular public tenders, and we continue to favour the system of private negotiation, automatic renewal of concessions, in derogation from what the European Union requires. According to the European Union, tenders are only awarded by private negotiation in situations of particular exceptionality. If we fail to dissociate ourselves from this modus operandi, we will not be able to prevent corruption and mischief. The same ANAC denounced this bad practice, noting, on a sample of 20 municipalities capital of Region, that 80% of the orders of more than 40,000 euros are assigned by private negotiation, contrary to what established by the European norm. The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Renzi, continues, one day yes and the other as well, to promote the change of the wind of politics and to stress that there is a change. Well, it is on these reliefs moved by ANAC that it should intervene when it has to exercise this delegation, but the premises are not the right ones, if we continue to go on along the path started with the unblocking Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u47	Senator Gibiino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today in this House we are debating the delegation that the Senate gives to the Government in order to transpose the three directives adopted at European level concerning the award of concession contracts, public contracts and procurement procedures of entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors. The delegation is in fact aimed at reordering the rules in force in our legal system in the matter of public contracts relating to works, services and supplies. The legislative process has involved all the bodies of the European Union: the Commission as proposer, the European Parliament and the Council as co-legislators. This process ended with the entry into force of the Directives on 18 April 2014. The measure, if on the one hand it has elements that are certainly agreeable, on the other it highlights important criticalities. Of the directives that will be transposed into the body of internal regulations I share the need, that is to revise and rationalize the matter as a whole, that moreover in our Country often becomes a sensitive topic attributable to unpleasant events; I share the objective, that is to create a system more streamlined, transparent and effective, necessary in order to guarantee legal certainty in the field and to ensure effective competition and a level playing field between economic operators. The rationale behind European acts, i.e. modernising the procurement and concessions sector, is certainly acceptable, setting out the right way to create an effective and efficient system, capable of contributing to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth while ensuring the most efficient use of public funding. Optimisation of the use of public resources is a top priority. This is better understood by considering the data from a comparative study that public authorities spend around 18% of national GDP on supply, works or services contracts. In this respect, it seems necessary to ensure that public funding is well spent, especially in the eyes of our citizens who have the right to see public money used efficiently. In this respect, I welcome the provision in the delegation to prepare forms of public debate, inspired by the model of the French public débat, the local communities of the territories concerned by the implementation of major infrastructure projects having an impact on the environment or on spatial planning. I share this intention, as I believe it is right and proper to consult and involve public opinion. Of course, mechanisms should be put in place to ensure, on the one hand, that the voice of the local communities is taken into consideration and, on the other hand, that the opinion of the communities does not result in sterile and instrumental disputes, the sole aim of which would be to interrupt the implementation of major strategic works. Further positive aspects, which derive from the provisions of the directives and which are specifically referred to in the principles and guiding criteria to be followed by the Government in the exercise of the delegation, are primarily concerned with the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises through the opening-up of large contracts; secondly, the simplification of the bureaucratic burden on economic operators; and finally, the drafting of a single text called the Public Procurement Code and the concession contracts. Divide the work into smaller lots means that even smaller companies can participate in the races. The text of the Directive states that contracts should be adapted to the needs of SMEs. More specifically, the delegation also refers to micro-enterprises and newly established enterprises, providing, in order to improve the conditions of access to the public procurement market, the prohibition of artificial aggregation of contracts in order to ensure their effective possibility of participation. With regard to charges, the delegation shall provide for the reduction of the documentary and economic burden on the participating parties. Criteria are also laid down for the main use of computer-based advertising tools for notices and invitations to tender, and the use of telematic auctions is also envisaged. Finally, I find that the drafting of the single text is no longer procrastinable. This is a fact and those who have the opportunity to follow the award of contracts are fully aware of it. The vast majority of public procurement in Italy takes place only after having made hundreds and hundreds of derogations from the current procurement code; it is a code of more than three hundred articles and an equally comprehensive and complex body of provisions contained in the implementing regulation, in turn, corrected and amended. It is therefore necessary to draw up a streamlined text, which is easy to consult, and which is not lost in cumbersome provisions intended to be exempted. While, on the one hand, what has been said so far essentially reveals our openness with regard to the text prepared by the Commission (which contains several amendments proposed by us), on the other hand it seems appropriate to present further improvements in this House. One of the most important ones, which is the subject of our amendment which will shortly be voted on, is that relating to subcontracting. The draft law of the Government states that the competitor has the obligation to indicate in the offer both the parts of the works he intends to subcontract and a tern of names of subcontractors for each type of work planned in the project. In our amending proposal, on the other hand, the contractor is obliged to indicate the name of the subcontractors after the award of the contract and, at the latest, at the beginning of the execution of the subcontracting contract, as it is counterproductive to indicate the subcontractors already at the tendering stage, because it means placing a considerable burden on economic operators - especially small and medium-sized enterprises - and also due to the considerable amount of time between the award of the contract and the execution of the subcontracting work. It is urgent to define the economic and financial capacity requirements that economic operators must have in order to participate in the tendering procedures. In our view, it should be specified that the possibility of regulating qualification requirements on a case-by-case basis, i.e. invitation to tender, concerns only service and supply contracts, for which, unlike works contracts, there is no single SOA qualification system which has general and multi-annual validity. On the other hand, it is appropriate to specify the economic and financial requirements of economic operators only with regard to contracts exceeding the EUR 20 million threshold. The qualification system for economic operators still needs to be clarified. The delegation shall draw a line towards the revision of the existing system, on the basis, inter alia, of the criteria for transparency and verification of the real organisational capacities, as well as criteria for the activities actually carried out. Well, our proposal aims to eliminate the adjective "real" with regard to the company's capabilities, since it would seem to refer to the actual possession of specific equipment, while for the company it could also be convenient to locate the necessary equipment; moreover it intends to eliminate the adverb actually, since it could lend itself to a distorted interpretation aimed at preventing the work carried out by subcontracting from being used for qualification. In conclusion, our opinion on the content of the delegation is largely positive. The hope is that the government in the delegated decrees will adhere to the guiding principles and criteria and will not upset the installation and objectives of the European directives, which represent a flywheel from which we must leave to reform our public procurement sector. Finally, through parliamentary control, we will ensure that the opportunity is not wasted to make discipline more consistent with the economic environment, and more effective to ensure access to small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applause from Senator Pagnoncelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u49	He's enlisted to speak Senator Filippi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, I also confess that it is a bit bleak, as well as depressing, to intervene in an almost deserted Chamber when considering a measure, such as the reform of the procurement code, which is an act of delegation to the Government that can really connotate a process of structural reform that is important for our country and to stimulate a more transparent and efficient development than we have hitherto, unfortunately, recorded. The work carried out so far in the Commission and with the Government has moved along two fundamental lines: on the one hand, to rewrite the rules for effective legality in the process of relying on works, services and supplies that take place with public money, and on the other hand, to establish a system of rules that produces greater efficiency in the realizations in terms of time and resource expenditure: in a word, to combat unnecessary bureaucracy and waste and simplification of rules. These two beliefs, before any other reason, are based on the awareness of the bad evidence that they have given of themselves the existing norms, which have determined and/or allowed in the years behind us, the prolification of unjustified and unjustified corruptive systems, without, however, realizing the expected and expected works. Therefore, starting from the macroscopic errors present and past to build a healthy future and hope is not a slogan, but the sine qua non condition not to put the country back into Bonis. This conviction, moreover, has been reinforced by the fact that, in addition to respect for certain times when the reform process must take place, the new Community directives must be transposed by April next year. This also requires the awareness that within the current framework it is unthinkable to merely transpose them into a body of legislation that is already unmanageable today. Think only of systematic recourse to derogations to circumvent rules and quirks that do not determine for any legal certainty. I quote, for example, the story of the Expo, only the last, in temporal terms, of extraordinary events for our country. Well, for the Expo more than eighty have been accounted for, and to this added the role that had to be expected for the ANAC of Cantone in order to resolve disputes and corruptive systems become structural to the realization system of the event. Is it necessary then to remember that the current code consists, between primary rules and implementing regulation, of more than 600 articles and of thousands of paragraphs or that the implementing regulation of the code, which has come four years after the enactment of the code itself, has produced a mixture of rules that do not fully define areas and boundaries between two instruments and therefore between primary and secondary norms? How is it necessary to remember that the legislator, at various levels, but certainly among the most influential have distinguished the ministerial lavatory and the powerful lobby of the sector, in recent years have produced more than 50 rewrites to the text for more than 650 total changes to the code and the regulation? And finally it is necessary to remember that for a long time, in this country, if a work or an event were to be carried out, the recourse to civil protection and its related system of derogation was the golden rule to have the certainty of the result, as was said then, cost what, so much to pay were the Italians? Here, the work we are presenting today is only the first step in a complex but necessary reform to change the rules in an area which, in some respects, has worked contrary to what it should have done. The measure of delegation to the Government, I still want to emphasize, provides for the complete rewriting of the current code because the only transposition of Community directives would have produced the effect of giving greater discretion to the public administration, an aspect certainly not practicable in the face of the phenomena of corruption of which every day the chronicles, unfortunately, bear witness. Greater discretion in public administration - as, in fact, Europe asks us - in our country, at this stage, only makes sense if we are able to impose a profound cultural leap in the modus operandi of our public administration. A cultural leap that I want to sum up: we need to move quickly from a culture of acts to a culture of facts, where the formal control of the papers for the permits to make gives way to a substantial control of the achievements and the implementation methods: more controls on the yards and less cards in the offices! It is necessary to move from a formal fulfilment in the conduct of a tender procedure to a more complex system of transparency and advertising that is able to monitor also ex ante and ex post what happens at that time. In a word, it is necessary to define a system capable of making traceable all the procedures of trust but also the subjects that compete and the successive stages of realization, without that it constitutes a costly increase of expense, but that it happens in certain times and with simplified procedures. On the substance, the provision contains many principles of delegation on which the Government is called to rewrite the new procurement code in full with a single legislative decree and at the same time - I would like to ask on this point, as far as possible, your attention - also the implementing regulation. In referring to the rapporteur's introductory report, I would merely briefly refer to a number of aspects and highlight the most qualifying elements of the measure, in my view, starting with a new system required for the qualification of contractors and contractors, which is central to the measure which wants to combat both the purchase of qualification certificates, as unfortunately happened in current practice, but also significantly reduce the margin of discretion of contracting stations. The measure aims to indicate to the government also a drastic reduction in the number of contracting stations, as has been well remembered by those who preceded me, of which no one, today, knows the precise number, lied a number ranging from 20,000 to more than 36,000 In our opinion, a number between 250 and 300 across the country would be a reasonable number in order to allow effective control and systematic qualification of the same, without causing congested phenomena in the escape of demands for trust work. By delegation, the Government is asked to write rules that exceed the logic of the award of the maximum reduction, in order to accept the principle in conformity with the directive, of a priority use of the most economically advantageous offer in a framework of clarity in the cost-quality ratio of the supply, the product or the service, which is the subject of custody. The logical consequence is that in the delegation there is contained a specific attention to the qualification of the design moment - an aspect recalled by many interventions - responding to specific architectural and urbanistic standards and that above all it is not the victim of the economic dynamics of the realization enterprises, but that it constitutes on the contrary a factor of qualification of the process of trust and the subsequent realization. This is to determine the concept that custody should no longer take place on the preliminary draft, unless duly justified and justified by specific conditions and for those duly authorised, but exclusively on an executive project or at the ultimate end. It follows that the variations in the course of work are limited to cases only due to unforeseen and unforeseeable circumstances and, as usual, always duly justified and previously authorised. Another qualifying aspect of the measure is the principle of a greater selection of the commissioners of competition and the composition of the commissions awarded to us, providing for the first to hold a special register at DAC, with the conditions of competence required and the conditions of incompatibility, for the second, the forecast of a draw system that renders the composition of the commission unpredictable and indeterminate by some. Another issue mentioned in the delegation measure concerns the formula of the so much discussed, in recent months, of integrated procurement and general contractor, especially because of the effects that this practice has produced in terms of commingling and corruption between companies and public administration. Here I feel like emphasizing the profound distance between what we have written and what was mentioned by reason of the objective law. The indications go in the sense of predicting that it is no longer the prerogative of the contractor general to appoint the Director works, but to return to the ownership of the contracting station. The same use of the integrated contract is strongly limited to those cases where it is justified by the presence of specialist works with a high technological innovation value of more than 70% of the amount of work. A high-value rule is that the maximum reduction in labour-intensive service contracts should be cancelled and that many interventions have focused on. The text indicates those with a percentage of more than 50% of the auction amount, for which a national collective agreement corresponding to the performance of the required tasks is also envisaged. There is no wink at the union members, there is only the need to put an end to the social butchery of these years, accomplished without distinction to the right, left and centre. It is of great importance to the rule that calls on the Government to review the rules on subcontracting, with a view to better protecting the companies used in these cases and that in recent years have been those that more than others have made the expenses for the disputes between the purchasing centre and the contractor of the works. The text provides for an indication of the percentage of the work to be carried out under subcontracting, their type and also a percentage in which there is an explicit reference to the firms to be used, so it also provides for the possibility of direct payment of the contracting station to the subcontractors for the performance of the work carried out and duly certified. An absolute novelty is the introduction of a soft law regime, which aims to standardize procedures to improve controls and traceability, with the forecast and adoption of standard tenders as far as possible. In this way it is also more rigorous to indicate the discipline that must regulate the testing commissions, with the forecast of specific albums whose maintenance is maintained by the Ministry and where here too the criteria of exclusion and incompatibility are rigorous. Finally, attention has been given to the timing and the terms in which the procedures for the supervision and execution of the work are defined - and I would like to call on Mr Cantini to do so - so that the natural process of greater concentration which the measure as a whole is inspired does not undermine the need for the efficiency and effectiveness of the measures taken. In conclusion, I also point out the forecast of the application of participatory forms and instruments in the design of the great works that refer to the French experience of the public débat, to a substantial revision of the discipline of profit to correct the distortions that have occurred in recent years and to the theme of an effective and practicable forecast of the institution of the global guarantee, today strongly foreclosed. A separate speech would deserve the Institute of Concessions, which only saves time for discussion, but which shows that, as the rapporteur pointed out, in line with and in perfect correspondence with the European Union Directive, the fact that any renewal must be subject to an appropriate form of public evidence procedure. Finally, I would like to give the House an account of the extraordinary work done by the Government, the rapporteurs and the Commission as a whole, in a climate of great positivity and loyal confrontation. I believe that even today's debate, although the House has not in any way honored us, has indeed borne witness to the quality of the debate, which has produced a process of progressive refinement and improvement of the text under consideration. The merit is to be attributed, before everyone else, to Deputy Minister Nencini, whom I sincerely thank, as well as for the patience and the assiduousness of the presence, also and above all for the great and intelligent work carried out both in terms of the method, with an extraordinary and unusual willingness to confront, and of merit, with an initial text - and here I differ from my colleagues and friends of SEL - which, in my opinion, was already a good starting point. Similarly, I would also like to take into account the truly exemplary work done by the rapporteurs, who have interpreted their role to the best of their ability, producing substantial changes to the text in constant respect for the Government and the Commission. Finally, I should also like to thank the President of the Commission, who has not been trivial or obvious, who has really guided the work of examining the measure with political wisdom, moreover, from a political condition of opposition, never coming to his role as institutional guarantor. Finally, I would like to say another thank you, which is also not obvious, to all colleagues for the enrichment they have produced in the text and for the sincere and loyal confrontation that never veils differences in the field, but exalts them and - when it is able to do so - produces synthesis capable of generating positive results for the community. A due thanks to the Offices for the fundamental contribution, not only the impeccable investigation of the acts, but also for their constant reliability in terms of administrative and institutional correctness. Now the ball passes to the Chamber and then to the Government, for the definitive drafting of the new code, that we wait in accordance with the principles of delegation and simplified in form and structure. We are confident that we will not lose sight of ourselves, Mr Vice-Minister, in order to see each other again, in accordance with the procedure, in the Committees on the merits for an opinion which could actually constitute a formality in a job which, in my view, has so far been spotless. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u53	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, Deputy Minister Nencini, aware of the delay, due to my inability to register in due time, but willing to make my contribution, I ask for permission to attach to the report of today's sitting the text of my speech in the general debate on the draft law delegation in the field of procurement, to which I hope the Government will pay attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u54	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. The general debate is closed. At this point, I welcome the circumstances, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u55	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-464.ana.u56	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 16 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.33 p.m.
