ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 12 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u4	The next item is the vote on the resignation of Senators Vacciano, Simeoni and Molinari. By letter received from the Presidency on 22 December 2014, Senator Vacciano announced that he would resign as Senator of the Republic. He asked Senator Vacciano to intervene. You have the right to do so. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, I would ask you to decrease the tone of your voice and to listen to Senator Vacciano, who is entitled to be heard.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reassure you that it is not my intention to dread you with a long speech, distracting your commitment from the much more important issues that this House should deal with. In my life I have never expressed interest in undertaking the so-called "political career," and my commitment in this regard has been linked exclusively to the project of participatory democracy carried out so far by the 5 Star Movement. A project in which the merit of political and organizational choices had to have equal dignity compared to the method by which such choices are made and before they are formed. A project well summarized by Article 4 of our non-status: The 5 Star Movement is not a political party nor is it intended to become a political party in the future. It wants to witness the possibility of achieving an efficient and effective exchange of views and democratic confrontation outside of associative and party ties and without the mediation of managerial or representative bodies, recognizing to all the users of the Network the role of Government and address normally attributed to few. Unfortunately, although I absolutely share the political program of the 5 Star Movement, I can no longer recognize in it a fundamental part of the original intention that led me to enter this prestigious institution. I think it has been exceeded by a method which in no way makes it possible for me to fall within the parameters of the non-status I have just mentioned. I note this in compliance with the will expressed by those who, on the network, intended to ratify the new course of the Movement. However, to those principles, especially to them, was connected the temporary choice of life that involved me and my family, to which I imposed sacrifices that at present no longer have any justification and that therefore I do not intend to further prolong. All I have left is to honour the commitment made with those who shared an adventure with me that lasted seven years and before that with myself: either in the Movement or outside the institutions. I make room with serenity and total freedom for those who in this new course will fully recognize themselves and want to adhere to it with confidence and conviction. It was a great honour to be elected as a senator, but what I am doing at this moment is simply an act due to the citizens who, by voting with the electoral system known as Porcellum, chose not me, perfect unknown, but the symbol, ideas and principles that I have done mine in recent years and modestly tried to represent in everyday life, even before in parliamentary activity. In consistency, I give them back my mandate as spokesperson in the Senate, aware that they are not yet able to carry it forward without going down to unbearable compromises with my conscience. I would like to address a sincere invitation to you, ladies and gentlemen, who, as has rightly been pointed out in the recent past, by virtue of the rules governing the life of this institution, have some of my "personal freedom" in hand. I don't think it's your interest to hear these words again and feel that you share the respect for what this place represents... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u6	I call on my colleagues, in particular Senator Malan and other senators who sit in his part of the Chamber, not to disturb Mr Vacciano's speech, which has a personal and political significance. I would ask, therefore, for some silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Considering that I share with you the respect of what this place represents and I hope that it will continue to represent in the future for the democracy of our country, I ask you to immediately accept my resignation, which I repeat is irrevocable and will in any case be repeated. To each of you, well aware of the fact that our ideas are different and often very distant, I do what for me is the most beautiful wish possible: that in your political activity you can always be sure to bring in these classrooms, in the best way, the voice of all the citizens who have allowed you to enter. Thank you and good work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u8	We shall now proceed to the vote on the resignation presented by Senator Vacciano.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u11	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Senator Vacciano spoke of principles, of personal freedom, but we are here and, although an electoral law has been declared unconstitutional, Article 67 of the Constitution obliges us - because in my opinion we Members of Parliament, as such, are also burdened - to remain despite the arrival of a will such as that expressed by Senator Vacciano, motivated by the fact that we no longer agree with what became the 5 Star Movement. The 5 Star Movement Group was made up of 54 senators and there were, as it were, 18 losses, 18 exits. Some expulsions were done with approximate and very hasty modes. I remember that a person was removed just because she was challenged about the fact that he went on television during the assemblies, when there are colleagues of the 5 Star Movement who go on television even during the budget session, but there is a law for someone and a different law for others. [[Applause from Senator Mastrangeli.]] Others were expelled simply because they criticized Beppe Grillo, even if this is not there, in the famous non-status, despite some of the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, in the face of these expulsions, they said that there were three levels of judgment: some clamorous bales that perhaps we will soon find, also these, on the "Washington Post" or on the "New Yotk Times." Now we are in the Chamber discussing three resignations and I would point out that, in the face of these resignations from the Senate, the 5 Star Movement Parliamentary Group has well thought to expel these senators from the Group. I therefore call on my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement who are in favour of revising Article 67 to engage more and perhaps to ask for more compliance with Article 49 of the Constitution, because we are talking about a democratic method, but it does not seem to me that all these behaviors reflect Article 49, but that they too interpret the Constitution as the wind blows, as the blog says. The Autonomous Group will vote for the rejection of the resignation. Personally, I speak for Senator Vacciano but I also express myself equally for the other two resignations and I urge them not to repeat their request if they do not have an agreement with the Groups, because I think that this House, as Senator Vacciano himself pointed out, has the burden of legislate and not of taking an afternoon to express itself on resignation which, I am sure, will be rejected. My invitation, therefore, to Senator Vacciano, Senator Molinari and Senator Simeoni is to continue to make their valuable contribution, which I, during my stay in the Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement, have been able to verify and I am sure that I am not the only one who thinks so, because I am sure that the members of the Commissions to which these colleagues refer will think the same way. [[Applause.]] ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u14	Orellana (Mist). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, which is also linked to what Senator Battista said. In order not to waste any more time on this House, I would like, if possible, to put all three votes together in a single vote. I believe that a single vote would have the support of the 5 Star Movement, because it is accustomed to making a whole grass a bundle. I emphasize the word "fascio," sincerely, because this is how it works in expulsions: all together, all in one shot. I therefore call, if possible, for the vote to be taken together.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u15	Senator Orellana, according to the Rules of the Senate, resignation is a strictly personal fact, as you think the philosophy of the 5 Star Movement, which we respect, but which still does not inform... [[Senator Marton's comments.]] Don't be upset, Senator Marton: since Senator Orellana called for princes, I said that... MARTON (M5S). Don't you dare comment! [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]] Calm down. I said that the Senate Rules are based on certain principles, such as those that inspire other groups. So let's proceed to the discussion, discussing individually the resignations presented by the individual senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u18	BENCINI (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, someone could say: with all the serious problems that are currently present in Italy (and also outside the country) and that we should try to solve, instead we take our time to reason on the umpteenth existential crisis of a trigger. Someone may be thinking that, but I don't think time is wasted. I believe that what is happening within the country's second political force is something not to be liquidated sufficiently and ironically. We are talking about a political force which - it should be remembered - came to the elections in the hope of overcoming representative democracy. It would therefore be desirable and logical to think that all elected parliamentarians in the 5 Star Movement have clear what kind of democracy they are aiming at and that it is traceable in their behaviour, inside and outside the institutions, a coherence with the ideal objective advocated. It is no coincidence, in fact, that Senator Vacciano, in presenting his resignation, insists on the concept of coherence. Vacciano wrote: "When I first met the 5 Star Movement, which at the time was a simple meetup made up of four cats, I fell in love with the principles of direct democracy and participation that were the basis of our thinking. I found myself perfectly in the idea behind the non-status: that participatory democracy that did not have to foresee any delegation or representation, that "decide together" every political path to be undertaken, that article 4 which reads: "The 5 Star Movement is not a political party, nor is it meant to become a political party in the future." He still writes: I must say that in recent months, more than once, it has seemed to me that some of these principles were put in the background or set aside for a "superior good." I have always expressed my perplexity at the assembly, but I have continued to follow the line outlined in anticipation of more serene times. However, the decisions made and the organizational choices made over the past few weeks (Senator Vacciano refers here to the Directory) are, in my opinion, far from what I have supported and for which I have fought in recent years: a participatory democracy understood as a "joint" formation of decision-making processes and not simply ratification. I have always tried to be consistent in the decisions and from the first day I told Latina's friends and activists that when I had no longer felt completely in line with the ideas of the Movement, I would give way to someone willing to embrace them fully. If I were to give the house keys to someone I can trust, surely this is Vacciano. However, if I were to choose him as a teacher of political doctrines or philosophy, I would have a few more problems. In fact, if consistency with the given word is a question of honesty - I do not doubt Joseph's honesty - the consistency of thought and between thought and behavior is rather a question of logic and awareness. Of logical consistency in your decision, dear Joseph, I see little of it. You quote article 4 of the non-statutory, which denies the idea of considering the 5 Star Movement as a party, but then you consider your parliamentary mandate as a contract with Beppe Grillo and with the elected and M5S members. If a dissenter has to resign or shut up. You believe that the Movement has become a party or taken that drift, and that some fundamental principles have been set aside, but you renounce to continue to defend those principles in Parliament in the name of all citizens, whether registered or not in a blog, who continue to share those values. And in the name of what? You don't believe in the election program you signed up for anymore? Didn't you respect the code of ethics? Don't you believe in the principles that led you to accept your candidacy? You want to join another party? I don't think so. None of this. Perhaps you feel, as Beppe Grillo has recently expressed, that it is right to amend Article 67 and provide for the mandatory mandate for the elect. This was also supported by the President of the Renzi Council, when he said on television that an elected party changer should resign. Evidently, the Premier has changed his mind, given the recent accessions to the PD Group. But Cricket changed it, too. In fact, either you think like Grillo now, or you think like Grillo when he said, in 2010, that Article 67 of the Constitution is very clear: "Each Member of Parliament represents the nation and performs his duties without a mandate." Those who are elected respond to the citizens, not to their party. Or agree with what is written in the book "We are in War," always by Beppe Grillo, where, on page 63, Senator Giovanardi's words are challenged when he said: I'm not dependent on anyone but my constituents. In democracy, everyone responds to his ideas and voters who voted for him. Grillo comments in the book as follows: However, Giovanardi's statement contradicts the Italian Constitution in Article 67. The employee Giovanardi, with his statements, stood out from the Constitution in that he did not respond to the nation, but only to his voters, of whom, being the secret vote, no one will ever know the identity of the nation. Why, then, was there such a radical change of opinion in Article 67 immediately after the general elections? Why is there no reference to the repeal of Article 67 in the political programme we have presented ourselves with? Why is there no mention of resignation in the code of conduct in the event of expulsion or abandonment from the Parliamentary Group? Why does the status of the 5 Star Movement (the one deposited) specify that the elect perform their function without a mandate? Perhaps because the imperative mandate is an idea that is being used today to push uncomfortable parliamentary resignations that do not accept that they betray the principles with which we presented ourselves to the voters. The imperative mandate, like the institute of the recall, is referred to as an out-of-court mandate. In Grillo's current behavior, the representatives are not the citizens, but the members of a party who vote only on what the leader decides to put to the vote and with a vote driven by posts that do not allow contradictory between different options of choice. The 5 Star Movement was to promote democracy, transparency and respect for the rules. They are so good at denouncing their lack in other parties as at setting a bad example. plebiscite votes, ratifications of decisions taken are not known by those who descended from above, guarantor become political leader and decision-maker of any political initiative and strategic choice, expelled parliamentarians violating the rules. And you, Vacciano, will you lend yourself to this scam? I quote article 4 of the non-status but you could also quote the political statement 45 posted on the blog on August 11, 2011. It is the document that best explains what we elected to the 5 Star Movement were supposed to be in Parliament. It says: The possible elected members of the M5S will form a non-parliamentary group in which each will count one. The freedom of any candidate to express himself freely in Parliament without asking permission from any stick leader will be his real strength. The 5 Star Movement wants the citizens to become states, not to replace the parties with another party. Are your resignation consistent with this statement of intent? Stories that when you started, in the Latina meetup you were in four cats. Let me ask you a question: of those four cats, how many have left? How many foxes got into the winner's cart? Have you tried to take a tour of the territories to verify how many advisors, activists and sympathizers have left the 5 Star Movement to remain faithful to those same principles that you quote? Don't they deserve representation or spokesmen? Have they not also contributed to the electoral and political outcome that has brought us here? But we remain in the logic of your choice. You've made up your mind that whoever's gonna replace you in here is gonna agree with this five-star party? If I leave Parliament, for example, who will replace me is one who is already outside the 5 Star Movement. You say you stick to the notion that the network is sovereign, but you resign for a choice ratified by the network, because the network had ratified that that director, the five caregivers, would be fine. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator Bencini. BENCINI (Mixed). All right, I'll finish. Now you can go back to your family and give up the battle, trying to avoid mud, defamations and threats. Or you can accept the challenge of those who want to start again to engage in a different policy, made up of good ideas and free people, who think about the problems of citizens together with citizens, promoting a democracy in which citizens participate, because they are informed and aware of the importance of the choices to be made and the contribution of each to the government of res publica. A policy that chooses dialogue and correct information, not propaganda and defamation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Bencini. BENCINI (Mixed). I'll be right out. I ask you to remain and continue to be faithful to the original principles where this can be done, i.e. in the Mixed Group. On the other hand, to vote in favour of your resignation would mean for me to endorse the view that loyalty to a clan, to a stick leader, to a party, is more important than that loyalty to be recognized to all the citizens of this nation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please, Senator Bencini. BENCINI (Mixed). So you understand for yourself that I can't go against the Constitution, nor can the entire Mixed Group. We'll vote against your resignation. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed-MovX and Mixed-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u21	[[Brusio.]] I call on my colleagues to allow Senator Carraro to make his speech, because that is how it gets really tiring. Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). I would point out, Madam President, that although the vote can only be three, I will make an explanation of vote which will also apply to the subsequent resignation. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we were discussing electoral law a month ago in this House. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u22	Senator Gentile, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u23	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Those who criticized the blocked leaders said that with the blocked leaders we would have a Parliament of nominations, many nominations, and therefore of candidates who would be chosen on the basis of loyalty criteria. Now, we were elected two years ago, 315 senators, and currently 90 of us have changed Group; in a few days, we already know that seven other senators will change Group, because they have already announced it to the public, but they have not yet officialized it. That is, it changes Group, after less than two years, almost a third of those who have been elected. This means that those who filled out the 2013 electoral lists obviously did not adhere to loyalty criteria in choosing candidates and placing them on the lists because, if they had complied with this criterion, we should think that those who compiled the lists were either distracted or unforeseen. I believe that respect must be given to all those who exercise their mandate, who have no bond, in the way they feel best. All opinions are respectable and of course respect the comments of the representatives of public opinion, which in some cases praise and in some cases make real cuts. I'll make a personal note. Of course, there is some concern that there are positive comments to those who turn to the left, while those who change their opinions and turn to the right are usually insulted. However, Voltaire has taught us to allow everyone to express their opinions. While I say this, I think that we cannot fail to respect those who, being in disagreement with the Group in which they were elected, choose the way to resign, unlike what happens in other cases, in which people leave their Group, but maintain their institutional level and sometimes improve it too. That of the three senators we are examining is the case of those who, being in dissension, put their mandate back. I think it is an act that must be considered with respect. I quote for gallantry first Ivana Simeoni, then Giuseppe Vacciano and Francesco Molinari, who have exercised their mandate in the Chamber and in the Commission for two years, devoting their passion and professionalism to the work they have carried out with seriousness. [[Applause from Senators Bencini, Fucksia and Mussini]] Forza Italia respects the work they have done, judges them political opponents worthy of respect, but it is right to reject the resignation because their motivation seems noble and respectable, but we believe it is right that they continue to exercise the mandate that has been entrusted to them by the voters. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and Mixed Groups and Senator Baptist.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u24	We welcome the students of the Technical Institute "Enrico Tosi" in Busto Arsizio, in the province of Varese, who are today visiting the Senate. Welcome, guys! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u27	LEPRI (PD). Madam President, we are going to vote again today on the request for resignation from some of our colleagues. I would like these moments not to become a tired procedure because they are always a noble gesture of colleagues who make their mandate available to Parliament because they decide to question their behaviour in relation to the mandate they feel they have had by the parliamentary force that elected them. This time too, as before, the Democratic Party will vote against the acceptance of resignation, i.e. reject them. The arguments have already been put forward on many other occasions, but I believe that this House will not tire of listening to them. First of all, the very great principle of Article 67 of the Constitution, the freedom and the right of every Member of Parliament to operate without a mandate. In essence, each of us responds, even before our own party, to the voters who wanted to reward him in sending him to Parliament, precisely, to represent them. Our colleagues must not justify it: it was the Constitutions that gave them a full mandate to represent the citizens who voted for them. They alone are the interpreters of the mandate that has been entrusted to them. In addition, they have not committed any crimes. As previous speakers have pointed out, they have behaved well, with dedication and commitment, in this House as in the committees to which they take part. There are no abnormal behaviors that can in any way justify our own different assessment from that of confirmation. We do not want to enter the house of others; we certainly respect a great party, a great Group like that of the 5 Star Movement, and we can also say that, in the absence of a law applying Article 49 of the Constitution, we can also be parties without rules or that exclusively respond to the wishes of their founder. We have another idea: a tiring idea of building a democratic party within which decisions are taken together, with participatory mechanisms; within which dissent is also respected, although we know the importance of the cohesion of the Group vote. We have another idea. And that is why, on occasions like these, we think it is increasingly necessary not only to confirm the confidence of our colleagues, but also to make a solemn commitment to apply Article 49 of the Constitution which establishes democracy in the functioning of the parties and which, indeed, has been waiting for decades to finally be applied. It is in this sense, with this wish and with the full recognition of the loyalty and commitment of our colleagues that we will vote against the acceptance of the missions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u30	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, I note in this House a basic hypocrisy that is creeping. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I hear Senator Lepri talking about rejection of resignation after voting favorably to those of Senator Ghedini and Senator Marino. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So let's face it, let's face it, let's face it: it's better for you not to accept this resignation, because three of our senators would be replaced. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You'd better be less of us. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Let's face it, let's not get past it like you're doing when you say that at the first vote the resignation is not accepted. That's not true, Senator Carraro, it's not like that at all. These three senators have decided to go home; they have decided for a noble reason; it is one of the few times that happens in this House that three people take this responsibility and you are doing everything you can to hold them back because it suits you, not because you respect their positions. It only suits you. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Scilipoti Isgrò.]] I repeat, therefore, let's not take ourselves by the bottoms. I therefore ask you to go further; I will not insist on certain evils that have been said and done exclusively in the personal interest of some people, to whom I do not repeat either. [[Comments of Senator Bencini]] I therefore ask you to vote in favour, because these three people have the right to go back to doing what they did and have asked with all good will. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Bravo! CASALETTO (Mixed). You're fake!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u33	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Senator Marton, I respect you and your opinions very much, but you must respect those of others. Personally (there are the Annexes to the Report that testify), for a matter of principle, as I felt to do - declaring it publicly - on the occasion of my refusal of the resignation of Senator Marino, I will return to exactly the same principle. I believe that this first-rate resignation must be rejected, in line with a tradition that this House has. If someone applies different morals, it's a problem that doesn't concern me. Personally, I stick to principles that I have always respected. [[Congratulations. Senator Marton's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u34	Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot on the resignation submitted by Senator Vacciano. Senators for resignation will press the green button at the center of the voting position; opposing senators will press the red button on the right; senators who intend to abstain will press the white button on the left. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and Mixed Groups]] By letter received from the Presidency on 22 December 2014, Senator Simeoni announced that she would resign as Senator of the Republic. She asked Senator Simeoni to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, dear citizens, at the end of the first speech before a court, Nelson Mandela spoke the following words: I have cultivated the ideal of a democratic and free society, in which all people live together in harmony and with equal opportunities. It is an ideal for which I hope to live and which I hope to reach, but, if necessary, it is an ideal for which I am willing to die. I am a simple citizen, but I have always found a deep inspiration in these words. I've always thought that it's ideals that move mountains and make people's lives meaningful. I also thought that when I was a girl, I worked in factories and beat myself in the streets with the other workers. That's what I thought when I was in the hospital assisting terminally ill people. And I thought that when, after a lifetime of fighting from below, I approached a political project that I thought was right. It was a project of joy and hope that was based on strong and profoundly just ideals: honesty, transparency, competence, democracy from below, respect for neighbour and nature. The route was clear and illuminated by these ideals and the final goal was great. It's been two years since those days. If we look back we see many battles, some won, many lost. Many of us have deep scars. They are no longer the unsubstantiated citizens who came in with me. They have hardened themselves, often to the point of becoming cynical. But all this did not upset me: as I said, I have always struggled in my life and I know well how the struggle can change people. No, the reason why I decided to take a step back is not related to my comrades of misfortune, who in spite of everything have always made me feel part of a group. The reason is that too many of those ideals that showed us the way, over time, have been set aside. They've become more opaque. And the road is no longer illuminated as when we started, and as a result, looking forward, you no longer understand what the goal is. The initial joy and enthusiasm have, too quickly, turned into aggression and suspicion and other even more negative feelings. Too many times in my decisions I have had to take an act of trust by forcing myself for the common good. But trust must be mutual, not one-way. I believed very much in the project that led me to Parliament, but at some point the failure of too many fundamental elements, first of all that of democracy from below, made me realize that we have now gone too far. The electoral mandate that was entrusted to me was based on solid and democratic foundations and on what we would build our home with. But I realized that this house is being built with too many holes in the foundation and I can't stand by while the dream so beautiful that we had drawn in the non-statutory is brutally modified. Accepting this reality and presenting my resignation was not easy and brought me great suffering; that very great suffering that comes to you from the loss of a dearest relative or from the extinction of a hope. But I want to think that this gesture of mine can help to make someone think, to change something, to bring everyone back to the wonderful path that we had chosen at the beginning of our adventure. In a book by Piero Calamandrei, recently given to me by Gianroberto Casaleggio, at a certain point is told the story of a German teenager who goes to the gallows at the hands of his own compatriots. Before he was executed, he turned to a German soldier, who was about to shoot him, and with a smile he said to him: I die for you, too. Long live free Germany. Well, I've presented my resignation for you, too. Long live the Free Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u36	We shall now proceed to the vote on the resignation presented by Senator Simeoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u39	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, I would like to make a thought which I would also like to hear from the children who listen to us. My reflection starts from the sadness that exists in the words of Joseph and Ivana. And it is the same sadness that there was in the words of others who followed this process. As Senator Simeoni said, the project was born on banquets, with free sacrifice, and certainly did not have party discipline, which certainly is the one that allows you to find a way, to move from one Group to another, to choose a position, to perhaps live even more serenity the events from which obviously no Group and no party is immune and that we see every day. [[Applause from Senator Molinari.]] Here is our story: we entered here, in Parliament, with a heritage of ideals, which do not have a master: they do not have a master, Ivana, they do not have a master, Joseph, they do not have a master, Francis. Ideals do not have a master. It is certainly a duty to bring with them ideals, at a time when the master of a symbol proves that he is no longer consistent with these same ideals. This is the road - the hardest road - because it is clearly the subject of attacks, even hateful, which, in view of the choice of coherence that we have made, have instead exposed us to unjustified comments. "You do it for money": that's what we hear most often. Yet this is not the case, and those who first know it are those who make these attacks in an instrumental way. Or else other attacks are being made on us by those who use these 16 senators like a baton, to crawl at each other, saying: They will go to support the Renzi Government, or: They're going to support this or that. Well gentlemen, instead we - with difficulty, we recognize it - with the difficulty of creating a synthesis, we are trying to carry forward those ideals with which we entered here, without the coverage of a Group, which is much more comfortable. We are in a mixed group, we are with SEL's colleagues; we are, we are working and we are debating, even in a meaningful way; we are comparing our different positions, but in the end the road is the one indicated by the values with which we have entered and with which we continue to work. This, Joseph, is a non-Group, because this is us. We are free people, who are not chasing each other to go on television before another, after one of the first to be thrown out, was thrown out just because of the "G" point of Ballarò. We don't run on television, we don't try to make shoes for each other, to have the last or first word, we don't use the Group's money to pay apartments, trips or dinners for friends of the "Casaleggio Associati". We are here, we are working, we are taking forward the demands of citizens and the laws that come from the popular initiative. Now I know, colleagues of the 5 Star Movement: I have worked with you and taken individually I know that you are very great workers; many of you are skinning for this. Problem is, I seem to see hamsters running inside their wheel, inside a cage. They run and do important things too, but the problem is that that cage isn't in their hands, but it's taken from here and there by someone and you don't know who. The invitation that I make to my colleagues is therefore to continue: they have made the gesture that I myself have made, which is a gesture due, for those who enter here, with the "5 Star Principles." I am talking about principles: this is a gesture due to those who consecrate everything to their own coherence. It is a necessary gesture, but now it calls you, once you have been re-elected by an elected assembly, to do your job, because perhaps you can feel yourself as representatives of those millions of voters who have ceased to believe in a symbol, whose values are perhaps no longer so pursued. [[Applause from the Misto-MovX Group and Senators Fucksia and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u42	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, fellow retired senators, I have listened very carefully to the reasons behind your resignation. These are profound reasons, beyond the quotations of Calamandrei and the jurist's writings. In particular also the intervention of Senator Mussini, is an intervention that underlies a suffering of the soul and therefore a decision that has reached the final phase of a difficult and heavy path. I agree with what President Casini said: we reject resignation by practice, in this Senate and also in the Chamber of Deputies, for an issue that I would also call stylish and polite, perhaps in order to allow even further reflection to be given to you resigned senators. However, when we come to a conclusion in such a grievous way, I do not think that it can lead to a change of heart or to a suggestion of behaviour that goes beyond those that have been drawn for their future. You had two choices, resigned colleagues: by no longer sharing the lines of the policy of your Movement, you could change the bench and go to sit in the ranks of the Mixed Group, expressing those positions of freedom referred to by Senator Mussini. As for the act of resigning, if I should ever resign one day, it would be irreversible resignation and a vote of form, style and grace of this House would not be enough to cause me to change my mind. Today, therefore, considering that I have to adapt to a tradition in this House, I will vote no to your resignation, but I invite you to reflect in the short time that will be immediately after the vote of the House, which will certainly reject your resignation: if your motives are so heard, so suffered and so profound, they should mean, in my opinion, an irreversible choice. You also know that in a second vote the Senate Assembly, respecting your ideas and positions, would accept your resignation. Otherwise it would be the exploitation of a practice: one has the certainty of rejecting resignation in order to remain seated to carry out the parliamentary mandate. You could have done so anyway, changing the bench and avoiding - if you will allow me - this charade, if not even this scenery. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u43	Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot on the resignation of Senator Simeoni. Senators for resignation will press the green button at the center of the voting position; opposing senators will press the red button on the right; senators who intend to abstain will press the white button on the left. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. By letter received from the Presidency on 29 January 2015, Senator Molinari announced that he would resign as Senator of the Republic. He asked Senator Molinari to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u44	Mr President, senators and senators, embarrassment - and not a little - must be found to speak in these circumstances: by now we ex of the 5 Star Movement periodically perhaps bore you - alas, Senator Falanga - with what may seem to be individual practices of certain customary styling exercises. I will try to steal from this House, which should be interested in the problems of the citizens, as little time as possible and, before you mention those smiles of those who already doubted a political force, I will try to involve you in a speech that I believe is common to all of us and that hides in the folds of our Constitution. I - as I hope most of you - have always thought that politics should coincide with what is most deeply believed, what constitutes the moral beliefs most rooted in the individual, not necessarily - of course - the most righteous or useful. My accession to the Movement, back in 2007, when we still did not imagine possible a commitment in the institutions nor, much less, the very creation of a political subject, was dictated by the need to fill that distance from the politics clearly perceived by us citizens, starting from the smaller institutional spaces to end up with the larger ones. After all, my objective was simple: to help achieve a fairer society and in which being free was actually a priority over everything else. A goal that in recent months I have seen rapidly fade into the new version of the Movement, that of a party, alas, and of the worst species. An association, I remind myself, is a group to which you voluntarily adhere, which comes from a contract and of which you can be part even without meeting physically because you are bound by an ideal bond, I dare say ethical. In the 5 Star Movement this ideal constraint had to be sufficient for any formal moment and this is what was not understood to the end of the revolution inherent in the 5 Star Movement. It was in fact intended to favour the horizontality of a political force, seen simply as a means of ensuring the Group's decision and not that of individualism, although it perceived the need - even more so when it was decided to enter the institutions - to equip itself with a democratic and horizontal organization, because democracy is not chaos, as those who really love it know. In this deliberate absence of formalisms, capable of establishing rights and duties among adherents, I believed, thinking that the ethical bond should lead to an individual self-regulation finding within the internal curia the limits; just as I assumed that to recall the moral law within each of us was sufficient a simple guarantor to oversee a pro-forma statute, with the sole task of remembering the founding pact. A non-status, as my colleagues have pointed out, transformed over time, into rag paper, beginning with the statute deposited at the time of the general elections, that pro-forma act made by Grillo, with his lawyer and the accountant for the sole purpose of protecting, alas, his property, his trademark! And I am sorry for those who still have confidence in a brand that treats them as employees, people with whom I have shared my concerns about this becoming in recent months. Months that have seen me under an ignoble and slanderous shot by others, instead, who have always acted in the shadows, while in public they stood up to young Savonarola to draw a miserable advantage from infamies scattered behind my back as only cowards dare to do! How, then, can we continue to believe in a political force whose autonomous "head of necessity" - because we went on to say on the stages before the general elections: necessary only because it must be required by the electoral law - betrayed Article 4 of the non-status, recalled by my colleague Vacciano? What was to be the founding norm of our only internal law laid at the foundation of the associative ethical covenant. It is an essential norm precisely to avoid the party-political drifts of a movement of free citizens, whose sole purpose was to be an instrument - with a built-in maturity - to achieve that revolution that was to produce a new citizen, free because he was active and consciously informed, and ready to participate in the life of his own community, in defence of the Republican Constitution and of common goods. A betrayal, that of the founding ideals, which has made the Movement more and more hostage of personal drives, as in the final story of the expulsions "telephones" of Senators Vacciano and Simeoni. The freedom of association is closely linked to that of the manifestation of thought and both constitute a precondition for the exercise of all political rights: do we want to ask the activists to be trusted and expelled in a summary way and without real explanations in these months, under mandate to a lawyer, throughout the national territory, if such freedom has been respected? Directory, committees of probi viri (created only after expulsion and distrusts hundreds of activists) and regional referents, all descended from above, are the proven proof of the betrayal of the "one worth" and of the horizontality, by those who assumed the role of guarantor. Already in the constituent assembly, as has been mentioned, a danger inherent in the relationship between the freedom of the individual and the freedom of association of the parties was not underestimated if it was proposed to connect the party to respect for the fundamental principles of freedom and dignity of the human person. And of no minor importance was the position that represented the need to specify the meaning of the democratic method, as a criterion that should also refer to internal organization and direct action to the determination of national politics, by political parties. On the occasion of the past Christmas festivities, a network prophet, the same network that "democratically" hoards through influencers and phony nicks against those who want to get rid of his yoke, gave us (as my colleague Simeoni recalled) a little book by Piero Calamandrei who - if he read - struggles to think that he has fully understood the teaching. In "The State we are," the constituent Father states: When faith (and several times here we have been asked to make an act of faith) is transformed into a party, and political struggle becomes a war of religion, the confessional party is brought even without wanting it, even without realizing it, to behave as a totalitarian party: as long as it is a minority, it will defend freedom, because it will try to use it to become a majority; but once it becomes a majority, it will feel the duty to deny the freedom of others, because the believer has the duty to blindly obey the one truth that can save it, and to fight to bar the way to heresy that means perdition. "Believe, obey, fight" becomes the only watchwords. If someone thought they could make me a telephone terminal, he made a mistake: I don't do politics in franchising! Calamandrei also recalled in the written statement that the sovereign democratic state is the one whose determinations depend only on the collective will of his people, expressed by a democratic method, and not by will or by external forces, which are above the people and outside the State. I will never settle for anything less, now or in the future, because I do not confuse the role of "spokesman" of citizens (for whom I have entered politics) with that of bringing the "voice of the master"! [[Applause from Senators Campanella, Mussini and Orellana.]] My resignation is therefore a necessary and necessary act, not so much in order to reject the accusations of improbable betrayals - which I refer to the sender - but in order to denounce the new instruments through which public opinion is to be manipulated for intransparent returns. New instruments, alternative to the classic media, which had to be useful to achieve those freedoms that we have so much flaunted in recent years between banquets and among people. But, as McLuhan warned when he said that the mass media is the message, the medium is not "neutral," especially when used for the very control of the message. From the denial of democratic freedoms there can be no respect for them. I want to remain faithful to the respect for the dignity and freedom of the person, combined with what I think I have earned from the citizens: I no longer want to indulge those who deceive with false proclamations in order to gain the confidence of the people! In the end, each of us remains only with his conscience and I cannot and do not want to deceive her, all the more so today when it occurs on 17 February, the same day when - in 1600 - he was burned alive by the Inquisition, at the stake of Campo de' Fiori, Giordano Bruno, of which I remember a thought dear to me: At the free are of philosophy I sought shelter from the lucky waves, seeking the company of those who command to open the eyes, not to close them. For all these reasons, I put my resignation to the House. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senators Campanella, Mussini and Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u45	We shall now proceed to the vote on the resignation presented by Senator Molinari.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u48	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-MovX). Madam President, the right to freedom of thought and belief is a single right for everyone. The set of human rights set out in Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights constitutes and must constitute a single and indivisible right, which protects the dignity and freedom of all by defending the right to personal belief as it is, religious or non-religious. No one, anywhere, must be forced to embrace or abjure a creed. Freedom of thought implies the right to develop, maintain, examine and manifest our beliefs without coercion; to express views and visions of the world without fear of coercion. The pressure exerted in order to force someone to conform to state ideologies or religious doctrines is, however, a form of tyranny. There is no right to be offended by opinions contrary to your own, as there is no right not to listen to them. The best answer to a point of view with which we disagree is simply the reply. Violence and censorship are never legitimate answers. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni.]] The parties or movements that criminalize criticism of the policies that carry on, considering them a form of betrayal, sedition or threat to the image that they must give their voters are not champions of the public interest, but simply dark oppressors who exercise a form of tyranny in their own exclusive interest. Freedom of belief is absolute, but it is not absolute freedom to act on the basis of a belief. I am convinced that the principles of democracy, respect for human rights, secularity of the rule of law are the founding principles for the development of open societies, where freedom of thought and expression are protected and promoted. I have always opposed any form of restriction of everyone's right to think freely, with their own head and on their own account and to express their views without any fear. Dear Molinari, for existentialism, existence comes before essence and this is a way to put man at the centre of life, his freedom to choose for himself what meaning to give himself. Man therefore has the decisive possibility of giving meaning and value to existence, in absolute freedom with respect to any principle that he wants pre-constituted and in this resides the optimism of those who can decide their own future and make their own choices. Sartre will never accept the rigid dialectic that man wants at the mercy of historical mechanisms superior to him, that make it a completely passive object. He will therefore not accept what was necessary, scientific and Hegelian in Marxist doctrine. This, in fact, would have limited that sense of precariousness in which man still finds himself living, thrown without any purpose into the world. Each Member of Parliament represents the Nation and carries out his duties without a mandate: this is how Article 67 of the Constitution states, a provision which can only be read from a historical perspective, but which at the same time cannot be relegated to history as an obsolete and outdated concept. The guarantee of Article 67 must prevent pathological cases of conditioning of the mandate, such as the resignation in blank, the preventive commitment to accept any directive or instruction of the party and so on, prohibiting the introduction of institutions that allow the withdrawal of individual parliamentarians or the loss of the mandate following individual events. The transformist behaviors from which the provocations that would like the removal of the mandate are born are not legitimized by the Constitution at all. Article 67 is not a cover for political transformation. It is not the party or the movement that must represent the nation: it records and accepts the needs of that part of society of which it carries out the demands and in this sense its interest is always partisan, while that of the Parliamentary Assembly is the interest of the nation. Senator Molinari today reminded us of the anniversary of the death of Giordano Bruno on 17 February 1600, after long years in prison and terrible violations of his dignity. To the politics of the power of some Giordano Bruno opposed a society of free and equal where no one is excluded from the right to have rights. Giordano Bruno has taught us to rebel against those who want us flock, donkey, chick, that is, in a state of perennial infantilism in search of fathers, masters, father-parents, who promise heavens and miracles while meanwhile establishing "my" and "your" in the sectarian alliances in which they squirrel. We know, and also Senator Molinari knows well, that fighting against lies and hypocrisy is a difficult path, leading to the creation of many enemies, sometimes very violent in actions and statements, especially if these are former friends or companions. But anyone who wants a world of thinking and free people has no choice. Dear Senator Molinari, I am convinced that your resignation, like those of all of us, is not due to the desire to keep money or to get more money in a world where, with money, you try to buy everything: you can buy justice, you can buy power, even success, even some MP. One thing cannot be bought: knowledge. This requires an individual effort, which no one can do in our place. To know I have to work: if I don't struggle I won't know and I won't know anything. Well, it is this effort that gives us the right to speak. That is why I believe your request for discharge should be rejected. In this place you also need to hear your word, with the dignity of your knowledge. We have a duty to explain to young people that dignity is not a gift: dignity, like knowledge, is a tiring conquest. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u49	Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot on the resignation submitted by Senator Molinari. Senators for resignation will press the green button at the center of the voting position; opposing senators will press the red button on the right; senators who intend to abstain will press the white button on the left. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u50	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1345, 11, 1072, 1283, 1306 and 1514.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u53	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if I have not misunderstood the conciliations that have been made, I would like to ask Senator Caliendo to reword the amendment as follows: 452 - bis ", first paragraph, replace the term: "durable" by the words: "significant and measurable."
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u54	In the meantime, I would like the text of the reformulation to be put in writing and delivered. I would also like to ask Senator Caliendo if he intends to reword the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u55	Madam President, I accept the rewording because I believe that the rapporteurs are also of the same opinion. This means neither more nor less an overall assessment. Let us bear in mind that it was an amendment from Senator Casson that I made mine. The concept that is expressed in that reformulation is the same and, therefore, I welcome it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u56	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the rewording of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u57	To be clear, you, Senator Palma, simply ask, in paragraph 1 of Article 452-a, to replace the word "durable" with the words "significant and measurable." But the definition of the text remains that of the Commission. With this kind of wording, the rapporteur's opinion is positive.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u58	The government, on this amendment, is back in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u59	In any case, I would ask the presenter to put the rewording in writing, so that it can be distributed to the House, given that this is a delicate passage. I therefore suspend the sitting for a few minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 5.47 p.m. and resumed at 5.54 p.m.) The session is resumed. The reworded text of amendment 1.218 is being distributed, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u60	Senator Caliendo, we're asking you for a very simple little change. We agree to replace the word: "durable" with the words: "significant" and "measurable." We would, however, like the period to end there, deleting the following words: "of the pre-existing state". If you agree, the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u61	It is therefore a question of adding the words: "and suppressing the words "of the pre-existing state"" Do you accept this amendment proposal, Senator Caliendo? CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u62	The government had returned to the Assembly. It could also give a favourable opinion if the concept of "measurable" were removed and replaced by the words: "measurable" because it is not easy to have an instrument, sometimes, to measure...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u63	The Government should express its views on this text.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u64	FERRI, State Secretary for Justice. Then the government returns to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u65	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,218 (text 3), tabled by Senator Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,219.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u68	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, I do not think I am wrong if I take a fundamental view of the content of this amendment that we are going to vote on, on which there is an opinion contrary to the rapporteur and the Government's amendment 1,700 by the Government. Apart from a comma, the content is the same. So, I ask the rapporteurs and the government if I am wrong with this comment, that is, if the same is true. Furthermore, I would like to add that the Government's amendment goes in a totally opposite direction to the rapporteur's amendment 1.224, which is identical to amendment 1.225.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u69	Excuse me, Senator Arrigoni, but Amendment 1,219 is supplementary and the Government's amendment is a substitute. There is therefore a substantial difference. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). I note that there is no difference between the government's amendments 1,219 and 1,700. PRESIDENT. - The debate is For the purpose of reading the text, Amendment 1,219 says: • after the first paragraph insert • while at 1,700 of the Government is written: • replace the third paragraph by the following •. So, it's quite different.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u72	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, the amendment tabled by the Government is indeed intended to replace the amendment tabled in the Commission, at the first signature of Mr Marinello, which provided for equal penalty for the case of aggravating, while mine is additional. However, I am willing to withdraw it in view of the Government's amendment and the good report that is being produced.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u73	Amendment 1,219 is therefore withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,220, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,221, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,222.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u76	Orellana (Mist). Madam President, I would like to announce the withdrawal of my amendments, starting with this, except for the 1,304 that I would like to see voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u77	We take note of that. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,223 tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their opinion on the subsequent amendments, since we stopped at this point at the previous sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u78	I am in favour of the identical amendments 1,224 and 1,225. I am against sub-amendments 1,700/100 and 1,700/101, while the opinion is in favour of amendment 1,700.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u79	Senator Sollo, you have tabled an amendment to delete the third paragraph, but Amendment 1,700 is a replacement and, therefore, is precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u80	The government had to inform us of the withdrawal of certain amendments, as requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u81	If the rapporteur's amendment is adopted, as is expected, the amendment 1,700 is precluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u82	SOLLO, rapporteur. It is obvious that if the government did not withdraw amendment 1,700, the rapporteurs would withdraw amendment 1,224. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, we'll listen to the government. SOLLO, rapporteur. I am against Amendments Nos 1,226, 1,227, 1,228, 1,229, 1,230, 1,232 and 1,233. The opinion is in favour of amendment 1,231 (text 2) and is opposed to amendments 1,234, 1,235, 1,236 and 1,237. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 1,237 was tabled by the rapporteur, Mr Albertini. Mr Albertini, rapporteur. I'm taking him back. SOLLO, rapporteur. The opinion is opposed to amendments 1.238, 1.239, 1.240, 1.241, 1.242, 1.243, 1.244, 1.245, 1.246, 1.247, 1.248, 1.249, 1.250, 1.251, 1.252, 1.253 and 1.254. The opinion is in favour of amendment 1.255. I am against Amendments 1,256, 1,257, 1,258, 1,259, 1,260, 1,261 and 1,262. If the Government were not to withdraw amendment 1,701, we would vote in favour of this proposal, we would withdraw amendment 1,263 and we would call on it to withdraw amendment 1,264. If the Government withdraws this amendment on the two amendments 1,263 and 1,264, the opinion would be in favour. I think the concept is clear. The opinion was opposed to amendments 1,701/100 and 1,701/101. I have already voted in favour of amendment 1,701 by the Government. The opinion is opposed to amendments 1.265, 1.266, 1.28, 1.267, 1.268, 1.269, 1.270 and 1.271. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I say we stop at Amendment 1,271.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u83	I give my assent to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u84	There are those two amendments on which you have to clarify whether you refer to the amendments of the rapporteurs, which are substitutes, or whether you insist on the amendment of the Government, which is deleted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u85	FERRI, State Secretary for Justice. We insist on government amendments 1,700 and 1,701.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u86	We shall proceed with the votes. Amendment 1,224 by the rapporteurs is withdrawn because the Government insists on the replacement amendment 1,700. Senator Caliendo, do you insist on the vote on amendment 1,225, identical to that of the rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u87	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteurs. The Government's amendment 1,700 replaces the third paragraph. This paragraph, however, refers to a hazard hypothesis related to the assumption of the charge referred to in the second paragraph. Since these are goods subject to landscape, environmental, historical, artistic and architectural constraints, the hypothesis of danger for which the same penalty was provided was expected. Since the same penalty was impossible given that it was only an attempt, both the rapporteurs and myself proposed the abolition. To the Government I say that maintaining the third paragraph with the new wording no longer makes sense, because it no longer refers to the aggravated hypothesis, and perhaps it should refer to the first paragraph, and not be connected to the third paragraph. There is an incongruity that should be resolved. Otherwise, I shall vote in favour of the amendment, which is the same as the rapporteur's amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u88	Senator Caliendo, you insist on voting on your amendment? CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, I insist. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,225.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u91	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). This is a very sensitive point of the matter. I am well aware that the problem raised by the Government is an ongoing Community procedure, which is based on the fact that the danger would not find an adequate punishment of our legal system: hence the inclusion of a danger offence within an arsonous crime of damage. The government can do what it wants and Parliament, if it wants, can go after it, but the basic problem is that, in an arsonous crime of damage, the danger is sanctioned by the hypothesis of the attempt, which is nothing more than the endangerment of the interest protected by the main rule: it is neither more nor less than that. And yet, you want to put in this perilous felony. So, I'd like to ask a question about that. Let's assume that the judge is charging me with a perilous felony within a crime of harm. I can introduce myself to the judge, saying that the crime that is challenging me is not correct, because I wanted to put in place a crime of damage, but I did not succeed and, therefore, I confess the attempt of the crime of damage, and so I get a decrease of up to two thirds, compared to that of a third in the crime imagined by the government. I understand all European sensibilities, but can we really turn our criminal system upside down for a whim of Europe, when it is basically satisfied with the general hypothesis of the attempt? And again: you put the danger in two crime events, but - as I told you last time - did you not forget to put the danger even in the manslaughter crime? Anyway, Madam President and Senators, I understand that the logic of numbers makes certain people imagine that the number corresponds to the monopoly of truth. However, I think I have said something sensible to many of my colleagues who are dealing with the law. I would like to avoid the inclusion in such a delicate measure of a wrong rule, which does not serve and cracks the system. These are, therefore, the reasons why the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u94	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, I will not go into the matter, as Senator Palma, President of the Justice Commission, has done, whose competence is undoubtedly beyond doubt. But I turn to the government. Undersecretary Ferri, it seems to me that, by a statement by the two rapporteurs - Senator Sollo in particular, but the other rapporteur, Senator Albertini, confirmed by nominating - in this House the consensus was broadly unanimous, both of the majority and of a large part of the opposition, on the amendments proposed by the rapporteurs. I therefore believe that common sense means that if there is this almost unanimity, the Government must listen to what is said to it and not to the minority, which adapts and converges on what the rapporteur, Mr Sollo, said (and I see, however, that the rapporteur, Mr Albertini, also confirms). The fact that authoritative representatives of the opposition, such as the Senators Caliendo, Cardiello, Falanga and Malan, have tabled an amendment equal to that of the rapporteurs, demonstrates the agreement of the entire Assembly, or almost, and this is evident even after listening to those who have spoken so far. Our Group therefore calls on the Secretary-General to review his position, to withdraw the Government's amendment and to give the green light to that of the rapporteurs and senators of opposition, of Forza Italia, and supported by the Group of the Great Self-Government and Freedom, or at least to return to the Assembly. I believe that, in doing so, the work is parliamentary and is not, therefore, the Government that intervenes and imposes itself. Senators Palma and Caliendo, who of course are masters in the declaratory of the specific subject, have in particular entered into this issue, with regard to which, among other things, there is a punctual request from Europe. The invitation is therefore to the Government to withdraw its amendment and to give a favourable opinion - or to the House - on the amendment of the rapporteurs and a minority of the Forza Italia Group - The People of Liberty XVII Legislature. If Senator Caliendo allows me, I would like to subscribe, on behalf of my Group too, to Amendment 1,225.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u97	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, the reference to the crime of danger and harm surely responds to a request from Europe, in accordance with Community directives. However, Article 56 of the Criminal Code, which regulates the attempted crime, cannot, in my humble opinion, refer to the specific environmental crime. We are talking about attempted crime when appropriate acts are taken, directed in an unmistakable way to commit a crime and, therefore, we are talking about an absolutely intentional action. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in Article 434 of the Criminal Code, which refers to the so-called disaster, we have exactly the definition of danger and damage. In fact, the article reads: "Everyone, outside the cases provided for in the preceding articles, commits a fact intended to cause the collapse of a building or part of it or another disaster, is punished, if from the fact comes danger to public safety, with the imprisonment from one to five years. The sentence is of imprisonment from three to twelve years if the collapse or disaster occurs. Therefore, if we refer to an article in the penal code to which the magistrates have referred in the course of all these years when there has been a legislative vacuum in relation to the case of environmental crime, we can only repeat this knowledge of danger and damage. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u100	SOLLO, rapporteur. Madam President, after having also spoken to Mr Ferri for a moment, we propose a provision for the amendments relating to the third paragraph of paragraph 1, paragraph 1, Art. We are therefore talking about Amendments Nos 1,225, 1,700/100, 1,700/101, 1,700 and 1,226. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In fact, Amendment 1,226 is an additional amendment, so we can vote on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u103	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, I asked for amendment 1,219 to be withdrawn because there was a favourable opinion on an amendment which was essentially identical to mine. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's retired by now, Senator. NUGNES (M5S). All right, but I withdrew it with a view to the adoption of the amendment that would have merged it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u104	At this point, however, we cannot go back: the amendment has already been withdrawn and in the voting order it is exceeded. SANTANGELO (M5S). I'll do it myself, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are at a later stage in the debate, because amendment 1,219 concerned the first paragraph of Article 452-a, and what we are discussing is paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u106	Senator Santangelo, I give you the floor, but we can't go back.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u107	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I will be very quick. I would just like to ask that the 5 Star Movement also be given the opportunity to stand still with regard to certain amendments, as the rapporteur has just done. Since we have only dealt with two or three amendments after Mr Nugnes' amendment 1,219, I would ask you, if possible, to be able to accept Amendment 1,219, in view of the problems that are now being addressed in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u108	Excuse me, Senator: it is not a question of disregarding this requirement, but we are considering amendments to the third paragraph of Article 452-a, so we have already passed the vote in the first paragraph. I believe that, in the course of the debate with the rapporteurs, the spirit of the amendment can be taken into account. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,226.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u111	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, I would like to appeal to this amendment and ask why it is not possible to provide for an additional burden on those who pollute the aquifers. We are water and water is life. I do not understand why we cannot make a difference between the pollution of a puddle and that of an aquifer. I therefore ask, please, if you can.. (The rapporteurs are engaged in a conversation). They won't even listen to me. Fantastic! [[Applause from Senators Bencini and Candiani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u112	Speakers, please listen to Senator Bignami.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u113	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). I'm talking about life, about water. If it were possible, then, with amendment 1,226 I would like to add an aggravating factor where an aquifer should be polluted, because between a puddle and an aquifer I would say that there is a big difference, all the more so if thousands of people and families access this aquifer.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u114	Will the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government change their opinion? SOLLO, rapporteur. No, Madam President. FERRI, State Secretary for Justice. No, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,226, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,227.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u117	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, there is a problem here which will also concern the subsequent amendment 1,231 (text 2) at the first signature of Senator Casson, to which the rapporteur, Mr Sollo, has expressed a favourable opinion. What is it? It is a simple, serious or serious injury or death that results, as an unwanted effect, from the crime of environmental pollution or environmental disaster. This provision already exists in our code and is enshrined in Article 586 of the penal code, which specifically provides that, in the event of death or injury as an unwanted consequence, there is a certain type of penalty. Both Senator Di Biagio in this amendment and Senator Casson in the next amendment build the case in a similar way and then identify penalties. 18.24 (Follow PALMA). If I may, then, I would like to make a brief argument with the House: we are in the presence, like it or not, of manslaughter. In Senator Di Biagio's amendment 1,227 a manslaughter of more than 20 days, but not a serious injury, is punished with the sentence from 6 to 18 years. I would like to point out to the presenter Di Biagio that voluntary injury, and therefore not manslaughter, where the psychological attitude is completely different, involves a sentence from 3 months to 3 years. And what is the reasonableness for which a manslaughter offence should be punished with such a disproportionately higher penalty than the penalty for voluntary injury? But I say more, if we want to say it all: but how can we imagine that a manslaughter injury could have a greater penalty than attempted murder, which is a malicious offense? And the same criticisms, which move to amendment 1,227, in terms that are clearly reduced, can be made to Senator Casson's amendment 1,231 (text 2) which, in fact, provides for a penalty of 2 years and 6 months to 7 years for simple injury, far greater than the penalty of 3 months to 3 years for voluntary injury. And so it goes in a row. I realize that we are in the presence of serious crimes, the seriousness of which is repeated by the main crime. But you can't turn the system upside down like this. The Constitutional Court has always said that there is discretion on the part of the legislator, provided, however, that this discretion is exercised in accordance with the principle of reasonableness. What is the reasonableness for which a voluntary injury, normally punished with a sentence of three months to three years, should be punished with a sentence of six to eighteen years, as in Senator Di Biagio's amendment 1,227, or from two years and six months to seven years, as in amendment 1,231 (text 2) with Senator Casson as the first signatory? To silence, of course, serious injuries and serious injuries, and also death. Again, in the case of injuries to more people, that is to say the death of more people, you get to thirty years of imprisonment for manslaughter. Gentlemen, 30 years of imprisonment in our code is only for the murder aggravated by certain circumstances! And I think murder is probably, except for the massacre and some other crime, the most serious crime in our code. In this punitive fury, unleash yourselves, but respecting the system and respecting the criterion of reasonableness, if you do not want these rules to be simply a propaganda commercial that will inevitably be rejected by the Constitutional Court. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Montevecchi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u120	CASSON (PD). Mr President, in this legal confusion we need to clarify certain terms of the matter. First of all, the basic crime from which we start is absolutely not a manslaughter: we talk about voluntary behaviour and the fact, so much so that this environmental pollution is punished with a penalty of some importance, which is a penalty that goes from two to six years who are imprisoned. I do not discuss the choice of Mr Di Biagio, to indicate in his amendment the penalties so high, that could create problems of constitutional legitimacy, as well as I do not discuss the similar amendment of Senator Caliendo, not mentioned by President Palma, who refers to exaggerated penalties, in my view, with respect to the approach of amendment 1,231 (text 2), on which the rapporteur and the Government gave a favourable opinion. I simply recall that this is an arsonous behavior, for which, instead of having a sentence of two to six years, it is spoken of two years and six months, therefore with a slight increase, as regards illness or personal injury; as well as a slightly greater increase of penalty there is for the case of serious injury, and still a slightly higher penalty is expected for the serious injury, even more so in the case of death. It is absolutely not a set of rules outside our criminal law, so much so - I remind myself, as is said in the courtrooms - that there is already article 437 of the penal code that speaks of arson within certain working environments for omission of precautionary measures, with a sentence that reaches five years; in case there are deaths and injuries, just because of the gravity of the fact, which affects the life and integrity of people, the sentence rises to ten years of imprisonment. In this case, repeatedly, the Constitutional Court has considered the edittal penalty provided for by the penal code to be adequate. Therefore, I believe that the rewording of the text of my amendment, which was made, on indication and also in agreement with the rapporteur and with the Government, is the most appropriate one to sanction, at the beginning, arson behaviour, and also as a consequence of behaviour not wanted by the deed (otherwise there would be another arson), the possibility of an increase in penalty in the event of death. There have been a number of cases of this kind in Italy, where injury and death are committed to arson and I believe that respect for injury and death should also be maintained in this House, in accordance with the principles of proportionality of the penalty also indicated by our Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u123	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, my point is obviously a high-pitched one, and I would also ask Senator Di Biagio to withdraw, if necessary, his amendment 1.227, which actually contains exaggerations. What, as a doctor, I cannot understand, and that I would like the rapporteur, the government and the presenter and Senator Casson to explain to me, is what is meant by the hypothesis that an illness lasts no more than twenty days. In this case the disease is a condition of alteration of the psychophysical balance that heals in twenty days, but if the disease lasts twenty-one days a sentence is applied from seven years. Senator Casson should explain it not to me, but to the Italian people. We are saying that if a person heals in twenty-one days, a seven-year sentence applies; and then they tell you that you are executed. But not only are you justiceists, but with this revival you are not doing the good of Italy. If a person heals in twenty days, nothing is done, but if he recovers in twenty-one days he almost gives a life sentence to the person responsible. But let's settle down, it's not like going home who's more executed gets a prize or a medal. [[Applause from Senator Marin]] We are legalizing for our country, we must educate those who are wrong but we cannot educate them to beat like they did in communist regimes: we must educate them with democracy to recover them. Instead, we put those who did something stupid, those who committed a crime that caused a disease that resulted in 21 days of prognosis. Even a first aid doctor will tell you that between twenty and twenty-one days, from a purely clinical point of view, the difference is very little, but from the judicial point of view the difference is between zero and seven years in prison. Maybe go back to the family and think at home. [[Applause from Senator Marin]] It is only by doing so that the people will be happy: the people are tired of this summary justiceism; what they want are slender, simple laws that can be applied with certainty. Above all, there is no need for them to give themselves, to someone who does something that is, however, to be condemned, because he has brought a injury, which heals anyway, seven years in prison: that person must be educated, he must take it by the ears, pat her on the shoulders and tell her that he does not have to do it anymore.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u124	The Presidency was informed of the withdrawal of amendment 1.227, tabled by Senator Di Biagio.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u125	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,228.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u128	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we shall be voting in favour of amendment 1,228, which was first signed by Senator Caliendo, which, if approved, would bring this whole debate to the fore. I should like to make a brief comment on this. Today I found myself, for a replacement, in the Justice Commission; I have followed in recent days and I am following this law on environmental crimes these days and I must associate myself with the words of President Palma, who denounces the danger of a collective hysteria to the increase of penalties outside a systematic framework. I would like President Palma, who certainly has the possibility, to give to all colleagues the text of Cesare Beccaria "Dei delitti e delle peni" ("Dei delitti e delle peni") from which we derive the fundamental principles of our criminal law and above all the balance between crime and punishment and the re-educational function of the same penalty in the sphere of the interest of society. We are losing this sense because we have triggered a virus of justice that goes beyond these balances and makes every argument as if we were treating the worst behavior of every citizen and we are pointing it to public opinion as a behavior that will give the citizen to the ultimate pillage in the coming days of his life. I would really like to see this reflected in a general sense, beyond the particular rules that we are examining. A short while ago President Palma denounced the inclusion of a new judicial institution - that of the danger - which is truly a legal institution that, for those who are my poor knowledge, lends itself to interpretations the most aberrant from the point of view of the consequences of the behavior of a citizen that can also be justified with distraction and, above all, with the minimality of the consequences of his behavior. I appeal to the rapporteurs and, above all, to Mr Albertini, whose legal balance I know and to the Group to which he belongs, whose origin and political and ideological matrix I know. We cannot endorse this kind of initiatives and this type of insertions in our order, which prescind from an overall systematicity of a balance of crimes and penalties, which really is worth re-reading on the texts of Caesar Beccaria. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u131	NUGNES (M5S). We shall vote against this deletion of the fourth paragraph of Article 4 (1). 452-a., because we believe that the gradualness of the penalty is a very important thing and that it must be taken into absolute consideration. I would like above all to reason on a fact, even with the lack of instruments that compare me with a former modest magistrate (as he claims), while I have been chewing these subjects for just two years. Yet, reporting the words of Professor Allegri, who collaborates with the attorney of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, I am pleased to recall that this is an absolutely unique crime; it is unique already in the fact that the crime scene lacks of criminal and crime. Very often they miss each other, because they are distant in time and place. Therefore, the arsonous case is already extremely far from the crime of both pollution and disaster, as these are always consequences and not the specific intention of the deed. This is a consequence of gross negligence. So, I think that environmental crime is almost always in a manslaughter case. We must pay particular attention to the gradual nature of the sentence and realize that unfortunately - it is certainly difficult to say in this House - the murder of a single person compared to the death of an entire territory, its economy and, for diseases, of entire populations, is - yes - more serious than a single murder. I regret to say this, because I understand that there is still a lack of culture in this House to address this very delicate sector, of which, instead, those who live on compromised territories (which are not only Campania) have a clear perception. But we are not executed, absolutely. In fact, we believe that only ban is the real penalty: to put these people in a position not to harm. If you do not take a clear and clear ethical position and a serious complaint against these particular crimes, we will never really be able to express the absolute regret of society towards these subjects. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u132	Senator Caliendo, Senator D'Ali has already spoken in an explanation of vote, so his Group has already spoken on Amendment 1,228. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,228, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,229.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u135	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I asked to speak on the previous amendment in order to explain its meaning. The deletion of the fourth paragraph meant applying the general rule of the penal code. Article 586 of the Penal Code is titled "Death or injury as a consequence of another crime" and provides for a general rule that applies to any crime. The rule says: When a fact foresaw as a malicious offence results, as an unintended consequence of the perpetrator, the death or injury of a person, the provisions of Article 83 shall apply, but the penalties laid down in Articles 589 (i.e. manslaughter) and 590 (i.e. manslaughter) shall be increased. This deletion does not mean that there would no longer be a punishment or the graduality of sanctions, because Article 586 of the Criminal Code was applied, which provides for an increase in the penalties provided for in Articles 589 and 590. As for the two subsequent amendments, 1.229 and 1.230, I have to say that the order in which they were put back in the file is wrong in my opinion and Amendment 1,230 should be voted first. Amendment 1,230 does not just repeat what the penal code already says, because it does not speak of a generic increase in penalties, but of increased penalties up to a third, so it specifies how much all the penalties concerning injuries or death have increased. If this amendment, which provides for an increase in penalties to a third, were not adopted by this House, there would be amendment 1,229, which provides for an increase in penalties to up to half. In this way we would finally have a clear rule that refers to a general rule of the penal code, which already exists, and it establishes not a general increase in punishment but up to a third or up to half. I believe that this is the most correct solution from the point of view of legislative technique rather than going to rewrite the penal code for the same cases provided for in Articles 589 and 590. That is why, Mr President, I would ask you to put Amendment 1,230 to the vote first and then Amendment 1,229, because the increase in penalties up to a third is less than the increase in penalties up to half.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u136	The provision of the amendments has its own logic. First we vote on a larger increase and then, if the amendment is not adopted, there is an alternative option. There was no grievous choice for him in the evaluation. Everything is questionable, but I defend the logic with which... CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). But it's a judicial choice. Usually for the penis you proceed gradually upwards. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]] Let's start with the main hypothesis and then move on to the subordinate one.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u138	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u139	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am not going to vote on this amendment by Senator Caliendo, because I believe that both the text of the Government and that of this amendment that is excessively unbalanced from the point of view of sanctions. If we were to approve this amendment as a group, I could not, of course, fail to express a positive opinion on the whole article; that is, I should vote in favour. So I will not be taking part in this vote. I take advantage of my dissenting explanation of vote to reaffirm the principles that I was allowed to express earlier. We're going beyond the limits of the balance between crime and punishment. I would ask Members to give serious consideration to this matter, not only because of this measure, but also because of so many other measures which are on the way and which will come to this House as soon as possible. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u140	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,229, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,230.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u143	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking to further comfort, if there is ever any need, how brilliantly Senator Palma and then Senator Caliendo have explained first. Senator Casson made a statement, qualifying the crime within the family of arson crimes. It seems to me that this conclusion cannot be shared, Senator Casson, because, as has already been mentioned, the pattern of the mixed crime (guilty and arson) is already provided by our code in article 586, already cited by Senator Caliendo. I make a very simple example, probably school. The drug dealer who causes, after selling a dose, the death of the person who hired her responds to the arson for the drug and of the crime of death. Here, this is the classic example of the scheme that provides together, in the context of a crime, the guilt and of course the dole. The amendments, including the one that has just been rejected by this House, are part of this speech. Correctly Senator Caliendo, the first signatory, and then I too, within the framework of this scheme drawn up by our penal code, have formulated these two amendments. The first increases the penalty by half; what we are now voting on increases the penalty by a third. If you read Article 586, you will see that in the final part reference is made to other rules that provide to what extent the penalty is increased, when the commission of that arson crime results an event that is undoubtedly manslaughter. In fact, we read: "but the penalties set out in Articles 589 and 590 have increased", then, in brackets, a series of articles are indicated, which provide how the increase should be applied. Senator Caliendo and I, within the framework of this general scheme, have proposed an increase in the penalty, when, in the case of arson, a manslaughter, such as death, as we have said in this case. It seems to me that the reasoning is clear. Going on a different warning, surely you will incur a hypothesis of unconstitutionality of this law. Senator Palma said it very well: we come to condemn for a manslaughter and arson, then mixed, applying the penalty provided for the voluntary murder. I believe that we should not be more disturbed by the Constitutional Court, not least because we are doing enough of bad figures, from a regulatory point of view. We do not disturb the Court even for a general principle that is peaceful, affirmed and consolidated, and that is part of the scheme of our penal code. Therefore, I also call on the Government, which is distracted, to reflect on this point, in order to avoid going before the Constitutional Court because we are already going, for the stubbornness of the Government, also for the way in which the members of the councils of the orders are elected. For everything we go before the Constitutional Court. All this because you do not want to reason, agree, and make norms, as Senator Barani said, simple, stylized, clear and precise. With this amendment, we have made a contribution of slimness and clarification. Of course, the rule of numbers is on your side, but we do our duty. Then, if the Government makes it a matter of principle, of point, of writing, without logic and reasonableness, we, unfortunately, can do nothing but silence; which I will do from this moment on for the subsequent amendments that will be put to the vote, to the satisfaction of Senator Viceconte.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u144	Colleagues, our work is being followed by the students and the rector of the high school "Convitto bishop Vinzenum" Di Bressanone, to whom I address the greeting of the Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u147	CASSON (PD). Mr President, the explanation of vote in advance of Amendment 1,231 (text 2) is also necessary in my speech because I think it is necessary to reassure and clarify the terms of the matter. This House has already approved the crime of environmental pollution, which is an arson for which the sentence of imprisonment from two to six years is provided, plus the fine. Now, as has already happened and normally happens within our criminal law, for example for the kidnapping of a person and in other cases, if from this arson behavior results a injury or the death of a person, you can predict an assault; which has been done in this case to a small extent (from six months to a year). No one envisages for the case cited by Senator Barani seven years of imprisonment, because the basic penalty is that of two to six years for environmental pollution. In these cases of injury and death there is a slight increase in punishment; it has nothing to do with the call to Caesar Beccaria or to judicialism: ordinary legislative behavior is used for our system. I would add, among other things, that, in addition to the amendment already withdrawn, as well as that of Senator Caliendo, if we want to talk about justiceism, we should address this accusation to Senator Caliendo, because the increase in punishment that we foresee is proportionate and appropriate to this case. I recall that precisely this case (Article 586 of the Criminal Code) refers to a malicious behavior followed by a death or injury. Why, then, in addition to the clarification of the terms of the matter as regards punishment, Government, rapporteurs and of course I have accepted a text 2 of amendment 1,231? Because in the final part of our amendment it is stated that if there are more deaths, more sick people, different penalties are expected. If from a more or less serious or particularly serious environmental pollution results a disease for a person there is a slight increase in penalty; if the fact is serious the increase in penalty will be slightly higher, but if there are so many deaths and injuries of more people, the increased penalty is adjusted according to the indicated manner. Therefore, this provision is part of the system; it is part of the Constitutional Court's predictions, as already happened in Article 437; so from this point of view, I believe that we can reject these amendments that are being discussed, for which we will vote against, and as a Democratic Party we will support the opinion expressed by rapporteurs and the representative of the Government on amendment 1,231 (text 2) which provides for a penalty proportional to the contested fact.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u148	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,230, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,232.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u151	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to say that I voted against Amendment 1,232, which deals with a very important subject, namely limitation in the case of environmental offences that cause long-term latency diseases. This is a matter that has been discussed recently following the decision on asbestos, but the problem was that the prosecutor chose not manslaughter as a crime, because unfortunately there were many people who died, but another crime that had a shorter time of limitation and therefore this procedure was prescribed with the understandable disconcertedness of many. However, it is not possible to enact a law which will also meet the mistakes made by those who conduct the trial. Specifically, however, I would like to point out that if there is a disease or a death caused by an incident of pollution, the disease is a single episode and even pollution can be a unique fact, but obviously from a single episode can derive consequences for several people. Therefore, if a person gets sick at a certain time, the punishableness with regard to that disease, the fault underlying the determination of that disease, starts from the onset of that disease; however, if another person gets sick for the same fact years later, obviously the prescription is not calculated from the disease suffered by the first subject. Therefore, Amendment 1,232, which would like to tackle this problem, is not really effective and is not even necessary, because at the time when an illness arises, for that episode, which is probably a crime, we start to calculate the prescription; if there is another following case, the prescription will be calculated from that period. If anything, one might have thought of something that actually took into account the long period of latency, but in that case if anything it would come (but, as I seem to have explained, there is no need) to another problem, that is to say a long-term pollution that gives rise in a long period to a series of diseases. As far as the problem of the onset of the disease is concerned, we know that mesothelioma (this is the disease mentioned in reference to the process of asbestos) has a long period of latency, then if anything it could be considered, but the long period of pollution cannot be dealt with in this way. It is for these reasons that we vote against, even if we are aware of the importance of the issue and the concrete episodes that have compromised health and have - alas - caused numerous deaths, among other things in my region.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u154	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-MovX). Mr President, the amendment concerns prescription, but the main problem is all cancer diseases, not just mesothelioma. I do not know much about the legal aspect, but I know enough about medicine and clearly if there is a company that produces serious pollution and then, as with many oncology diseases, the peak of the pathology happens fifteen or twenty years later, at that point we will also have to show that this peak of the pathology has been linked to that type of pollution and not to others. It is clear that there are latency times and to decide whether that company has committed very serious environmental and ecological damage with a substance that is considered by all to be polluting. It is clear that in a first phase we can make a trial that concerns the damage and the crime of pollution and not that concerning the pathology and, therefore, the manslaughter or as they want to define it. So fundamental is the fact that the issue of limitation does not end at the time of the conclusion of the activity of that company. The company closes; at that point it no longer pollutes and from that moment on part the mechanism of the prescription. Fifteen years later we have patients, but it's not just for mesothelioma. There are a lot of lymphomas and malformations that happen in children. We invest money to put in place a register of childhood cancers in Taranto that we know for three years will not give us any suitable answer - these children will get sick perhaps in fifteen to twenty years, if they suffer pollution now - and then we do not worry instead of saving the health of those who have come in contact definitely with a serious and serious pollutant factor, that we know to be considered at least as a carcinogenic factor, and let the prescription end before the arrival of the disease. I think this is totally absurd. If it is not possible from a legal point of view to start the prescription from the beginning of the disease because we do not know when it will start, just double or triple the terms of the prescription: for this type of crime instead of 20 years we put them at forty and so we are calm. [[Applause from the Misto-ILC Group and the Senators Bencini, Bignami, Orellana and Molinari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u157	CASSON (PD). Mr President, in addition to the explanation of vote, I would like to make an interim proposal. The theme is extremely delicate because the reference made by Senator Maurizio Romani to the asbestos-Eternit affair of Casale Monferrato is in fact still in the cool memory of all. I would like to say that I did not agree with the judgment of the Supreme Court of the time which made a legal choice; between different options it could very well confirm the two previous sentences of condemnation. However, here we are dealing with a different issue: it is true that these are diseases which, in the case of asbestos, but not only (I also remember the case of vinyl chloride monomer (CVM) and liver angiosarcoma), have long periods of latency that reach even thirty-forty years, but I believe that the problem of this amendment is in its legal approach. I also introduced it to Senator Maurizio Romani. I don't know if it's possible to set aside and think about it to write it better. Here is the disease that refers to a certain period of application of the prescription and in this case the prescription starts from the moment it is diagnosed. When it comes to diseases with long periods of latency, the clear reference in this case to those caused by asbestos which are characterized by absolute mortality. In that case, the prescription begins at the time of death, not at the time when the disease is discovered, so the legal, substantive and procedural approach changes. In the final part of this amendment, reference is made to the actual cessation of the danger to public health, which is yet another crime which falls under another title of the penal code in the broad sense, namely the prediction of disaster. Our penal code provides for different dates for injuries, deaths and permanent offences, as stated in Article 158 of the penal code, but perhaps in this amendment the various periods should be diversified or better specified the intention that is to be achieved by this proposal. I repeat, I agree with the amendment in its content, but, as it is written, I believe that it cannot be voted on. I do not know whether the rapporteurs and the government believe that they can put it aside to evaluate it, because technically there are many unsurpassed problems in this formulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u160	NUGNES (M5S). I am of the same opinion as Mr Casson, and I am therefore in favour of a provision and a rewriting of amendment 1,232, because, if not in this specific case, we should still begin to assess the fact, as he said, that the specific nature of environmental crimes cannot be neglected, that when they are not permanent crimes, they are instant crimes, which have continued over time. I want to bring back the words of Maria Cristina Ribera, to the Pellini trial, which said: If the environmental disaster is in progress, the limitation period may not be extended. So, if the effects of the act are still ongoing, how can I evaluate a prescription for those effects? Yet, as General Costa tells us, when they go to dig the graves, very often - indeed, in all cases - those crimes are already prescribed, before they begin to dig. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u161	I would ask the rapporteurs whether they intend to comment on the proposed provision. Mr Albertini, rapporteur. I call for the withdrawal of the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So the rapporteurs are against the provision.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u164	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, you cannot give the rapporteur the floor for the opinion on the provision: you may not have heard me, but I had already asked to speak on the proposal for a provision made by Senator Casson. This proposal raises a question that everyone, unless we are hypocrites, recognizes as very serious, true and well-founded that it needs to be adjusted and adjusted from a technical point of view. I would like to point out to the rapporteurs something that we have dealt with and that we will be dealing with shortly when we talk about the environmental disaster. I would therefore ask the rapporteurs, including the amendment before us, to take into account one of the proposals that I have put forward in the Commission, with a view to adding a paragraph on environmental disaster, which specifies that the crime remains as long as the harmful effects of the conduct remain. That is my suggestion: in this way we could resolve the very serious issues posed by the first-signed amendment by Maurizio Romani. Therefore, I too would like to put aside Amendment 1,232.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u167	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, regardless of what will be the decisions on the provision, I would like to invite Senator Casson and the other senators who have spoken to read precisely the text of this amendment, which says: In the cases referred to in the previous paragraph - i.e. injury and death, because we are talking about this - I would add that if one dies immediately it is a little more serious - the term of the prescription starts from the actual cessation of the danger to public health. Excuse me: if you consider injury or manslaughter as a crime, as a consequence of a malicious offense, do you explain to me how you can enforce the prescription for these criminal offences from the cessation of the state of danger, which is linked instead to the main crime? So put aside what you want, reflect and reason, but in the end you will find yourself faced with a legal dystonia that is difficult to overcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u170	FERRI, State Secretary for Justice. Mr President, I understand the arguments put forward by Senator Romani and by those who have spoken, but we must remain in the text of the amendment and therefore, as a Government, I must take up and underline the legal arguments put forward by President Palma. Among other things, this amendment also seeks to revise the general rules on the prescription system. This is the reason why the Government has expressed an opinion against it. In fact, an autonomous and different bill is required on the general rules of the prescription, because we cannot introduce the modification of an institution such as that of the prescription, changing the criteria, into a bill on crimes against the environment. There are also problems with the wording of the amendment. Therefore, for an act of courtesy, there is no question for the Government to put aside the amendment, but there are these problems that I want to point out right now, so as not to deceive the fact that after a possible provision you can then share the merit of the proposal. Let us not forget, then, that we have talked so far about penalties and that it has rightly been envisaged to tighten the penalties for such serious crimes, so that also the prescribed terms have increased, remaining the general criteria, with the ordinary term that coincides with the maximum of edittal penalty of the norm that we go to introduce, increased by a quarter, as happens for all criminal cases. For a number of reasons, therefore, I believe that the amendment can be voted on; in any case, the Government's opinion on it remains contrary.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u172	Senator Puglia, what are you going to intervene on, since Senator Nugnes has already spoken? PUGLIA (M5S). Thank you, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, but what are you gonna do about it? PUGLIA (M5S). Excuse me, ma'am, but every time... Senator Nugnes has already intervened. PUGLIA (M5S). If my colleague Maurizio Romani allows me, I would like to subscribe to the amendment because I believe that the problem of limitation is fundamental in these cases. As Mrs Nugnes said earlier, very often it happens that while...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u173	Well, Senator Puglia, you have announced that you want to sign the amendment: the explanation of vote has already been made by Senator Nugnes. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,232 tabled by Senator Romani Maurizio and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We acknowledge that Senator Zanda has voted against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u174	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u176	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, just to register my vote in favour, which I have not been able to express. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,233.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u177	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u179	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura Group will not vote for this amendment, because, although it is understandable that there are continuous references to specific facts, it must be borne in mind that in a regulatory context the reference to the specific fact risks decriminalizing facts not mentioned. It is clear, therefore, that there is a problem of pollution also in relation to the emission into the environment of non-ionising radiation, but this case is already actionable without the need for a specific requirement which - I repeat - could weaken other cases of crime where not mentioned. This strengthens me in the idea that, unfortunately, we are following - also in the debate on the previous amendment, which certainly also had an important social significance - more emotion and episodicity than systematic drafting of a complex legislation such as that of environmental crimes, crimes certainly current and not yet adequately intercepted by the previous legislation and, above all, with the approach of the codes of 1942. However, precisely for this reason, because it is an important graft of a new and more complex variety of crimes, there is a need for reflection, systematicity and consistency with the general system of crimes and penalties. That is why we will not be voting in favour of this amendment and I will once again appeal to the rapporteurs and the Government to make this subject the subject of careful consideration which I believe cannot be closed down in the short term on a few amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u180	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,233, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,231 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u181	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u183	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, of course I intend to declare the vote in favour of this amendment, on which, in the course of the debate on the two or three previous amendments, I have heard things, in my opinion, absolutely inappropriate for which we are accused of wanting to insert here - I do not want President Palma, if I remember his jokes - the prediction of life imprisonment in order to catch a daisy. I would like to explain that in amendment 1,231 (text 2) there is absolute graduality and proportionality commensurate with the title contained in the amendment as reworded. It is absolutely clear and also has its own specificity, treating death or injury as a consequence of the crime of environmental pollution that is exactly a malicious crime: we are not, therefore, in the case of manslaughter. I understand that the debate of these hours on individual amendments has been marked by the idea that, on the one hand, there are those who want justice and, on the other hand, those who want to maintain the rules you guarantee. However, I would like to point out very politely that these rules have been expected for 20 years. It has been expected for twenty years that environmental crimes will finally be included in our penal code and in the meantime, taking advantage of the fact that these crimes were considered criminal offences, we have had the disasters that have occurred and in this country it has not only been convenient to pollute, since it was paid more for a ban on parking or for an excess of speed than to pass through Campania or other lands, but it has also given organized crime the opportunity to offer turnkey services in hand - because this has done - to those who so much risked nothing. This is to say that there is a specificity in environmental crimes and also their impact and whenever we address this issue we should remember that. I therefore believe that Amendment 1,231 (text 2) is very balanced, proportionate and proportionate to the type of crime.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u186	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to clarify: since Article 452-a currently contains, in the fourth paragraph, penalties relating to personal injury and death, I wonder whether Senator Casson's amendment 1,231 (text 2) as formulated in his text is supplementary or replacement of the fourth paragraph, since it deals with the same cases but with increased penalties. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The text is supplementary.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u187	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u189	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Senator Arrigoni's remark is absolutely acceptable: there is a repetition between the last paragraph of Article 452-a and the rewording of amendment 1,231 (text 2), of which perhaps a rewording would be necessary. I believe I am interpreting the thought of Senator Lumia, certainly that of Senator Sposetti and many other senators, in asking the Presidency, as it were, for the next month of all the measures concerning justice, because we are objectively abusing the patience of our fellow senators. Just as Senator Nugnes will apologize to Professor Allegri, known for being a consultant to the Public Prosecutor's Office of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, if sometimes, always with great modesty, I depart from the technical significance of his advice. You see, Mr President, the subject we are debating is no small matter. And Senator Casson will excuse me if I allow myself to contradict him on some of his passages. What is the point, Senator Casson, of quoting Article 630 of the Penal Code, second paragraph, with reference to the unwanted death in relation to the kidnapping of a person, when the 30-year sentence is linked to the kidnapping of a person who is characterized by the unwanted death? It is a completely different situation: there it is placed within the case of kidnapping, while here it stands as an element outside. Your reasoning is very simple and, in some ways, also acceptable. Since the pre-conditioned crime, environmental damage, is particularly serious and obviously has a popularity on the health of the people, we not only punish the pre-conditioned crime, but we punish with a certain virulence the consequences (injury or death) which in man's hand derive from the arsonous crime base. But would this operation not have been much simpler through a more serious sanction than the crime of environmental pollution and environmental disaster? You punish these two cases of crime, which you rightly consider to be particularly serious, with a sentence of two to six years. Then, incredibly, due to the manslaughter of this crime, you began to imagine penalties far greater than that of the basic crime! Senator Casson, for so many years you have performed authoritatively as a Public Prosecutor. Is it true or not that Article 73 (1) of the Single Text on Drugs provides for a sentence of up to 20 years for those who sell significant amounts of drugs? A penalty, that is, far greater than the one for the crimes we are discussing: environmental pollution from two to six years, compared to - if I remember correctly - a penalty from four years and six months to 20 years. However, incredibly, for that type of crime, if it were to achieve death, Article 586 of the penal code would apply (for which death would be punished with a penalty of one to five years), while here, for a malicious offence punished with a penalty of two to six years (that is, with a penalty, let's say frankly, substantially identical to the old prediction of paragraph 5 of Article 73 of the Single Text on drugs), there would be a multiplier effect of the sanction. That is all we are discussing. And I must tell you that Senator Caliendo's amendments, which you have very significantly rejected, showed you a systematic way out. These amendments acknowledged that it was right to want to punish more seriously the injuries and deaths caused by pollution or environmental disaster. But then, instead of setting sanctions out of all criteria, stick to the sanctions laid down by the system in Article 586 and, if you like, increase them by a third, double them by half, triple them. I mean, do what you want, but with reference to a given present in the system. I know perfectly well that you will vote on this amendment 1,231 (text 2). I hope, Senator Casson, that it will be reworded because, otherwise, repeat, in the last paragraph of 452-a, the same provision that you wish to introduce in Article 452-a.1. You will vote on it, and it will probably come into force if the House, as I hope, does not take shelter. Then, as I have already said, the Constitutional Court will simply reject it. One question, however, I want to ask you, because I have heard in many speeches about the environment and the sensitivity to the environment. But if the crime is as dangerous as you say - and it is, because the experience of these years shows us how dangerous a pollution or an environmental disaster is for public health - why are you beating so much on the possible consequence (injury or death) and not fighting to the full for an increase in the sanction, that it is real and proportionate to the danger and the damage that comes from these cases? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u190	With regard to the remark that had been made, a more precise check, which I would also like to mention to Senator Casson, shows that the last part of the text of amendment 1,231 (text 2), from the words "In case" to its conclusion, is virtually identical to the text which was examined by the Commission. I think that Senator Casson should take note of this in order to avoid unnecessary repetition which would only render the legislative text of bad quality. I hope Senator Casson has been able to take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u191	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u193	CASSON (PD). Evidently, this is a case of refutation that can be settled in coordination. However, I just wanted to clarify and remind Senator Palma, who has been a prosecutor for many years, that when you sell drugs to a person and this person dies, there is not a penalty from one to five years, but the basic penalty for the crime is provided for up to twenty years and in addition the penalty from one to five years. In this case, the same is true: for environmental pollution there is a penalty of two to six years, plus what is foreseen in case of injury. I simply remind you of the existence of Article 81 of the Criminal Code. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). But there it is until twenty years old, here it is up to six years old!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u194	The amendment will be put to the vote without the last period, which is absolutely identical, so there is no need to wait for the coordination of the text, in the face of such a clear refutation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u195	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u197	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I believe that Senator Casson did not quite understand what I had done earlier. In my opinion, you should stay a little longer and listen to doctors, when you prepare a law on health too and talk about illness. When there is an illness, in which the subject heals in fifteen, twenty or twenty-five days, but still heals, one cannot create this case: why fix the threshold of twenty days? It's kind of like Totò's sketch when he says the famous letter and says, Point, semicolon, pt. Here the days are thrown at random. An illness heals and when you do the trial after two, three or four years, there will be no memory if the person will be healed in twenty, twenty or thirty days, which by the way is a diagnosis of prognosis that the doctor does, and however leaves no kind of consequence. Since I have the floor, I would like to make another comment aloud to this House. When it comes to public health and danger, my fellow senators and my medical colleagues do not want it, we have to ask ourselves what would happen if we wrote everything about the actual cessation of the danger to public health. I give two examples of two Nobel Prize winners: one is Röntgen, who invented X-rays, the other is Marie Curie, awarded the Nobel Prize in 1911, who discovered ionizing radiation. Their discoveries, which are revolutionary and have saved millions of lives, have produced radiation and therefore pollution on the environment, in fact the applications of their discoveries require particular caution. It is clear, therefore, that we cannot make every grass a bundle. There is no need, in a law, to generalize, but we must reason by sectors, by watertight compartments, because otherwise we also end up condemning science. It tells you who obviously believes that he has to simplify and invites, while it is still in time, Senator Casson to eliminate the twenty-day hypothesis, but also the very concept of illness: everything that heals cannot be included in a law, because otherwise, when a judgment will be given in twenty years, depending on whether a person has done twenty or twenty-one days of illness, he will give himself a few more years in prison. It seems to me that this is neither fair nor correct and that it is to be abjured, of course, like all things done badly, which then come back. Of course, I wish Senator Casson no return.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u198	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u199	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u200	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, the Senator, as well as Dr. Barani, may well be aware of a circumstance, because I see that he is very concerned about the indeterminate nature of the term'sickness' and its duration (if it may be less than or less than 20 days). I ask him, please, to take a pen and a sheet of paper and write down the following articles: 146, 500, 571, 581, 582, 583, 583- bis, 590, 591, 593, 689 and 717 of the Criminal Code. These are all articles where the term "sickness" has been analysed and evaluated in our legal system for the measurement of criminal sanctions for decades in the various graduations (if less than twenty days, if serious, serious or otherwise). Therefore, this is really a concern that has no reason to exist. With reference to amendment 1,231 (text 2 corrected), tabled by Senator Casson, I announce the vote in favour of the 5 Star Movement Group. We believe that the message is clear; I also say this to President Palma. While it is true that, in accordance with Article 73 of the Single Text on drugs, there are no specific aggravating factors for the more or less quantified injuries or in the case of death, it is because, precisely, the edittal framework that reaches up to twenty years, lets us think that the legislator of 1990 considered the intrinsic danger of activities... [[Senator Palma's comments.]] No, it's nothing to do with the gestures that President Palma does. As I said, there is an offensive inherent in the danger of public health in drug dealing and, therefore, it was not necessary to specify how much goes beyond what is provided for in Article 586 of the penal code, which has been widely discussed. Here, instead, in the matter of environmental crimes, which we are finally introducing into the legal order for the first time, it is necessary that, precisely in the face of a penalty that President Palma now calls "mite" (i.e. from two to six years in the case of environmental pollution), the possible responsible knows the penalty. For example, it is good that I, which tomorrow morning I go to spill my bin of crap, know that, in case I cause a serious or serious injury (even death), I can be punished, always in the contest of crimes referred to in Article 81, with all the benefits of a formal contest of different crimes (so with all the benefits already provided by the law), with a pejorative penalty compared to that expected for personal injury. Therefore, the measure and quantification seem perfectly reasonable and focused on the message or - better - the concrete action that we must give this country, which is completely destroyed. Every day television also gives us news of catastrophic situations, not only in the now unfortunately infamous Land of bell fires, but throughout Italy. We're poisoning ourselves. It is good that, from small to large companies, responsibilities, when they become relevant for criminal purposes, are recognised and finally sanctioned. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u201	We shall then proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,231 (text 2 corrected). I would point out that the words of the beginning of the amendment are also similar (not already the modulation of penalties, which is different) to what has been written in other parts of the text. So when we vote on Article 1, we assume that this coordination will have to be done. The last period (from the words "in case" to the words "twenties") is deleted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u202	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u204	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, from a reading of amendment 1,231 (text 2), tabled by Senator Casson, it replaces the text approved by the Commission because it amends only all the penalties.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u205	We have said that the last period is being stopped, because it is already in the text. The premise to the amendment is also found in the text, but since the modulation of penalties is different it is obvious that the possible approval will involve a change, except for this coordination for a few words. It seems to me that the substance is clear: in essence, the different modulation of penalties is put to the vote: the rest is intended to be deleted or coordinated. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,231 (correct text 2), tabled by Senator Casson and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,234.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u206	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u208	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, I entrust myself above all to Senators Caliendo and Palma, the only ones who seem to have kept a minimum of reasonableness and balance, because here it is not about being judicialists or guarantors, but about applying logic, that ABC that has failed. The provision of Article 452-b, thus amended, allows, after we have made a potpourri with the concept of pollution since we move on to the environmental disaster, to have a more logical and orderly settlement of the norm. In the first paragraph, it is considered appropriate, in accordance with the constitutional principles of strictness and precision of the criminal law, to define the environmental disaster in order to clearly indicate the damage that is to be avoided and the legal good that is to be protected. The amendment also seeks, in the formulation of the definition, to make it more precise, also in order to make clear the differences between this crime and the least serious one of environmental pollution. With regard to the determination of the penalty, it is proposed to raise the penalty and the introduction of the fine, which inexplicably the text of the bill provides for environmental pollution and not for the environmental disaster, offended to the legal property protected significantly more serious than the first crime. So with Amendment 1,234 I try to make a little adjustment to what has so far been quite confusing, making it more limited, targeted and even gradual. It seems logical to me and I do not understand how we can vote no - since you will vote in this way - to an amendment of this kind which is of pure common sense and logic. Tell me what's wrong. [[Senator Caliendo's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u209	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u210	Senator Puglia, for her Group, Senator Fucksia has already spoken in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u211	PUGLIA (M5S). President, rather than... president. That's the rule. Why do you intervene? Does he intervene in dissent? PUGLIA (M5S). Certainly in dissension from my colleague. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does he intervene in dissent? PUGLIA (M5S). Of course. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that and give you the floor. PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, every time I take the floor, you let me speak. Do this... president. But I make you speak every time the request is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I don't choose speakers. PUGLIA (M5S). Do this: instead of tweeting when you're in the presidency, take a walk and let another person go and play the president. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u212	All right, speak out, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u213	PUGLIA (M5S). The whole Group does not vote for this amendment. Thank you, President. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u214	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u215	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u216	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I would ask you to accept Amendment 1,234.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u217	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u218	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u219	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to propose the split vote on this amendment, because the first part is what gives a different definition and, in agreement with Senator Fucksia's words, much clearer and more determined than the crime. While paragraphs 2 and 3, especially the parts of the second paragraph where the penalties are stated, could create difficulties for us in Forza Italia and I also imagine the rapporteur to vote on it. I would ask for a split vote, voting separately on paragraph 1 from the other two, i.e. paragraphs 2 and 3. And I would ask the rapporteur, through the majority, to consider voting in favour of paragraph 1, which would have the advantage of giving a much clearer and more definite definition and justifying the penalties, whether they are those already provided for in the current text or, more importantly, if they were the even heavier ones proposed by Senator Fucksia. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You therefore propose to vote separately on the three paragraphs, Senator Malan.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u220	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u221	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u222	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I agree with what Senator Malan said. I, too, would be in favour of voting on the amendment separately, by voting on the three paragraphs separately. I quite agree with paragraphs 1 and 3 and ask Senator Fucksia to add my signature to the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u223	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u225	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, if you are going to put Amendment 1,234 to the vote by separate parties, I would like to inform you that we are against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u226	That can be done if everyone agrees. I was also pointing out, Senator Malan, that there would be problems with the text, because one side stands with the other. However, there is no unanimity.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u227	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u228	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u229	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to know whether the amendment will be put to the vote separately or in full.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u230	Senator Palma, in these cases you can proceed if there is a sharing of the Assembly. If there is no sharing, you can vote for the request by show of hands. Since there was no sharing, if Senator Malan insists, we can vote for his proposal by show of hands, which nevertheless poses a number of problems on the text. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I insist, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I shall therefore put to the vote the motion for a separate vote tabled by Senator Malan. It's not approved. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u231	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u232	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u233	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, if I understood Senator Malan correctly, when he asked for a split vote, he expressed on behalf of the Group his intention to vote in favour of the first paragraph of amendment 1,234. Now, I would like to ask Senator Malan, who spoke on behalf of the Group, to reflect on the possibility of voting in favour of the entire amendment. Let's get out of the misunderstanding: if environmental disaster and environmental pollution, as we all think, are such serious crimes, with such serious consequences for public safety, so much so that we are going to recover from the sanctioning plan in the event of actual damage to the health of individual citizens, I believe that Senator Fucksia's amendment takes on board, substantially providing for a very high sanction against a crime that, by definition, has its enormous spread on the health of citizens. So I would ask Senator Malan to reflect, on behalf of the Group, on these small reflections of mine.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u234	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u235	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u236	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, we are also part of a Group and we can speak as a Group. If the vote had taken place separately, I would have voted in favour of the first paragraph, because at least we had a certain definition, while I have concerns about the second and third paragraphs. Therefore, in the overall balance, I shall vote against Amendment 1,234. Allow me, Mr President, to complete a reflection which I have made aloud; I would not like to have been offensive as I have heard, Mr President, that it was someone against you. I have seen that you have bypassed, but as President you cannot ignore anything when some of your colleagues have no respect for the position you are currently holding. My thoughts are addressed to Senator Casson. When I told him that then he goes back is because I thought he was a candidate in a municipality, maybe in the City of Venice, and then maybe he could be a mayor. At that point, you have to be sure that I'm going to get sick there for 21 days certainly, because the mayor is at the front... president. This is extraneousness of matter. Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). ...and he knows that it can happen that he has a pollution of his territory not manslaughter but, as a health authority, he responds. Obviously I do not comment on the numbers that Senator Buccarella gave because the prognosis against him is more than 20 days.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u237	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,234 tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u238	I declare that the time limit laid down in Article 3 of Law No 441 of 5 July 1982 on: Provisions for the disclosure of the balance sheet of holders of elective positions and of managerial positions of certain entities, for the filing by senators of declarations of changes in assets and income. Senator Luigi Marino - even after the warning addressed to him pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 7 of the law mentioned - has not filed the tax return, indicating with a special letter of 4 December 2014 the reasons for such non-fulfilment. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 7 of Law No 441 of 1982, the said situation is announced.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, as already announced to the groups in the short term, tomorrow's afternoon session will begin at 10.15 a.m. with a report from the Government on the recent developments in Libya. Groups will be able to intervene for five minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u240	I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Italian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly INCE is convened on Thursday 19 February 2015 at 8.15 a.m., in the Senate of the Republic, room of the 14th Commission (European Union policies) to elect the President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u241	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u242	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u243	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I tabled a short time ago my question 3-01561 on the granting of the public service for the distribution of natural gas by means of appropriate public evidence procedures (so-called gas tenders), to be launched by 30 March next for the first tranche of areas. This is a major issue, if we only consider that the total assets of networks and other endowments amount to around €30 billion, of which it is estimated that about 50 to 60% could change manager precisely because of races. The answer to the question, aimed at understanding the reasons that slow down, with inevitable direct and indirect damage, this important action of modernization of our country, is now made even more urgent. Therefore, I urge you and ask you to intervene in order to speed it up, since a further extension is foreseen for the celebration of the races themselves within the framework of the decree thousandprorogues in question at this moment in the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u244	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u245	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u246	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I take the floor to bring back to the attention of this House my question 4-00543 of 11 July 2013 on certain events which have taken place in the community of Il Forteto, according to the accusation, by the founder Rodolfo Fiesoli and 22 other people. I'll show you some passages. On 30 November 1978, Fiesoli was arrested. After six months he was released; in 1985 he was sentenced to two years for child abuse. In 2000 the European Court of Human Rights sentenced Italy to a fine of 200 million lire for the custody of two children to the community "Il Forteto" (Il Forteto). In December 2011, Fiesoli was arrested for zoophilia and pedophilia within the cooperative/community. From 1997 to 2010, the community received €1.2 million. Started the trial in April 2013, unpleasant facts begin to occur to those who accuse the "prophet," Rodolfo Fiesoli: tires pierced nine times, wires of the telephone line cut, assaults and beatings. In July 2014, the judge was also tried to accuse. The trial stops, but not the prescription. Fortunately, in December 2014, the Supreme Court rejected the objection and the trial could resume. The judge proposes a busy calendar of hearings. The defense doesn't fit. The defense attorney of Fiesoli even waives his office because of the violation of the rights and duties of the defence. The usual games often used to run away from convictions. We do not know if a sentence will ever be reached, but we have a duty to recognize the right of the victims to know why they continued to entrust minors to Fiesoli despite convictions. I therefore ask once again for an answer to my question. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u247	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u248	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u249	FUCKSIA (M5S). Colleagues, I speak about the news of the newborn Nicole, who died a few hours after birth in Catania, in circumstances whose dynamics will have to be deepened in a very careful way to understand if what happened could be avoided and to prevent this from happening again. Italian health care is not the last in the class, as many say; of course, it can improve, but overall it seems to have good numbers. I say this because all the data in our possession converge on the fact that our hospital facilities, in almost all cases, allow women to become mothers in safety, offering them everything they need to give birth in health. At the same time, we cannot hide that in Italy the quality of assistance is stain of leopard; a condition often due to administrative reasons. Compared to regions where health care is objectively lacking and lacking those fundamentals that a civil state would require, there are regions where health shows its best face and excels also at the international level. Now, in the case of little Nicole there are still no elements, let the inspectors do their job. What I wanted to point out, apart from the inacceptability in itself of the fact and the proximity to the family, is the comment of the president of the Sicilian Region, Crocetta, who invites the Councillor Borsellino not to resign. But I, in the light of what happened and what he said, invite Crocetta to make a thought to resign [[Applause from Senators Bell and Catalfo]] In this case, in fact, we have a fairly clear regulation: we have the guidelines, the determinations of the State-Regions Conference, which dictated all the measures for accreditation and, as for the birth points, it has well specified what must be done above 1,000 parts per year or under 500 (case where, tendingly, the birth points should be closed). The guidelines and the State-Regions agreement, in particular the one signed on December 16, 2010, specify well what needs to be done. So when politics doesn't understand, it doesn't do what it has to do, it's not the usual doctors who make mistakes because they're there working in the conditions they're in; the mistake is politics. Therefore, in addition to the scandal and indignation for what happened, I am scandalized for the professionals of indignation, those who, instead of intervening, dump the barrel on those who are working on the field. In this regard there is a beautiful letter from Luciano Cifaldi, hospital doctor, secretary of the CISL doctors Lazio. He concludes the letter in which he very well details this alibi of justiceism of convenience, in the following way: to make it clear to the professionals of indignation that they cannot yesterday cut hospital care and today pretend amazement at the crowding of the first aid. In the face of the death of an innocent, in the face of the suffering of the family, I believe that politics should have apologised with a low head. I agree with this and, in conclusion, add one last thing. Let us remember that in the law of stability we have approved paragraph 566 on nurses, which provides for a mixing of profiles, roles and responsibilities that will have negative repercussions on health. Then we'll cry crocodile tears.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u250	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u251	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u252	PHASE (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the case of asbestos deaths at Monfalcone shipyards. The subject goes back to the provision on crimes against the environment that we have discussed so far, a bill of extreme importance and delicacy. The asbestos issue in Monfalcone's yards in recent days has occupied the pages of the daily newspapers of Friuli-Venezia Giulia (regional chronicle of 16 and 17 February of "II Piccolo" de "Il Messaggero Veneto") for the extension of the expectation of the deposit of the reasons for the judgment at the tribunal of Gorizia, which on 15 October 2013 had decreed the conviction of 13 accused of injury to the 87 former yards. In fact, the parallel assignment to the magistrate, engaged in the direction of the debate and in the management of this delicate task, of the high office of presidency of the court of Trieste has involved, from October 2013, the commitment of the same in the management of both situations, with the consequence of the extension of the times for the deposit of the reasons of the sentence of the maxi-trial for the victims exposed to asbestos in the yard of Monfalcone. The accuracy and professional seriousness, universally recognized to the judge in question, which needs time to be adapted to the analysis of cases, must not be separated from the other aspect, which I have repeatedly pointed out, of which I would stress the urgent solution. I am referring to the extension of the staff and the rebalancing of the judicial geography of the circumscription borders of the tribunal of Gorizia and Friuli-Venezia Giulia in general. A number of people in contact with Minister Orlando have intervened in relation to the problem. I point out the case, because it is of all evidence that the situation of organic criticality, now chronic, does not benefit to a fast justice, slender and able to give answers in times appropriate to the processes in progress. In this regard, I ask that the evaluation be made to implement the organic plant, both with judging figures and with administrative figures, drawing also from requests for transfer from other locations to the tribunal of Gorizia, which has an absolutely urgent need. [[Senator Tocci's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u253	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u254	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u255	CASTALDI (M5S). Antonello Corporale, a well-known journalist and writer, today about "Il Fatto Quotidiano" focuses attention on the governor of the Molise Region, who had as his slogan: It will be the Molise of all: a governor supported by PD, IdV, SEL, PCI, PSI, Udeur and three civic lists. In short, a governor in the perfect style "Renziano": unique party and unique business, all well paid by the citizens. The Newspaper Fact focuses attention on the architect Paolo Di Laura Frattura, entrepreneur until 2012 and today president of the Regional Council, under charge for having signed, as a technician, the light metro project, which connects Amatrice (about 1,000 inhabitants) to Bojano (about 8,000 inhabitants) and for having approved, this time as governor, the same project. The newspaper headlines on the front page: Great works Molise: never again without the 24 million euro meter. All this in a region several times and for many years jumped to the chronicle for familyism, kinship and waste factory. Guess who did the study that certified this connection as "necessary"? The Proter studio, of the then architect Frattura and engineer Pillarella, respectively, today, president of the Region and director of the Region area. Proter srl had thought of the work in 2003 and had received the assignment from the Covenant for Matese. Fracture, as a member of Proter srl, in 2003 he was commissioned by a regional agency, led by his friend Michele Iorio, to study a fast mobility system. The Proter imagines to rhythm the races every half hour, for the acute time slots, and every hour for the most dead ones, to buy 4 diesel minuetti, to build 12 shelters and to slide everything on the historical track of the railways and the game is done! Today, continues Corporal, the dream is finally reality. With only 24 million euros it will be possible to untangle, avoiding the nightmare of heavy traffic. The Molise Region has decided: the Fracture president has welcomed the idea that the Fracture designer proposed, without success, over 10 years ago. You were right, Antonello Corporale, when he used to write: The Molise is not a Region, but a tongue-breaker, an inextricable family business, a system where votes are not counted, but weigh, a network of submarine customer conducts, where merit is not worth and not even the needs, where there are still systems of missing funding, amazing aspirators of money. At the time, when Corporal wondered if the Molise was our future, there was an investigation into the Fracture itself for Biocom, to justify the interest of the national press. There are now others and there are names and surnames that I do not have time to say in this House today. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Castaldi. CASTALDI (M5S). I just want to thank the two citizens who are fighting in that Regional Council: Antonio Federico and Patrizia Manzo. Don't give up: honesty will be back in fashion. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would ask you to hand over the rest of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u256	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u257	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u258	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u259	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I happened the other night, as could have happened to other senators and certainly to many citizens, to see a television show in which there was a person who was acting as a senator. The circumstance - in my opinion - is particularly serious because the figure that we cover here today was basically described as that of sloppy people, who also take advantage of privileges in a way that even, by blowing their senator status, manages to enter the Sanremo Festival without having the ticket and even to overcome checkpoints and controls. I am particularly impressed by what has happened, both because of the great office of delegitimation that it is pouring out to the institutions and the figure of those who sit in this Chamber, which does not correspond, for what I know, to the description given in that Chamber, and because if really pretending to have a public office - such as that of a senator, a Member or otherwise - it opens the doors and avoids the controls, making the minimum guarantee of security go away, anyone could go into any place causing who knows what public risks. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He didn't say what the transmission was. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). The transmission is "The cage" on La7 and it seems to me that the bet is the one last Sunday or in any case of past evenings. I think it is appropriate that, through the offices, the Presidency should do the necessary checks, because I think that in that case we have gone beyond the journalistic function. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's why I asked you what the transmission was. Thank you for the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u260	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-392.ana.u261	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 18 February, in two public sessions, the first at 10.15 and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.06 p.m.
