ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 23 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, as agreed at yesterday afternoon's sitting, the Government has made available the urgent information on the events that occurred yesterday in Spain and, therefore, the Minister of Defence Pinotti will make an information on the air accident that took place yesterday at the NATO military base in Albacete in Spain at 10.30 a.m. Groups will be able to intervene for five minutes. I therefore suspend the sitting until 10.30 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.34 a.m. and resumed at 10.30 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u5	The next item is the statement by the Minister of Defence on the air accident at the NATO military base in Albacete. After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have five minutes available. I call the Minister for Defence, Senator Pinotti.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Spanish air base in Albacete, around 14.15 (local time), an F-16 aircraft of the Greek Air Force in the take-off phase, following the loss of control by the crew for causes being investigated, crashed and crashed to the ground near the flight line, where aircraft and personnel from many NATO countries were deployed, including Italy, engaged in training activities under the programme called Tactical Leadership Programme. As soon as I was informed of what happened, I contacted the military leaders to ascertain the health conditions of the Italian military involved, following step by step the evolution of the situation. As far as we know at this time, the serious accident caused a fire on the flight line, where preparatory operations were underway for the operational missions of the aircraft of the various NATO participating nations, with the involvement of personnel on the ground, causing the death of ten soldiers (eight French and two Greek pilots) and the injury of at least twenty-five others. The Italian contingent was also involved in the accident. Among the Italian personnel present in Albacete are twelve injured, of which one serious, the marshal Giuseppe Romata of the 3rd Department maintenance aircraft of Treviso, with burns on 60 percent of the body and a broken ankle. The other eleven, one pilot and ten specialists, are minor injuries, six in observation at the hospital in Hellin and five, including the pilot, already returned to the base in Albacete. The serious injured, whose parents, who are currently on their way to Madrid, are regularly updated on the state of health, was transported to the La Paz University Hospital in Madrid. I personally spoke with the Italian commander present at the airport, telling myself of the conditions of the wounded, and with the Spanish Minister of Defence, to have further information on what happened and to participate in my closeness in this tragic circumstance. With the Spanish Minister we felt late in the evening and together we considered it more useful not to go immediately to the place of exercise, also because the track is still closed and we must start from Madrid by helicopter. Today we will resent and evaluate together with him, during the day, what will be the most opportune time to visit our Italian staff, and in particular the wounded marshal, who is entering the operating room right now. Of course I will also represent the deepest condolences, as I have already done by telephone, from the Italian Government to the representatives of the Allied countries, who have suffered so much loss, particularly to the French and Greek Ministers. Italy participates in this course with a detachment composed of 30 military and two AMX aircraft of the 51st Stormo of Istrana of the Air Force and with a detachment of the Navy composed of 38 military and five aircraft Harrier AV-8B. Due to the conditions under which the TLP flight line is located, which is closed and not accessible for due investigation, it is currently not possible to assess the extent of damage to aircraft. However, looking at the area of the accident, it can be seen that surely one of the Air Force's AMX aircraft has been damaged by the flames that have developed as a result of the impact on the ground of the Greek aircraft. The Tactical Leadership Programme (TLP) is a NATO training programme established in 1978 on the basis of an agreement signed by Spain, the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Greece, Germany, Denmark and Italy, which has joined since 1996 with aircraft cells from the Air Force and Navy departments. The TLP provides two types of courses: those exclusively theoretical and those in flight. Since 2009, the TLP has been held in Spain at the Albacete Air Base. The objective of the TLP programme is to increase the effectiveness of air operations conducted by the Allied Forces and to enhance multinational cooperation in aeronautical operations, promoting the development of leadership skills and capabilities for analysis, planning, execution and evaluation of aviation activities. Specifically, the activity in progress in Albacete, scheduled between 19 January and 13 February, falls within the framework of the annual programming of four sessions of Flying courses (FC) planned by NATO for 2015, in which will participate set of the aerotactic lines of the Air Force and the Navy. Obviously the thought of all of us goes to all the military on site, but in particular to our most seriously wounded military. Yesterday I had the opportunity to speak not only to one of our local commanders, but also to some of our military personnel who witnessed the accident. Since it happened near them, as well as causing some slightly injured, you can imagine how much they were affected and shocked by the incident: it was an accident that had a very serious impact. Our Italian soldiers were very close to the French and the plane crashed very close to where they were located.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u7	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Defence. He is registered to speak Senator Mario Mauro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u8	Madam President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the Grand Autonomous Left and Freedoms in order to express our condolences and our deepest sympathy to our Greek friends, French friends and Spanish authorities, through our Minister of Defence, who have seen this important NATO initiative taking place in their territory torn by such a grievous event, and above all to our staff of the Air Force and the Navy involved in this grave misfortune. The Minister will allow me, in support of the serious responsibilities he holds at the moment, to make some considerations, albeit briefly, that may represent a moment of reflection in such a serious circumstance. The first reflection is that we are part of NATO and other international alliances, including the European Union, which requires us, precisely, to constantly reflect on the scope of NATO, that is, on the purpose and the endowment of means for these alliances to be truly effective. For many years now, in NATO, we have been discussing how much expenditure should be spent on ensuring the security of the world. We have set a ceiling, an expenditure indicator of 2% of gross domestic product. For many years - and this is well known by the professionals - the European countries, in particular Italy, have been largely below this spending commitment. It was paradoxically the same Greece. And when we talk about acronyms, like those of the equipment of the Areonautica and the Navy, we must have the common sense to reflect on the fact that they are all acronyms that represent the past, in many ways no longer correspond to the needs of the present and certainly can no longer guarantee the future. An AMX of ours has been damaged, an airplane bearing a glorious name and that, at the same time, must remind us that theoretically the Italian Armed Forces of AMX possess 130; in fact, however, there are few dozens, because for many years when an AMX breaks all the other aircraft are used, through a mechanism called cannibalization, to repair what only can remain alive and render a public service to our country and its alliances. I say this because the fall of the F-16 (will establish the investigation for what reasons), very hardly, according to the dynamics of the accident, can depend on a human error, since the accident took place in the seconds immediately after the take-off, when it is reasonably necessary to express the greater power of an airplane; therefore, a possible drop in pressure, which arises from a defect due to the fact that these aircraft are forty years old, says a lot about the urgent commitment of the countries of the European Union to understand how to cope together, not only in the good intentions of governments but also through spending resolutions dependent on greater and real integration of the common defence process. Well, therefore, the Italian Government does, also through the action carried out with determination by Minister Pinotti, to lean for the study of a substantial European defence mechanism and for the development of the needs of our armed forces so that they can respond jointly to the needs of the future. I add nothing else, extending on this occasion, always through our Minister, our non-formal solidarity with the Allied countries. Greece, France and Spain are called upon with us to create an embankment for a series of challenges on the Euro-Mediterranean scenario in which - I would like to remind you - the American Armed Forces have long been absent. The Sixth fleet of the United States is now absent from the Mediterranean; the only aircraft carriers present are Russian and Chinese. It is true that ours remains, with a question mark as to whether there can be planes on board that are really capable of meeting the challenges of the future. In addition, British aircraft carriers will probably remain on the stake for over ten years because they have been repaired for some time to renew them. So, all together, when we talk about defence, we must develop our defence culture, so that the efforts of the highest professionalism of our Armed Forces do not remain in an increasingly deafening isolation and only when these episodes occur do we all remember what it means to have someone who provides for our security over time. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u9	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u10	Madam President, in the Minister's report and in the speech of a former Minister of Defence, we have heard a picture that mentions the state of the art. Our military, along with other military forces of the multinational forces, participated in this important training school pilots. If you act on the various international theatres, with multinational forces, it is necessary and inevitable to relate, prepare and practice to operate in teams. Let's see, however, what it means to be part of a group, a team perhaps not up to the level in terms of means or equipment. As former Minister Mario Mauro recalled, these very important machines need immediate interventions, because their peculiarity is to be called to intervene immediately and this implies a very rapid departure, so the pilots are alerted 24 hours a day and the take-off is immediate. These machines may, once detached from the ground, head perpendicularly upwards, but everything must be in place, the engines must be perfect, the aeroplane must be extremely efficient. Unfortunately, we have an air park which is ineffective and old-fashioned. We would therefore like to take advantage of this moment, in which we regret what happened and relatively satisfied for not having lost our military, to focus on the need to have first of all clear ideas about what our country wants to do and how we want to participate, in terms of international collaboration: if you want to participate, you have to do it in full capacity and this means being equipped and equipped with means that inevitably have an economic impact in terms of costs, with an aircraft fleet suitable for the moment. The Harriers are relatively still in good shape, even though you told us that perhaps one of them will be to be dismissed as he was involved in the four explosions that the Greek aircraft involved. The AMXs are old, the F-16 Falcons, like the Greek one that crashed, are planes that are forty years old and we still have a lot of them. The problem therefore arises and, I say this with the necessary seriousness, we do not want to go back to this House and perhaps talk about a plane of ours that has had a deficiency or an accident. Let's hope that doesn't happen. That is why, Madam Minister, we take advantage of what happened to make us understand with the due calmness that, just as we have renewed the naval park of our Navy, after having given the start to the Government for the revision and the purchase of new equipment, in how much our boats had been put out of use perhaps also for an improper use (because the operation Mare nostrum we could also spare it, with all those hours of navigation that perhaps could be employed to do more), we must also renew the park of our aircraft just to put in maximum safety our military apparatus and our military. We would like to take the opportunity to wish, on behalf of the North League, that everything will be resolved for the best even for the marshal now in reserved prognosis, which is the only Italian military that seems to have been quite affected by this incident and to whom we wish. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the White and Latorre Senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Battista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u12	Madam President, Minister, I am speaking on behalf of the Autonomous Group and I also express my condolences to the military involved in this tragic accident. It hasn't been that long since another plane crash involving our military, always during training activities. Of course, it is up to us to minimise losses. With all the efforts we could make in the field of technology and training, we could also minimise the number of accidents. We are, however, waiting for further information on the dynamics that caused the incident at Albacete. As has already been said by those who have spoken before me, I recall the commitment we made in the Atlantic Alliance to reach 2% of our GDP in the defence sector. Of course, at this time of economic crisis, this is a difficult objective, so much so that we are not yet able to fulfil this commitment. It is also true, however, that, during the work of the NATO delegation, the difficulties of US Congress parliamentarians in dealing with the European Union have been expressed on several occasions. Even at the parliamentary stages of the US Congress, they wonder when we Europeans will be able to equip ourselves with a common defence system. All this - it has been said quite clearly by the new President of the Parliamentary Assembly - will not happen until we reach the budget of expenditure indicated. It has also been made clear that the commitment must be fulfilled mainly by the major countries, such as Italy, Spain, France and Germany. It is obvious that small countries such as the Baltic Republics, while meeting the target of 2% of GDP, will never be able to make a substantial contribution to ensuring European defence. I would also like to point out that, despite the current lack of our European defence system, within the Atlantic Alliance we are able to guarantee aviation to countries like Estonia. Let us try to think about what could happen in the countries of the Baltic Republics at this time when Russia still exercises some desires from the former Soviet Union. I have seen all the debates in this House and in the Commission on this matter. When we talk about military spending, many political forces raise a concern: why do we spend resources on military account? A very clear analogy was made during a recent conference. When we face spending on health care, no one cares. If we now decide to equip our hospitals with very expensive machines, even if we hope to never have to use them, we would face this expense - I think - without too much difficulty. When, on the other hand, we deal with the issue of defence spending, there are always those who wonder why we do not spend in other areas. Colleagues, we spend in defence with the same approach as we do in health spending: we hope never to use it. No one ever hopes to need a CT machine or a scan machine if there are several complications of our health. We must have the same attitude in the defence sector. It is a very difficult task, in our political role, to convey this consideration to the outside world, to the public. In fact, we make an investment in security hoping to use it as little as possible, if ever, but we have to. Otherwise, if we continue towards a further reduction in the budget, we will never be able to follow a path that will lead us to a European defence system and to guarantee a security that - as we all see - even in the face of the threat of the Islamic State, we must absolutely have. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u13	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed information he has just given to this House. On behalf of the Group, I would like to express my closeness to the Allied Armed Forces, to the countries that have suffered the most heavy losses in this incident and to our military, who have risked their lives in a very serious way in a circumstance in which it seems evident that there are no responsibilities, especially in some Armed Forces that have also suffered the greatest losses. Although it is the incidental fall of an aircraft of the Greek Armed Forces, this episode makes us reflect on one aspect in a particular way, that is on the danger of that type of activity: our military and all the Armed Forces, and the Allied Armed Forces, risk their lives not only in the training activities, but also in the ordinary ones of maintenance, management and surveillance of military equipment, polygons, ammunition and armaments. And this also makes us reflect on the fact that those who do this work, those who are engaged in risky areas, run risks even when they are not engaged in an operational phase of a peace mission or are involved in a conflict. The military risks serious professional diseases, because weapons - and we must not forget this - are often very sophisticated equipment and are made to kill, and not to help, because they are used to manage situations of crisis, heavy conflicts, aggressions and to organize the defense of citizens and our countries. Mine is a reflection that suggests, meanwhile, to pay great attention from the point of view of maintenance and equipment. A plane of that kind costs about 100 million euros. An F-23, with weapons, costs around $140 million. They are industrial plants that fly, usually driven by one person. They are a huge asset that, therefore, needs investment and careful maintenance, and can never be overlooked. In fact, it's the opposite. We know that, unfortunately, this is a world that still sees the engaged armies. I don't know how many conflicts there are, but we're talking hundreds around the world. There are some very close. The crisis situation in Ukraine, but throughout North Africa and the Middle East, gives us a series of reflections on the capacity of our country, the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance to respond to the necessary defence of our borders and our values. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Bencini and Simeoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u15	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u16	Madam President, I would like to address my first thought to you, Madam Minister, about the speed of intervention you have shown this House and, above all, about the necessary planning of a visit to the places of the tragic event that took place yesterday afternoon in Spain. Thank you, on behalf of the People's Area Group, for the accurate information you have wanted to share with this House, which helps to explain what happened yesterday and to escape any imaginative conspiracy or overly superficial hypothesis. Surely - as has been pointed out several times - the elements available cannot allow us to mark the event as an accident dictated by human error or simply technical. However, it would be unfunctional at this stage to abandon itself to theories that have nothing to do, perhaps, with the work that will be carried out by the competent Commission of Inquiry. Few know that the Tactical Leadership Programme is an advanced training program involving combat pilots and that is oriented to the acquisition of qualifications and specializations. Therefore, the main objective of the programme is to implement the terms of multinational cooperation in aviation operations. Italy has been participating in this programme for years and its strategic character has always been indisputable, beyond any controversy or generalization due to the emphasis of the moment. Madam Minister, as you yourself have pointed out, the dynamics that led to the accident must be deepened. An F-16 crashed just during the take-off phase, and then crashed on other parked aircraft loaded with fuel, could have caused a tragedy of even greater proportions than has occurred. All this deserves respect for the military who have lost their lives, but also and above all clarification to show quickly possible responsibilities, if these exist. The press reported that among the affected aircraft there would be an AMX of the 51st Storm of Istrana of the Air Force and 5 aircraft Harrier AV-8B of the Navy, some of which would have suffered damage. We ask, therefore, for information on this aspect and how the Ministry intends to intervene in order to remedy the damage allowing a rapid rebalancing of endowments in charge of the Italian presence also within the military program. As NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg pointed out, this is an accident that affects the entire NATO family. I want to make this expression my own in order to underline the scope of this event that lies beyond the military and strategic boundaries of the program and strikes the intimate reason for being together and sharing security objectives. We ask you, Minister - as I am sure you have already done - to express the condolences of this House to the countries that lost their men in the accident and, above all, to convey to our wounded military all our closeness and participation. At times like this - I am sure - Italy always has the strength to find its praiseworthy unity. [[Applause from Senators Susta, Tonini and Albano]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u17	Senator Marton is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u18	Madam President, Minister, I imagine that the information in your possession cannot be complete, given the limited time. I have listened to all the Members who have spoken before me very carefully and, although I share many of the things I have said, I come to diametrically opposed conclusions. The fact that we have to invest up to 2% of our gross domestic product in armaments is something we absolutely do not agree with. We believe that the Italian State could not have allowed - and will never allow, although the aircraft are dated - to send our pilots in flight by means that are not efficient, in perfect efficiency, and cared for. I also believe that, given the professionalism of our mechanics and our military, they would not allow us to take the flight with aircraft that they consider not to be in perfect efficiency. Madam Minister, in my opinion, we must completely review our foreign and defence policy. We absolutely must not allow - I say this without any controversy, believe me - our military to make our foreign policy. We have to decide what to do when we grow up: we can no longer afford to do all the missions around the world. In my opinion, we need to think about what our possibilities are and, above all, our interests, not just national ones but the whole of Europe. We must put all our competences in common with Europe, and not continue with the purchase of arms. We must not, moreover, take the excuse of this incident to make new purchases of F-35 aircraft, and I say this without any controversy. Of course, the M5S Group is associated with the mourning of the French victims, the victims of the Greek pilots and the injured. However, Madam Minister, we do not envy you, and we call on you again to review our foreign policy and to ensure that our Government makes a common policy with the European Union. That is all I want to say, because my colleagues have already made all the points. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u19	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u20	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for the immediate and timely information, and I also express, on behalf of the FI-PdL Group XVII, my deep condolences for the tragedy that took place yesterday at the NATO base in Spain, wishing our wounded soldiers a speedy recovery. Yesterday was supposed to be a routine exercise, one of the many pilot training courses of the Tactical Leadership Programme, It was instead a massacre of soldiers, of men who work every day for the defense and security of all, since these exercises have the aim of improving the multinational cooperation of NATO air operations. The training programme includes, in fact, the need to establish a timely coordination between the various flight groups during the simulations of attacks on the ground, and we know that in these days, in these weeks, in the war against ISIS, attacks on the ground are an essential component. That of yesterday, unfortunately, is added to a long list of incidents, particularly in Spain over the last thirty years, during which more than 100 soldiers have lost their lives. The F-16 was at the origin of yesterday's disaster and now the investigations will determine whether it is a mechanical accident or a human error, but it was a plane already protagonist in the past of various, too many, accidents. Italy leased 34 of them from the United States in 2003, having to carry out an air space control task. Then, in 2012, all the F-16s were replaced by Eurofighters, with whom the control of the national airspace is currently being carried out, waiting for the F-35 bombers, against whom in Italy is in progress - we heard it even a few minutes ago - an ideological battle, which is a mix between anti-militarism and spending review. Modernisation of military aircraft is not an unnecessary expense: it is an essential step not only to ensure the safety of our military, but to enable Italy to carry out its joint defence mission with NATO partners. The Italian Government, therefore, has the duty to listen to the requests of Aeronautica and Marina, who want the F-35 to be perfectly integrated with the American forces. Similarly, more generally, the ratio of military expenditure to gross domestic product, although within the framework of the necessary rationalization in place, must remain equal to the increasingly complex tasks due to the worsening international scenario. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u21	Senator Latorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u22	Madam Minister, first of all I would like to thank you very much for the promptness with which you have come to Parliament to report on what has happened, also because, despite a tragedy like this, this debate allows us to witness how the Italian Parliament - the Senate of the Republic certainly - addresses these issues without giving anything to a free press and populism that, unfortunately, often animate the public debate and - alas - even some information, which I tend to define more as a certain misinformation. For this I would really like to thank all my colleagues, including the opposition, representatives of political forces and parliamentary groups, who have different views, but who, this morning, with their speeches, have shown that they are dealing with such delicate discussions with extreme seriousness and rigour. I would also like to reiterate - without repeating the facts to which you referred, which are objective - the importance of exercises such as those under consideration. I should like not to forget that this is the highest opportunity for the formation of the forces operating in the Atlantic Alliance. Obviously an investigation will determine the responsibilities, to verify - for example - how that site of Albacete, where this circumstance occurred and which since 2009 has been the site of such exercises - alas - has been the scene of more than one accident. We'll figure it out. Of course, however, these opportunities are those on which the Atlantic Alliance, NATO, is also aiming to evolve its role and function: we are often inclined to interpret it as an instrument that acts to protect security, but today it is acting in the spirit of those who must homogenize and make the forces of the Alliance increasingly interoperable. In this context - let us not forget, it is worth remembering - it is true that our country has not yet reached that target of 2% of the GDP expenditure on defence that is claimed, but in order it is the fifth to contribute to the Alliance. And, with its international missions and the quality of its initiatives, it believes that not only the amount of investment, but also the quality of its presence, should be included in that issue. We can say, even with a certain pride, that we are a country that, qualitatively, has an extremely important role in this framework. This debate, however, is also an opportunity to point out that, with a view to the construction of a European defence system - a strategic objective to which we must work, but which we know requires a long, slow and problematic process - we have on the agenda - as some of our colleagues mentioned - security needs and immediate safeguards, which must encourage us to make the security system of our Atlantic Alliance and our NATO more and more interoperable and functional. In this context, I believe that the objective of increasingly homogenising weapon instruments is also a necessity. I would like to remind you that our country, if I am not mistaken in 2003, acquired 32 F-16, which became protagonists of some accidents - I am not listing them (about six) - but luckily, thanks also to the qualities and capabilities of our military forces and our Air Force, none of them proved deadly. And in 2013 we returned those F-16s, which had their own versatility, but which we used in the blackberries to be able to use Eurofighters. This shows that even the need to homogenise weapon tools and to make them increasingly effective is a requirement that we are responding to with the pursuit of the F-35 programme, albeit in terms and compatibility required. I very much appreciated, although from a very different point of view, Mr Marton's speech which, although with a different orientation, nevertheless takes these speeches very seriously. There is a certain contradiction between the demand for greater security and functionality of our weapons instruments and the need to reduce investment expenditure in these areas. We must certainly, in line with our budgetary needs, move more and more towards a strengthening of uniform, functional and extremely safe weapons instruments. This is the meaning of the programmes that we are following in the maritime sector with the naval law, on which we have concentrated a share of investments aimed exactly at meeting these needs. This applies to the aviation sector and I believe it will also apply to the more specific work that we will do in the military sector. These are the elements of reflection with which we want to accompany a debate that obviously focuses above all on the need to reach, on behalf of the whole Parliament and, as far as I am concerned, of the whole PD, our closeness first and foremost to the families of the victims, to the countries to which these victims belonged and to our military who, once again, even with their sacrifice, continue to give honor and pride to our country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u23	That concludes the statement by the Minister of Defence, whom I thank. The Presidency supports the condolences expressed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u24	I would remind you that, as established by yesterday's Conference of Leaders, the final explanations of vote on the draft electoral law will take place at 2 p.m. I therefore suspend the sitting until 2 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11:17 a.m. and resumed at 14:01 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u25	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1385, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of a bill of popular initiative and the draft own-initiative law of the Cirielli deputies; Pisicchio; Bersani and others; Francesco Saverio Romano; Best and others; Lenzi; Zampa and Marzano; Zampa and Ghizzoni; Martella; Francesco Sanna; Bobba and others; Giachetti and others; Giorgia Meloni and others; Rigoni and others; Rigoni and others; Nicoletti and others; Martella and others; Vargiu; Burtone and others; Balduzzi and others; Laffranco and others; Vargiu; Toninelli and others; Door and others; Zaccagnini and others; Valiante and others; Lauricella; Michele Bordo; Marco Meloni and others; Di Battista and others, and 1449. I would remind you that yesterday's sitting concluded the examination of the articles of draft law No. 1385 and the amendments to them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u28	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, I remember that there was a colleague in the House called Guerra (I believe he was a Communist Refoundation): they were trying never to make him make explanations of vote, because they would be "war declarations." In my case, this is not exactly such a thing, but let's say that it is not a "assemble" to most of the colleagues in this branch of Parliament. They will excuse me if I begin with a quotation about a philosopher, Richard Rorty, who, in his 1982 Treaty on the Consequences of pragmatism, proposed three characteristics of the term "pragmatism." [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u29	Senator Ferrara, as it is important that you listen to it, I ask people in this House to lower their voices.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u30	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). In fact, the term "pragmatism" is vague, ambiguous and trite. I do not know how they have translated the adjective "trito" from English; I highly value the translator in this case. Among other things, I value Rorty so much that I will not try to discern on the three characterizations, but I agree that his attempt was to limit the abuse of the term "pragmatism" was done and perhaps continues to be done. So much so that we tend to define as such not the action aimed at a change of reality with an activity other than mere speculation (which is true pragmatism), but we tend to define pragmatism also that activity that tends to change reality on the basis of opportunity alone; and, at worst, not only on the basis of opportunity, but on the basis of convenience. Exploiting the opportunity alone can obviously become opportunism, and therefore pragmatism becomes opportunism itself. It must be remembered that the theorization of pragmatism was born in America at the end of the nineteenth century and strengthened in the twentieth century, in contrast with compartmental radicalism and sociological convictions at the limits of the religious and overflowing in superstition. In Europe the clearest policy transposition of pragmatic action is represented by Bismarck, with his cynical assertion that politics is the art of the possible. Why did I make this premise? Because I need to tell myself, my colleagues and the whole House why I do not want to vote on this bill. I do not intend to vote on it because, while I understand the good reasons of those who insist on being pragmatic, I want to reaffirm that a law must be voted on when it meets the standards and requirements consistent with the convictions of those who have to vote on it. Now, I don't intend to measure the judgment of goodness on this bill to the only opportunities and necessities, because an incorrect assessment of these requirements could later make me judge myself as a false pragmatic. I respect those who believe that the requirements are met, but I do not agree with them. I do not want to take the risk of being judged a pragmatic false, that is, an opportunist; I entrust myself much more to an ideal afflate. The electoral law is second to the constitutional law alone, in my opinion, because constitutional law feeds the sap, so it is the most detached from opportunity and necessity. The electoral law cannot be a work of mediation, because it is not the solution, but it is a principle, and on principles one cannot mediate. It is, therefore, the mainly ethical law, if one can speak of political ethics. It is much more important than the constitutional law because it gives life to the constitutional structure, and therefore it is necessarily and necessarily detached from the political affiliation of those who choose it. It is so important that it cannot but be untied even by the loyalty of belonging. An electoral law in an advanced country must guarantee transparency, knowledge, choice, equality: the measure we are preparing to vote on, in my opinion, does not. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Di Biagio]] It does not do so because the difference between the capilist and other candidates, the influence determined by the communication capacity of the candidates chosen (i.e. the network capacity or the different economic capacity for the individual eligends), the extension of the field of choice (i.e. the size of the college), the disparity in the offer of representatives all constitute extremely negative constraints and limits. Of course, just as there is no perfect market in the economy, there is no perfect electoral law, but this one that we are about to approve has no intention of being so; Indeed, it is projected in the opposite direction of absolute imperfection. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] TOSATO (LN-Aut). Bravo! FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Where you vote with preferences, as is done in some countries, you do so by regulating the communication capacity. For example, in Belgium, as I said the other day in this House, we cannot afford to give facades or we cannot have election dinners except in the presence of the candidate. Where voting is preferred, the expression must be regulated: this law does not do so. This bill, while picking it up, sometimes tries to let people see that a single system is adopted because, by voting for the capilists, one votes for the safe election of the capilist (where a percentage is reached), so that college has a representative. But in the laws that choose the single method you elect Guy or you elect Caius; in this case, instead, you elect Guy, Caius, Filano and Martino. Therefore, it is not even a single law, but it is not even a proportional law because the expression of the vote comes to be cancelled by the fact that the leader is still elected; it is both, and therefore ends up being neither. If you make a law where you put everything together, you don't regulate democratic life but, by making it complicated, you condemn democracy to a malfunction, you get unbalanced. In fact, what does it mean to vote on a Parliament and to secure a majority in government? It does not happen anywhere in the world; it happens in Italy for municipal and regional councils, but it does not seem to me that these are examples of control and direction. Parliaments are born and live to limit the powers, first the power of the sovereign, today the power of the government. One cannot think of a Parliament that, linked to the Premier elections, ends up not potentially being the instrument of control and direction of that Premier. We cannot subordinate the will and continuity of the popular mandate to the logic of the speed of decision, because the speed of decision, soon and badly, becomes - and history has taught us - decision, if not worse. There is no such law in the world - I am speaking of that socially advanced part, of the developed, industrialized countries, of the G8 countries - and it seems depressing to me to recommend it to countries that are examples of democracy, social development, good governance and progress. That does not mean that I do not understand the good reasons of those who will vote in favour, and I thank my colleagues in the Group who have given me the opportunity to represent my conviction (which is that of those who will vote against, rather than their conviction); the problem is that these reasons do not fully share them. The problem is, as Pertini said in this House in 1953, that the government has speeded up the times without this law giving money to the unemployed, making pensions fairer or dealing with the structural reforms that the Constitution still requires of us. The problem is that I am honored to think of it as the Sicilian Parator who, failing to bear the government's climate of challenge in those days, resigned as President of this House in 1953, then replaced by Ruini, as the chronicles of those years tell. I have already voted on an electoral law because it is appropriate and possible and for eight years, in the following two electoral consultations, I have been critical of it and I have borne the blame for it. This law does not change much; indeed, in that there was the clarity of the abuse, in this, the mystification of the identical objective. I can tell you that my vote is irrelevant and therefore why I insist on dissenting. Instead, I believe that we must take advantage of it, because free voting is so much more free to be romantically political, more subject to ideal than to reality, letting itself be overwhelmed by afflate and not pragmatism. And it does not appear presumptuous, perhaps irresponsibility, because the reference that follows may appear as a claim to judge my work or that of others to whom I am certainly not worthy to be similar, but the men carrying ideals have changed the world, the romantics and romance have made Italy, the temper and the spirit of the men of the Resistance have redone it in the post-war period. The Italy that this law proposes is not my utopia. Of course, I am not entirely sure of my convictions, of my reasons, perhaps I have fallen in love too much, but for this reason and for how much you are looking for better ones I do not find and, not finding them, I will not vote for this law. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u33	MARAN (SPI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a debate that has been going on in the same Chamber every day since 7 January. Surely, Mr. Undersecretary, you will remember "The Day of Marmot" ("Groundhog Day") is a 1993 comedy played by Bill Murray. In the film, the protagonist, a meteorologist sent as reporter on Marmot Day, finds himself trapped in a temporal loop that forces him to continuously relive the same day. Every morning, at 6 o'clock, he is awakened by the radio that always transmits the same musical song and since then the day spends inexorably the same way as the previous one, the events are repeated exactly the same every day. The debate on electoral law is also trapped in a sort of temporal circle and is repeated exactly the same every day since the end of the first Republic, which began precisely from a referendum against preferences. Preferences were rejected by Italians with two referendums, in 1991 and 1993 and with overwhelming majorities, 96 and 83 per cent respectively. They were then considered, also by Bersani, a vehicle of dilation of the costs of politics, of collecting clientele consent, of corruptive phenomena, of splitting parties, of instability of governments. Today they are considered by the PD minority the quintessence of democracy, although in the elections in which they are planned they are used by less than two out of 10 voters in the North and six out of 10 in the South, a figure on which everyone can draw their conclusions. The fact remains that, on April 18, 1993, 11,662 million voters out of 14 million voted in favour of the referendum to repeal significant parts of the Senate's electoral law and to allow that, thanks to the rule of law, the old proportional law could become a law able to introduce and give life to a predominantly majority electoral system. On that day, the Italians decided that governance had to prevail over representativeness and above all that their vote had to count more, because in addition to that on parliamentary representation there had to be that in favour of the investiture of the government, as has been the case for a long time in the great Western democracies. Of course, that referendum vote of 22 years ago could not choose a specific electoral system, but it clearly indicated a precise voting philosophy, which gives voters the freedom to choose a majority and a government. Since then, Italy has not completed its institutional transition; since then, bipolar competition has been constantly mortgaged by the persistence of the previous institutional system and by an inconsistent and fragmented structure of the two main coalitions, because a part of the political system has never accepted the bipolar system and, at best, has tried to bend the situation to the old proportionalist logics: the rift of the PD minority on Italicum, the accusations of authoritarianism addressed to Renzi, the nostalgia of the oligarchical collegiality say very long about the conception of party politics that divides the PD leader from its opponents, internal and external. Of course, many take note that it is not possible to practice the old form of participation in politics, but they continue to believe that the form of participation in politics and that political system are the best and therefore try to approach that model and save as many elements as possible of that experience, but this attitude stems from a static and conservative vision. There are so many electoral systems in the world, every country has its own: think of the France of the double turn, the Great Britain of the union, the Germany of the barrier clause, the Spain of the narrow provincial colleges; Spain, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands and Portugal have blocked lists, in France and England the candidates in the one-name colleges are chosen by the parties, the institute of primary schools is almost unknown. Italy too has a right to its own electoral system and the proposed solution must be assessed in relation to its objectives. After the 2014 Constitutional Court's ruling No 1, the move is to accuse everything that is not shared by unconstitutionality, but that judgment only demanded a minimum threshold for the prize and that the blocked lists are not long. Of course, other consequences can be envisaged, but they are personal reconstructions that are not inside the sentence. I continue to think that the objective of a bipolar system is the only one able to give life to a government legitimized by the electoral body, avoiding the ungovernability or the use of large coalitions not homogeneous in a permanent way. In view of this objective, we consider the text under discussion to be positive overall, which provides for the award of a majority award from the first round and possible national ballots in the event of failure to obtain the prize. It is hardly appropriate to note that the paladin of the left of our house won in Greece with a majority prize that the same left denies as legitimate: with 36 percent. In the course of the debate, we highlighted a number of critical points which have found a satisfactory adjustment. The reform will not be ideal - of course, each of us has its own electoral system in mind, as each of us has its own national training in mind - but it is certainly better than the current system and the system that preceded it. Why then make preferences - an instrument that, as we know, has so many limitations - a matter of principle, ignoring the fact that the text in question introduced a flexible mechanism, which combines to varying degrees blocked voting and preferred voting? About half of the candidates will be elected with the vote blocked and half with the vote preferred. The step forward is remarkable; asking for more means only that you want to blow up the reform or that you want to use the reform to blow up the Premier. But perhaps the main damage of this policymaking is precisely in forcing the debate on marginal issues, losing sight of what really matters. What really matters is that the electoral reform guarantees that governability decisive for the reforms and therefore for the revival of the economy, assigns to the elector the choice on who governs, simplifies the system of parties, removes alibi to the governments on the results of their work. What really matters is that the electoral system is aimed at promoting the formation of a majority and a government, chosen and legitimized by the electoral vote. Of course, there is no direct election in the proposal under discussion, which would require a constitutional revision, but with the ballot between the two lists, the leader is destined to have direct legitimacy from the electoral body. The double-shift system allows the elector to choose directly who is entitled to govern. The task of electoral systems in a parliamentary system is not only to represent, but also to express a government. Basically, the question is still what was at the root of the 1993 referendum: is it the parties or the citizens who choose the government? And does that answer the parties or the citizens? We are always there, forced since then to constantly relive the same day. It's time to get out. But in order to get out of the spell and bring the country towards a democracy of alternation and combat fragmentation, we must overcome the frontal contrast that has torn the last twenty years of national history. Renzi is right when he says: I make the deal with Berlusconi so that he is not forced to govern with him forever, to make the broad permanent agreements or the incursions. Let's face it. The real goal of many of the opponents of the reform and the minority of the PD are not so much the blocked capilists, but the Nazarene Pact. The outcome of convergence could finally lead to a structural change in our democracy. With Italicum, the conditions of bipartitism can be created, with governments no longer being held captive by fragmented and quarrelsome coalitions. With the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism, conditions of more stable governments can be created. Of course, further measures will be needed to support these changes. The amendment of the parliamentary regulations, mentioned by Senator Lanzillotta, is a construction site to be opened as soon as possible. However, it is not necessary to bother Weber or Schumpeter to understand the implications of the competition. A careful scholar like Sergio Fabbrini spoke about it. In a competitive market, businesses that grow are those driven by entrepreneurs who know how to invent new products and experiment with new techniques. In a competitive democracy, the parties that govern are those led by leaders who propose convincing and credible government programs. In both cases, who is wrong or who loses, will have to be replaced. Oligarchic parties are irreconcilable with competitive democracies. In short, if institutional reforms succeed, then it means that new organizations and new mentality will have the opportunity to assert themselves also in Italy. Only then can we break the curse and get out of this time circuit. There are those who fear the risk of an excess of dominance of the majority, but in a country rich in balances up to immobilism like Italy, it is not a credible risk. As Giuseppe Dossetti recalled, bicameralism, the excessive guarantee of the Second Part of the Constitution was born out of excessive fear of the other: it was the fear at the basis of the choice of the proportional system in the purest version of all European countries; but we must free ourselves from the tyrant's complex, we must free ourselves from fear. Also because today the fundamental watershed of Italian politics is not that between the old left and the old right. The real discrimination is among those who believe that the best strategy to get out of the crisis is the one agreed with our European partners - made up of incisive structural reforms also to achieve the Union's expansionary policies - and those who are convinced that this strategy is precisely the ruin of the country. In other words, among those who want to seize the opportunity offered by the crisis to trigger a process of rapid alignment of Italy to the best European standards and those who think that this project is unrealizable, because Italy is different and in Italy these things cannot be done. On these two new sides, political forces will be able to unite or separate themselves, as we have seen in Greece. We believe that Italy can succeed, that new organizations and new mentality will have the opportunity to assert itself also in Italy, that you should not be afraid. We therefore announce our vote in favour. [[Applause from the SCPI and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u36	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I regret the lack of presence in this House today; I have seen more people for debates on motions concerning blind pigeons or other such matters. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Seriously, we are talking about the electoral law and it seems that we are dealing with a simple formal issue. However, I would like to offer the most sincere congratulations to the friends of the Government, the majority, the pseudo-majority or, better, the pseudo-opposition. I used these terms (or, better, pseudotermini) to make it clear to everyone, and especially to those who listen to us, that, if Renzi is still alive, it is due to Berlusconi and to the more than 40 senators who last week with their vote replaced the dissidents of the PD. Just as clearly it must be that, if Berlusconi has returned politically to life, he owes it to Renzi and the Nazarene covenant, with good peace of bipolarism and bipartitism so damned. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It seems to me rather to remind me of the saying: 'France or Spain, provided that this is the case' [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] ; and it worked. I congratulate you, because it took you nine years to change the electoral law and you would never have done so if the Constitutional Court had not decided, with political reasons, to kill the pig and make salami, Cotechini and mortadelle. In the end, however, instead of a great epochal reform we are still facing Porcellum or, better, Porcellinum. Call it as well as you want: Italicum, Espositum, Stronzellum (as I have commonly seen it defined on a site); however, however you want to call it, if you read it you can immediately understand that it belongs to the species of pigs, and therefore of the pig. On 20 December last, at 7.25 a.m., when I tried to oppose the calendarization of electoral law in the Chamber, I said: "Gratta, scratch, the bristle of the Porcellum appears; and so it was. I make this statement because the reasons why the Constitutional Court declared the previous electoral law, i.e. the unreasonableness of the majority prize and the blocked lists, continue to exist in Porcellinum. With regard to the unreasonableness of the majority prize, with the new electoral law a party going to the ballot with 20% of the votes of those entitled to vote (with these numbers the PD recently won the regional elections in Emilia Romagna) and should win the ballot, would pass from the 126 MPs who would take with 20% of the votes to 340, or almost the triple; in the face of the unreasonableness of the majority prize! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] So, not a Porcellum, but a super-Porcellum that leaps like a kangaroo, thanks to which we approve the amendments, and driven by a reaction engine. Only here, between pigs and kangaroos, Parliament finally "cowed." [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] As far as the blocked lists are concerned, there has been a long debate these days about the absurdity of having 300 Members appointed out of 630 (some of them from the PD have shouted at the scandal), but we have forgotten to say that this would be the best possible hypothesis because, theoretically, if there were six political forces equivalent to 15%, an eventuality that cannot be excluded a priori, all 630 Members would be appointed, just as was the case in Porcellum. But there's more. In order to achieve this fantastic result, you had to resort to tricks, scams and to the circonvention of incapable of harming Parliament. The first trick was to bring the measure directly to the House without a rapporteur, certainly not because of the number of my amendments, but because the Commission did not understand it within the Democratic Party and with Forza Italia. The second is the scam of an amendment written by the Government which turns my approved agenda into an amendment in the Commission, which was signed by a colleague who only today expressed interest in the electoral matter, of which the senators had confidence only on Monday evening 19 and therefore out of maximum time to be able to subempt it. The third is the complicity of the Senate presidency in declaring an agenda acceptable as an amendment, which was, among other things, my approval in the Commission. The fourth is the mockery and circumvention of the Senate by a Presidency, which has indicated four amendments tabled by the majority for sub-eminent activity and has deliberately and faultfully kept silent on the presentation of the amendment by Senator Stefano Esposito. The fifth is the fraud - which I hope has been foiled - of the Government, which tried to present a formal coordination that was nothing more than another major amendment, to correct the nonsense that had been written or forgotten to write. Dear government of children and young girls, before ruling, you must learn to write and you have not yet demonstrated it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The sixth, and even more serious, is the political scam. The center-right electorate voted in 2013 the PdL to send it to the government or, alternatively, to fight hard to the left, and instead Berlusconi and Alfano first made a little petting with the left at the time of the Letta government, then there was some quarrel, as always happens among clandestine lovers, and finally, now, with the Nazarene pact, Berlusconi and Alfano got impalmed by President Renzi. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] They have done the miracle of heterologous fertilization assisted by Minister Boschi, Verdini and Lotti, and have brought to the world, with the blessing of midwife Quagliariello (which I do not see in the Chamber today), a beautiful white whale with the shirt of Inter, that is, with the blue lines of Forza Italia and the black lines left by Alfano. The red stripe on the whale is missing, just because it took a PD secretary like Renzi to erase in one shot, from the face of the earth, the PD, the DS, the PDS, the Ulivo, the PCI and the history of the entire Italian left. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The true Nazarene said, "Lazarus, stand up and walk!" The new triumvirate Renzi, Berlusconi and Alfano, failing to succeed, despite having tried you with slogans and slides, to multiply loaves and fishes, as a curious and unlikely remedy to the crisis, have thought well to resurrect the late Christian Democracy, and the zombie has risen and started to walk. Stop the zombie while you can! Before completing this disaster, I want to make a final appeal to you and to President Grasso, now acting as President of the Republic: before again electing a President of the delegitimized Republic, because elected once again by an illegitimate Parliament, let us return to the vote and let us do it now. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Napolitano offered us a great opportunity with his resignation to return, with the vote of the people, to a sphere of democracy and constitutionality. My agenda, approved by this House, has made Parliament, as well as the Council, say that there is an electoral law today, it exists, and it is the Consultellum, that is, a system that is purely proportional to preferences. President Grasso is fully entitled to dissolve the Chambers after hearing the Presidents. Let's take this opportunity and get back to the vote. This Parliament, the son of an illegitimate electoral law, cannot, for the second time and, especially after the Constitutional Court has ruled (when we re-elected Napolitano the Court's ruling still was not there), go and elect a new President who would in turn be illegitimate, as well as illegitimate would be the acts that would be signed and the bodies that would be appointed. We reset the whole system, have the people elect a legitimate Parliament. The new Parliament will elect a new President of the Republic, according to the dictates of the Constitution; it will make constitutional and electoral reform. Then we will return to the vote, even with this law, if you want it, it doesn't scare us. By now Renzi the threshold of 40 percent at the first round can dream of it. Salvini has long put the arrow to the left and is surpassing Forza Italia; then it will be up to the friends of the 5 Star Movement and the ballot will probably go the two Matthew. Renzi's victory at the ballot today seems obvious but, after the woods coming to him from the economy and from Europe after the Italians will realize that his slogans and slides are just a grip for the bottoms, after the troika, taken to foot by Tsipras, will cross the sea nostrum to come to our house to blow on the neck of Renzi and Padoan, I do not see that ballot absolutely obvious. The people, the one for good and without slices of salami on the eyes, will know which Matthew chooses and will vote our who, unlike the other, perhaps will not walk on the waters, but would not sell Italy for 30 denarii or, worse, for 30 euros, as is being done, for example, now with the popular banks. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In conclusion - I am sorry that the President of the Council is not here, but Mr Boschi will tell him - I mean: "Stay calm, Matthew" is the wrong one: in 2009 Pasòk in Greece took 43 percent of the votes, which is more than what you took in 2013 at Europeans. Today the Socialists in Greece have taken 5% and you will end up the same way. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u37	We greet a group of citizens on the island of Marettimo, who attend our work: welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u40	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the electoral reform that the Senate is about to launch today, at second reading, is certainly not a perfect law, but still represents a marked improvement in the electoral system applied over the last decade. Following the decision of the Constitutional Court, in which Porcellum is declared illegal, Parliament has finally exercised its prerogatives, thus overcoming the so-called Consultellum. The Group For the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE agrees with the overall structure of the law and considers important the primary objective that this reform is set, namely to ensure a sure governability, the day after the elections, by awarding a majority prize to the list that, in the first round, exceeds 40% of the votes or that wins at the ballot. We also welcome the changes made by the Senate House regarding the barrier thresholds, namely the increase of the threshold from 37% to 40%, to win the majority prize, and the lowering of the barrier threshold from 8% to 3%, to be elected to the House of Deputies, to ensure greater representativeness. We share, however, the concern expressed by several parties in relation to the ballot. Indeed, in the case of the second round, 55% of the seats may be assigned to a list that has obtained a relatively low percentage of votes, that is to say to a list that wins the ballot, but that in the first round has reached, for example, only 30% of the votes. A further critical issue concerns the elected leader without preference. With this system only the winning list will have elected with preferences, while the opposition parties will have virtually only appointed parliamentarians. We would also have liked to see the possibility of forming coalitions at least in the event of a ballot, but we realize that the system chosen by the majority favours governability. On the other hand, the system that will be valid in the Special Regions of Trentino- South Tyrol/South Tyrol and Valle d'Aosta will be back, for the election of the Chamber of Deputies, the single-name colleges so divided: four in Trento, four in South Tyrol/South Tyrol and one in Valle d'Aosta. We were therefore able to confirm, during the examination here in the Senate, the rule already inserted in the Chamber for Trentino-Alto Adige and to guarantee within this electoral reform an adequate representation of the three linguistic groups of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano. Unlike in the rest of the country, Trentino-Alto Adige/Sudtirol and Valle D'Aosta will once again be able to count on the electoral system that was planned until the 2006 elections and that has always worked well. We believe that single-member colleges are a simple and transparent system, which respects the will of the electorate. In this way, however, we also respect the spirit of the package, the so-called agreements between Austria and the Italian Republic, which, under measure 111, requires that colleges be designated in such a way as to facilitate the proper representation of language groups established in our territory. Since the constitutional reform currently under consideration in the House no longer includes an elective Senate, we believe it is right to provide such a guarantee for the election of the Chamber of Deputies. Otherwise, given the great crushing of the Italian parties, only the representatives of the German and Ladin language groups would have been elected in the multi-nomial college of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, leaving the Italian language group, which represents about a quarter of the local population, without its own representative. In addition to the eight seats in the one-name colleges, three more will be assigned with the blocked list, two of which will go to the winning list at national level, while the remaining one will go to the best loser. Contrary to what some Members have said in this House, however, in counting the 340 seats on the winning list, the seats assigned to the same list will obviously have to be taken into account both in the one-member colleges of our region and in the two seats allocated... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u41	Please lower your voice, ladies and gentlemen: it is very difficult to follow those who are speaking.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u42	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). There is no problem, Madam President; I come from the House, where the buzz was always greater than here, so it does not bother me at all. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Okay, but it's an act of fairness. ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). These two seats allocated to the same list will have to be taken into account both in the one-member colleges and in the two seats allocated at circumscription level. There is therefore no double majority award, as was advocated in the debate here when the amendments were voted. Unfortunately, I must say, we have not managed to improve the situation for the Slovenian minority and therefore to lower the 20% threshold for the parties representing the linguistic minorities, which therefore remains the same. While for the German and Ladin linguistic minorities in the Autonomous Province of Bolzano the problem is solved in a certain way by the introduction of single-member colleges, it is virtually impossible for the Slovenian linguistic minority to win a seat in Parliament, partly because our amendment, which provided for the threshold not at regional level, but at college level, was not approved. However, at least the principle has been introduced that in the formation of one of the multi-name colleges of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region, account should be taken of the territory in which the Slovenian minorities reside. I conclude by thanking Minister Boschi and Undersecretary Pizzetti for their great sensitivity towards us and announcing the Group's support for the MAIE-PSI Autonomies. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u45	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senators of the Left Ecology and Freedom and of the Mixed Group will vote proudly against this electoral law, on the substance and on the matter which has been imposed with arrogance and in open violation of the last paragraph of Article 72 of the Constitution, which expressly prescribes that the electoral law be passed by normal procedure. It is exactly the opposite of what happened, for example, with the tricks and tricks of an amendment which, while not having any real regulatory scope, a Presidency enslaved to the diktats of the majority and the Government has made it admissible and which certainly had the function, as well as to cause 36,000 amendments to lapse and to prevent the oppositions to subemend it, to sanction the birth, even in this House, of the new majority of the Democratic Party and Forza Italia. It is not purely formal because in democracy and, above all, when it comes to electoral law, procedures are essential. And we come to the merit: we have called it "Porcellum 2," "vengeance". It is not a slogan; it is exactly so your Italicum. Parliament had to wait for the decision of the Council to intervene. The citizens' push was worth nothing: 1,200,000 signatures that signed our referendum for the repeal of the Porcellum, with the request to finally be able to count on the choice of their representatives. It was a last act of hope on the part of the citizens and, indeed, despite the constitutional principles to which the Council referred (which states, Senator Maran, that the objectives of the stability of the parliamentary majority, although legitimately pursued, cannot under any circumstances determine a compression of the representative function of the Assembly, as well as of the equal right to vote, excessive and such as to result in a profound alteration of the composition of democratic representation, on which the whole architecture of the constitutional order is based.) Instead, in violation of Article 1 of our Constitution on People's Sovereignty, Article 3 on the principle of equality, Article 48 on the freedom and equality of voting. In fact, you have accentuated its scope with the combination of current constitutional reforms. To the crisis of confidence of citizens in parliamentary institutions and, therefore, in representative democracy itself, to the vertical collapse of participation in the vote, to the plebiscite tendencies that are also deeply affecting our system and to the loss of power of national parliaments in favour of decision-makers not only supranational but of a technical-economic oligarchy it would have been necessary to respond with more democracy, more power than citizens, the only instrument to revive our democratic system; and instead, we choose the opposite path. We repeated this in vain during the discussion of constitutional reforms. In the complex debate and also in the many of our amendments, we have perhaps naively thought that in order to respond to the crisis of representative democracy, all the instruments of participation must be put in hand and expanded and our democratic system revived. You have preferred to respond to the detachment from politics by releasing more and more power from the consensus of the majority. In fact, the government becomes the expression of an increasingly small minority, a government without a people. The need for mediation of representative democracy, which is also done of slowness, contrasts the speed and the new as values itself post-political. And so we are moving towards overcoming the facts of parliamentary democracy. On the other hand, you have done the evidence both in the debate on constitutional reform and in the way in which the debate and the process of electoral law took place. In fact, we are moving towards a model related to the investiture democracy, in which the people are left only the opportunity to invest in a Premier, in a leader. Therefore, we are starting a process of increasing verticalization, strengthening towards the Executive, a kind of strong premiered. This is not done through constitutional changes, which would have given us the opportunity, as always happens when we move to a direct election, to introduce weights and counterweights. It occurs surreptitiously, through ordinary law; through the simple electoral law when once again it is forced towards the indication of the head of political force and of the Premier, and even more with the ballot. Thus, the mayor of Italy, through the majority prize (whose unreasonableness, as indicated by the Consulta, will be produced through the ballot), will become in a surreptitious way precisely the Premier indicated directly. On the other hand, in the same debate these days and even now in the explanations of vote, President, this echoed: a confrontation between leaders in the ballot; a ballot that, from this point of view, will produce paradoxical results. We have mentioned some of them (we always give the same examples), but that is the point. Although the threshold has risen to 40 percent, the majority prize will still be awarded, because with the ballot this power of the prize could be further multiplied. They could go to the ballot one force that took 38 percent of the votes and the other one that took 20. You can produce the result that the strength that got 20 percent wins the ballot. Therefore, the number of seats allocated with the majority prize would be even twice as high as the number obtained with the direct choice of citizens. You will then have this kind of result: this Premier, this leader chosen through the ballot will have a huge power, even though he is in the minority. In fact, in conjunction with constitutional reform, we will face the fact that we will have a Senate composed of nominations and a House in which the party that won the majority prize, indeed, the leader of that party will have a huge power. Let us think of the election of the President of the Republic and of the guarantee bodies. Even more so, in this very combination of constitutional reform, we will actually face a real emptying of the democratic system, of parliamentary democracy, as we have known it. We must not be afraid of the formalism of words: in fact this is the case, because the result of this Italicum and of that reform is what it will actually produce. We will find ourselves with an indication, with regard to the elected, by the citizens who will in fact be, once again a confirmation of the blocked lists. It is not true that the Consultative Committee has indicated the escamotage of the short lists in order to overcome the problem of non-indication, of the non-choice of citizens. That's a choice you made. The result today is that only the party that will win the majority prize will have, in addition to the blocked ones, elected even with preferences. All the other parties (also forces of a not indifferent consistency, from 20 percent down) will have only and only blocked candidates. Not only that, but with multiple candidates, the power of party secretaries will be even stronger. Even in the choices of option will be confirmed a choice all top and top. On the other hand - we saw it when you made the choice to hand over the Senate, now residual and with very few functions, to a choice of nominations from the political class - you obviously preferred to start to move towards a sort of overcoming of direct election by citizens. This has already produced its failures: let's think of the shameful page that was written with the election of the Provinces. So in the end we will have a prevalence and we could even have two thirds of the House, not to mention the Senate, made up entirely of nominations. Not to mention gender equality. You have tried to adjust 60% and 40%, but the combined arrangement of blocked capilists and the non-fixing of effective gender equality will once again produce a presence of women in Parliament certainly far from 50%. With these mechanisms you have distorted the mechanism of representation and pluralism has in fact been reduced to a forum right. Once again, those who have decided (the Government) to impose this electoral law have fallen into the eternal Italian vice of writing the electoral rules thinking only of their own advantage, calculated on the basis of the current situation, as recorded by the polls, but - I say to Minister Boschi - week after week are increasingly less favorable to Renzi. It is always an incorrect and very often short-sighted operation. Today you impose a law that ultimately reduces pluralism to little more than a mere formal rule, gives almost absolute power to the relative majority party and relegates opposition to the narrow borders of the right to stand. You do this because the polls tell you that today the President-in-Office's party would get that majority and do not think that things in today's politics change very quickly and that voters are very attentive to those who promise to overcome the crisis and still produce a disastrous situation, from a social point of view, for the country, for the citizens and for the weakest. It happens that parties like the Greek Pasok pass in five years from 43.9 percent to 4.68%, President Calderoli (5 percent took the KKE). The wind changes very quickly in Italy and today's Europe. You are accustomed, the President of the Council and also you, Mrs. Minister, to attend Forte dei Marmi and Marina di Pietrasanta, and you are accustomed to libeccio; you do not know or do not think that the Greek can arrive. The law you have sewn today as a tailor on the measures of a party alone could force that party tomorrow to settle for the right to stand. And that's what we hope for and that probably could happen very quickly. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u48	Mr Quegliariello (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the passing of the electoral law to the Senate at second reading is also an opportunity to take stock of the great reform that is taking place in the work of this legislature. We find ourselves at a time when on a table (at this moment in the House) we are discussing the reform of bicameralism and the form of the state. The two issues are connected because if this reform goes in the right direction we will be able to repair the failures caused by the reform of Title V of 2001, bringing back to the central state what is the responsibility of the central state, without giving in to the fashion that now wants a radical and absolute reversal of the tendency on regionalism. On another table, i.e. in this House, we have been discussing electoral law and the form of government these days, because a double-round electoral law has the effect of direct election of the President of the Council and therefore also affects the form of government. As you know, Madam President, we would have preferred the debate on these fundamental chapters of our institutional architecture to be held in a forum that could guarantee an organic intervention and that the overall design could be taken into account. We believe that the form of state, form of government, bicameralism and electoral law must be coherent chapters within the framework of a reconsideration of our fundamental Charter. This has not been the case, and this implies on our part the confirmation of two methodological aspects that we have always had present, also in the discussion of this reform. First of all, there is a need to have a vision of the whole. Where a coordinated discussion is not possible, it is necessary at least to adopt an organic view and to know how the various parts of the whole interact with each other. On the other hand, this necessity must also take into account a precept in the light of which we have inaugurated this parliamentary term: the conviction that the reforms should be done together this time and that, therefore, no one had the possibility on any of the chapters under discussion, to claim to assert exclusively his own point of view. In the light of this framework and these methodological beliefs, we are satisfied with the work done in this House. Compared to how the law came to us from the Chamber of Deputies, we can say that today the hypothesis of a new electoral system has changed towards. I would like to remind myself and all my colleagues that the initial text, Italicum 1, was based on compulsory de facto coalitions and provided for three thresholds to make them such: 4.5% within the coalition, 12% in order to form another coalition, and 8% in the event that we stand alone. In addition, it provided for the second round to be useless if the threshold of 37 percent had been reached. Finally, it provided for short but blocked lists, excluding any choice to the electoral body, as well as the chance for the allocation of the so-called surplus seats, which would have taken place without any rationality and without taking into account the internal ranking of the parties taking advantage of the surplus seats. Well, in the face of this plant, we are discussing something else today. The new law is no longer based on compulsory coalitions but on parties; it provides for a single threshold of 3%, in some way balancing the need for governability and that of representation; it provides that, in order to avoid the second round, from 37 per cent we must move to 40 per cent; it introduces preferences, except for blocked capitalists, and the possibility of multi candidatures up to 10, which allow the parties in turn to give the voters a greater choice. Finally, it puts order and rationality in the allocation of so-called surplus seats. In short, we are faced with another pattern. I would also like to point out that the safeguard clause, which brings the law into force in July 2016, is a test of seriousness and also a bet that the majority, together with the forces that support the reform, has done with itself: to close the reform plan for that date and then to put the reform of bicameralism into line with the reform of the electoral law. Madam President, does this mean that the law we are adopting is perfect? That we are fully satisfied? I'll tell you frankly, "no." And it could not be otherwise, if it is true that reforms are made together and that it is necessary, with an empirical method, to try to achieve the best result by making every hairpin a step forward. In particular, there are two aspects that do not convince us at all. We said we wanted a law based on parties and not coalitions. We confirm this, but it seems to us that this law removes the minimum of elasticity that it is necessary to keep always in mind, because when a law is too rigid the institutional orthopedia becomes too strict. A law that includes non-compulsory coalitions, as it was in Italicum 1 and as it was in fact in the material Constitution of the so-called Second Republic - a law that provides for the possibility of voluntary coalitions - would therefore be desirable and probably preferable. In the same way, we have won a right of choice for the elector and we want to try to expand it, because certainly there are better solutions than that of the so-called blocked capilists, which creates above all a strong difference between the big and the small parties where, in theory, the elector might also be in a position to choose nothing. These are issues on which we will deepen the discussion. Just as we believe it is necessary to deepen the aspects that can connect the two tables on which the great reform is being discussed so that form of State, form of Government, electoral law and bicameralism can compose a coherent design. From this point of view, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to consider a law implementing Article 49 of the Constitution. If it is true that this law is based on parties, we cannot continue to allow parties to have no regulation. In this respect, the amendment adopted in this House, which obliges us to hand over the statute, must be taken as a sign - which certainly can be improved, given that in fact, in addition to the parties, the protagonists of this law will be the lists - that we do not want to drop. That is why we intend to present a law implementing Article 49, which also deals with a review of policy costs. In the same way, special attention should be paid to Parliament's regulations in order to create an absolutely necessary link. Madam President, it is precisely this obligation of vision, this awareness of being in the middle of the ford that leads us, on the eve of a fundamental deadline for our country, to hope that the Quirinale can be elected a person who, in full respect of the autonomy and the work of Parliament, does not lose that thread of reform that is the real bet of this legislature and can continue the work that President Napolitano has so well assured. It is with this hope, Madam President, that we will vote in favour of the law under discussion. [[Applause from the AP groups (NCD-UDC) and LN-Aut.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u51	MORRA (M5S). Colleagues, I would like to point out a fact which tells you all about the little importance that this House is giving to the debate, namely the very little participation, even numerically, of colleagues in the debate in this House. All this decades ago would not have happened, Minister: an electoral law is a law that in fact has always pre-constituted the cages within which the democratic life of the country and Parliament can be carried out in the future. I imagine that in the fifties and sixties, but also more recently, a debate on electoral law would certainly have involved the utmost attention from Zangheri or Pajetta or Nenni or from all we can and must remember because they were the authors of choices for which we are here today. Yet today we are experiencing the debate with great distraction and disaffection. A senator told me and a friend of the Group that during the discussion of the so-called scam law in 1953 he touched the physical fight, they did damage to the benches, precisely because it was believed that the law should be born from a shared spirit and, although that law, called at the time "truffa", awarded a prize of governability or majority only and only to those who anyway obtained the absolute majority of the votes expressed, today we go to - probably - adopt a law that will be decidedly much more cheaty without there being, by those who consider themselves heirs of a certain tradition, a minimum whisper of conscience and pride so that this does not happen. Why can this happen, ladies and gentlemen? Why can this happen, Minister? Simply because it is the idea of democracy that has changed in the imagination of many political forces. Now, democracy, for what we in the Movement support, can only be inclusion, participation and sharing, and therefore it is bad for all political forces, no matter how much one may win, in the same competitions, record abstention rates so burning and so dramatic as those that many have now resigned to note. There are people here who are happy to win, no matter how much they win, with 37 or 42 percent of voters. This only removes citizens from the institutions and if the citizens are distant from the institutions, if they do not live with participation in the institutions, why should the State exist? Can you tell me what your ratio is to the effort that we all have to support to accept the authority of the state? The authority of the State, in fact, is recognized and accepted if the State is recognized as a legitimate social function. And this social function is no longer felt, because our State is no longer involved, because the electoral law is no longer intended as an instrument of representation, but as an instrument with which the other, which is, however, a priori, an enemy, must simply be brought back to more meek advice. The other does not listen to him; the other does not make him worthy of attention, because the other forces you to reason on the possibility of diversity. But this is democracy. Democracy is peitho, that is, persuasion, patience: patience with which we try to get right through conviction; conviction, on the other hand, in these parliamentary phases, has been achieved not by the force of arguments, but by the force of mendation. I would remind you that in the first days of August, in order to avoid a massacre (which, however, the Rules of Procedure provided for), namely the discussion, illustration and vote on thousands of amendments proposed by the Misto-SEL Group, the threshold for access to Parliament was allowed to be reduced. Just as, lately, with the presentation of more than 44,000 amendments by the League - and this also suggests that this presentation has been, perhaps, intentional - it has been achieved, even if with the game of the famous "kangaroo," made possible by the Esposito amendment, that however the times of the debate were further harmonized (not to say quota), precisely in spite of the parliamentary debate, because this does not interest anyone. In the end, it was allowed, precisely the League and with the acceptance of the Italian Force itself, to be able to obtain what Matteo Renzi wanted for more time, namely that the majority prize was not paid to the coalition, but to the list. Now, Mr Calderoli nicely said that Matteo Salvini put the arrow in. But I believe that this arrow will last very little. I would remind you that these are years when electoral mobility in some countries of southern Europe is particularly marked. Before he remembered the incredible end of Pasok, but I also want to remember the equally unlikely electoral acceleration of Tsipras and Syriza, of which everyone today discovers allies and friends. This is also fun, because it is Italian costume - and I certainly don't support it - the propensity to get on the cart of the winner: after having opposed and mocked him, now they all discover friends of the Greek leader. And only a few days ago, those who profess eternal friendship with him today did the same with Angela Merkel, who is considered the number one enemy of the Greek people. This electoral law has come to the debate in this House through a frankly shameful process, not to say ridiculous. We have never actually had the opportunity to reason on important issues, either in the Commission or in this House, precisely because the debate wanted to avoid it, we wanted to evaporate it. And when, with some amendments, especially the so-called PD minority, some colleagues had tried, from their most respectable point of view, to propose a corrective, an improvement, they also had paradoxical results. I recall the remarks made in this House by Senator Ricchiuti, who recalled how a text, proposed as an amendment, was rejected, and then accepted by the Government when it became simply an agenda: demonstrating how hypocrisy, not to say schizophrenia, sovereign kingdoms. But let us remember what an electoral law is for, because electoral laws are not perfect, but rather must be thought according to the cultural and civil traditions of the people who will then be called to vote. The electoral laws, which are never perfect, must serve to guarantee those who have an idea of democracy for which inclusiveness, participation and openness are key values. The electoral law must be marked by the criterion of research as much as possible of representation, but it does not become anything else and can allow - for example - the so-called position rents or, worse than worse, can guarantee transhumance. In this House, in fact, they see Members who, in their time, during the last parliamentary term, have been the subject of attack, ridicule and derision because, during very important parliamentary votes, they have decided, in accordance with the provisions of Rule 67, to move from one front to another, operating the so-called waltz tour. I would remind the whole House that in this parliamentary term, which is not even a second year, the number of Members who have already changed shirts has exceeded the number of Members who have done the same in the last parliamentary term. And this is true for all the formations spoken up. And we should also, and above all, think about what it means to represent. Now, Parliament, for our Constitution, should have the so-called legislative function. And I would always ask you to remember that we reason for the famous combined arrangement that is being carried out with the approval of the electoral law and constitutional reform. But this function has been snatched and taken over by the Executive for decades. And who can somehow avoid this? Exactly that figure which, institutionally and constitutionally, is endowed with the power not to promulgate the laws, provided that all in compliance with the current Constitution. And this figure is precisely that of the President of the Republic: expression for too many years and too many decades of party-cratic classes that have decided only, in a self-referential way, to reproduce themselves through mechanisms that have corrupted, always and only, any electoral law. So you, of the preference (with which at least the elector can decide), of representation, of multiple candidatures, do not care highly, because the electoral law you think simply to perpetuate places, and places particularly expensive for the whole community. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would like - for example - that, in the context of constitutional reforms, reasoning on the costs of constitutional bodies, we should have a parameter as a reference: let us return to the birth of our Republic and ask all parliamentarians to return to earn exactly the same relationship with which a parliamentarians earned compared to an Italian worker in 1946. But that was another Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , because it had another dignity: the dignity of those who had endured a grave sacrifice, that of a war that had been lost for a politically disastrous choice, for a politically disastrous dictatorship. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You, now, this memory, which your President-in-Office of the Council says he wants to celebrate also and especially today, Memory Day, rather than celebrating it you are massacred and mocking, simply because memory is the constitutive of identity. Whoever has an identity does not sell out [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Those who, on the other hand, have no memory continue to sell themselves from morning to evening and from evening to morning. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u54	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what we are writing today is a fundamental page of the new institutional structure: we are writing it to the House, where the formal Constitution is being reformed in these hours; and we are writing it here in the Senate, amending, in fact, the material Constitution. With the electoral law that we are voting today, re-appropriated after the decision of the Parliamentary Sovereignty Council on a key issue of democracy, we redesign a new balance of powers: a stronger Executive, a leaner Parliament in its joints and faster in its decisions, and a new Head of State as a guarantee. Madam President, Europe is tired: it is difficult to stem the fanaticism of a religion that, by mistaking the precepts of sacred texts, threatens the West with suicide attacks and the beheading of hostages. It is called into question from within by a breach that makes the turris eburnea of economic rigor falter: a flaw on the left, unfortunately, and not that crack, that liberal turning point that could bring new vigour to economic and industrial growth. Yesterday the new Greek premier Alexis Tsipras, in his first words after the election results, quoted three times the overcoming of austerity as the cornerstone of his political proposal: enough for this Europe of the troika, oppression and compulsion. More than an analysis, it is a judgment, which gives a hard blow to the Brussels Eurocracy, which we first, with the Berlusconi Government, the last democratically elected, have fought hard, alone. Peremptory, and also effective in its simplicity, is the position of the new Greek leader towards the European institutions. Just yesterday, in an Italian newspaper, his economic advisor, said: Incoming money only pays interest. They won't give them to us? Worse for creditors. Too bad that, among the major creditors, there is also Italy for 40 billion euros. Madam President, this is the context in which we are called upon to give our country balanced, sound and efficient institutions. We need new instruments that will enable rapid decisions, without losing anything of the essence, of the values, of the spirit of democracy; instruments that will enable us to effectively address the important challenges that arise. We, in opposition, together with the majority, are changing the institutional structure, the governance of the country. Even with the limits of mediation between political forces even very different, as it is mandatory to do when writing new rules, we are taking Italy out of the 19th century marshes of an extreme and unreasonable representativeness, slowness and indecision, the right to veto irrelevant parties and the impossibility of governing. We're drawing the Republican institutions of the 21st century. The model of democracy that we propose is clear and it is the objective that Silvio Berlusconi had in mind when he founded Forza Italia in 1994. Here, today, that objective is strongly vindicated: a bipolarism that is increasingly approaching a true bipartitism on the American model; a slender democracy that has the capacity to decide and to take the responsibilities of its own decisions, on the basis of a clear choice of voters. I want to say this especially to those who see in these reforms only a downward compromise and to those who are still perched in an obtuse opposition. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] What has happened, and is happening, with the process of reform is not a major change. Forza Italia is and remains convinced of the opposition of policies that we consider totally inadequate to bring the country out of the crisis. And beyond the optimism of the facade, the easy slogans that the Government is usually manifesting, all economic indicators continue to be of negative sign. It is not enough to show the beauties of Florence to Frau Merkel in order to impose on Europe that change that only the tenacity of Mario Draghi and the fear of Greek contagion - and certainly not the initiative of the Italian Government - are perhaps slowly setting in motion. It is not enough to call by an English name the reform of the labour market to hide the vacuum of content and the completely possible character of the few innovations it contains. It is not enough to make propaganda moves like 80 euros, when Italians pay more taxes than before. We will never be able to share or support these policies. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Madam President, with regard to the material Constitution, just as it has been consolidated in recent years - I want to say it firmly and without hypocrisies - in the face of a stronger government and a single-chamber parliament with certain times of approval of the laws for the benefit of the Executive, the balance of powers requires the restoration of the role of the President of the Republic designed by the constituent Fathers: a high profile figure and an indisputable guarantee for all political forces; a President guarantor of all, a President who is a firm and impartial referee; a President, if possible, elected by a wide range of political forces, and not by chance - and well done in these hours - the House has decided to raise to the three fifths the quorum for the election of Parliament in common session. Madam President, one of the two protagonists of the reform process is missing in this House today: Silvio Berlusconi is missing. It is not because an unworthy decision by this House has deprived it of the right to lead the opposition in Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]] CIOFFI (M5S). That's good. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Despite this, Berlusconi made possible the path of these reforms, because a statesman knows how to look beyond the contingency, however serious, when the future of the country is at stake. A little over a year ago Italian politics experienced an epochal turning point. At last the two leaders of the major Italian parties have swept away the prejudices that, for 20 years, have blocked Italian politics. Today we are taking another decisive step: let us now change the instruments on which our democracy is founded. We change them thanks to a compromise, a noble compromise, just like the one that led the Constituent to draw up a text, especially in the first part concerning fundamental rights, which much of the world still envy us today. Forza Italia has been constantly searching for possible mediations in the interest of the country. Forza Italia is now part of the best tradition of Italian reformism. If I look at this House, I see, on the one hand, the party that expresses the President-in-Office of the Council split up and split up on its own reforms and, on the other hand, an unnecessary opposition that is limited to the harsh and, at times, fierce opposition. I would like, therefore, to conclude with a thank you: thanks to the Senators of Forza Italia, whom I honour to represent, who today, like August 8, will vote yes to a courageous reform that, with great commitment and a sense of responsibility, have helped to improve. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u57	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, soon, with our vote, we will conclude a long debate, very rich in arguments and sometimes even rough. I, like Senator Romani, will begin with what he called "the context." Five days ago, the ECB of Mario Draghi, committing itself to intervene for more than €1,100 billion, launched a new monetary policy, which will help Europe and Italy to emerge from the severe recession that has been impoverishing us very brutally for at least seven years. And in the intervention of the ECB I see not only a monetary measure, but also a strong sign, very significant, in the direction of greater economic and political unity in Europe. The common front against ISIS and terrorism, the intervention of the ECB, the expectation of 2% inflation, Juncker's investment plan, the reduction of the price of oil and the spread on our debt, the expansionary phase of the American economy and also the strong push for the development of many European peoples are all elements that can make us think of a progressive exit from the tunnel. We must, therefore, ask ourselves whether Italy has really done everything it had to do to get ready for the appointment with the recovery: unfortunately that is not the case. Although Italy and Italian citizens, especially young people, have made unheard of sacrifices in recent years and the long process of reform has already begun, it is still a long way from being a modern, just and efficient democracy. This is the framework from which comes the urgency of a new electoral law, which collects the indications of the Constitutional Court and helps Italy to abandon the condition of democratic impotence in favour of the democracy of the decision, as Senator Tonini reminded us in general discussion. I followed very closely the debate that accompanied the work of the electoral law, to which the Democratic Party Group in the Senate will shortly be voting. I have heard convergent voices and others, in fewer numbers, differing. Ever since the first Republican legislature, every time Parliament faced the electoral node, the debate has been very intense, lively and often harsh. This time, if anything, various opinions have appeared within the same parliamentary groups of the Senate, and also in my own, reaching the dissent of the vote in the Chamber, in forms and to an unusual extent in the voting of electoral laws of the past and also in relation to the vote of the Chamber of Deputies. As far as my Group is concerned, there has never been a lack of genuine solicitation, which I am renewing even now, in the search for the highest level of political unity on a radically improved measure, as we all know, compared to the text we had received. In fact, I was struck by the limited claim of what, for the Senate and in particular for the senators of the PD, was the significant political victory due to the improvements made to the law. Keeping the possibility of the second round of the ballot intact, we raised the threshold for the first round of governability to 40% and, consequently, we reduced the threshold for the admission of lists to Parliament to 3%, thus achieving stability for governments, greater legislative efficiency and more representation for all parties. We have planned the list award to discourage artificial coalitions, which are fatally destined to divide, but of course maintaining the possibility of government alliances with the winning party to be tightened after the vote. Compared to the first reading, we have strengthened the gender alternation, confirming a line that PD now expresses and practices in every possible circumstance. On the other hand, on the selection of candidates, we were unable to identify a parliamentary majority around the solution on which the PD had almost unanimity: the majority single-member college. On this point, even understandably, the PD is in the minority in Parliament. We are, in fact, the only party with a structure able to compete, with good chances, with its candidates in single-member colleges throughout the national territory. It is for these reasons, and only on this point, that we had to give up our position, but we had to do so if we wanted to have a law approved that Italy urgently needs. For too long and too many times we have been discussing formulas without taking into account their parliamentary feasibility, but when we are looking for a solution in Parliament, it is always necessary to indicate by which majority we can pursue it. The text that the Senate received from the House of Deputies provided for blocked lists. Although the PD Group did not agree with this solution, it was also voted in the House almost unanimously. Today we have a very different and far better mixed formula: a part of the elected will be chosen with preferences and a part with the method of blocking the leader; this last one fully recognizable since its only name will be printed on the card, as in the case of the college candidate. What do you mean? It means that the voter will not put a cross on the symbol of the list without knowing who is voting, but having clear awareness of the choice of both the party and the person who is helping to elect. In political and constitutional terms, the key point of the Court's ruling is the recognition of the candidate and it is a point that the new law absolutely respects. In our debate I did not hear any particular disagreements about the choice of the mixed method. The most important concerns have been raised about the numerical relationship between capilist and elected with preferences in small parties, since for the party that will win the elections the problem does not arise. On this point I have read many estimates, drawn up necessarily on abstract scenarios and not able to give us certain results. There is a good research by Professor D'Alimonte who, at the point of pure theory, comes to the conclusion that the total number of elected by blocked vote can range from a minimum of 30 percent to a maximum of 60 percent. It is a very wide range, from which it is clear that it is impossible to determine a priori what the percentages of the elected will actually be with the blocked vote and the preferred vote, and this is an observation to be taken into account. For the first time, after many negative years, today we can say that we can see the first glimpses of exit from the economic crisis. It is these circumstances and prospects that must lead us to increase our efforts to complete those reforms that we have been saying for decades that we want to do, but which we have only now begun to implement. If Italy is not ready, if our public system is not radically renewed, all the effort and courage of the ECB and Draghi will have been useless. The deep crisis of the state is the first reason for our troubles. Europe can help us, but the rules of the euro area still provide that much of the prosperity of individual countries depends on the ability to use all national instruments and the speed and effectiveness with which their public structures are able to resolve their internal crises. That is the point that we must understand and deal with with with clarity and determination. Without a good electoral law, without overcoming the bicameralism of equality, without new parliamentary regulations, without a serious revision of the relations between the State and the Regions, without a public administration of quality, Italy has no chance to do its part to get out of the deadly trap of the crisis. One more code, Madam President. Days ago the Senate unanimously approved, and with deep conviction, an amendment by Senator Sposetti. The amendment, which is now an integral part of the text of the measure, requires the admission of the lists of candidates to be subject to the presentation of the statutes of the parties. I want to stress the deep meaning of this rule. Parliament's life is linked: I would say that it depends on the democratic quality of political parties and parliamentary groups. Therefore, if we want Parliament to function and to be able to take the decisions that are needed by the country, and to do so as quickly as the problems require; if we want all of this, then let us question the scope of the amendment that we have voted unanimously. In that rule there is a reference to the parliamentary role of political parties and there is an indication of the need for them to be able to discuss within them and to decide by democratic means also within the parliamentary groups. The draft law we are about to adopt will produce the very important consequence of strengthening the role of political parties. If the internal organization of the parties is well regulated by open and democratic statutes, our Republic and our political system will know seasons of great civil, economic and institutional development. [[Applause from the PD and SCPI groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u59	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u60	MINZOLINI (FI-PdL XVII). I am not voting for an electoral law which I consider to be wrong, as is the wrong constitutional reform that accompanies it, which I did not vote for. I do not vote for it in the meantime because of the way in which this bill is adopted: a long list of strings which have upset not only the procedures of this House, but also the style. The Esposito amendment has transformed the debate that took place here into a parliamentary caricature. Secondly, I will not vote for it for its content. The Premier's party, I don't say 20 years ago, but much less (not even a lustre has passed), still came to the streets shouting that the Constitution is not touched, fearing an authoritarian turning point against the reform of the center-right. As is often the case, the neophytes of stability, governability and primacy of the Commission have done much worse than the reform proposed by the centre-right. A perverse mechanism has been created, so the Palace is even further away from the country. We are no longer voting: we are not voting for the Provinces, which are still there; we are not voting for the metropolitan cities; we are not voting for the Senate either, since the new senators will be delegated by the regional councillors. Above all, citizens will count less. This law, in fact, creates a lack of representation. On the Charter, since the list has been awarded, a party can only take 35% of the votes in the second round and win 55% of the representatives in Parliament. Be careful: 35% not of 100% of Italian citizens, but of that 55% that, according to the polls, would vote. It is a system, therefore, that has a huge lack of representation, but that, at the same time, assigns a huge power to the leader of the party who wins the prize; it assigns him a role of dominus that, in this country, has never had anyone. To think about it, it would have been better - much better - to introduce a presidential system. The President, at least, would have a greater legitimacy than that of a party secretary, but, above all, he would be forced to have a dialectical relationship with a Parliament that could have a different majority, such as Obama now. Instead, in the new system there is no area in which the dominus would be forced to a dialectical relationship with someone, since it adds together (Renzi is proof of this) the role of Premier and party secretary, who is guaranteed to govern without the need of a coalition. The scheme is simple: the leader as secretary dominates the party, as Premier dominates the Parliament and has the opportunity to choose the Head of State and most of the judges of the Council he wants. The only comparison I find appropriate for such a system is what was in force in the Soviet Union: good luck. Vote for those who are happy. I'll be out of the Chamber. One last point I would like to make to my colleagues in the Group. The Nazarene covenant has been changed seventeen times. You've had the double shift, the list prize, and so many other things you didn't want. There remained the most questionable norm, the leader blocked; almost nothing. Why do you vote for this electoral law? Because, as the pact provides, hope to share with Renzi a President of the moderate Republic. But, to see this electoral law, if it gives me so much, I'm afraid that the pact was written on the water.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u62	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u63	MINEO (PD). Madam President, not with my vote will this law be passed, because it will reduce the political elections to the competition between some party leaders, to the conquest of a prize in the first round or, more likely, to the ballot, when the challenge between two alone will give the vote the obvious sign of a direct popular investiture, while the House will be composed of the chosen Premier and the defeated competitors, thanks to the blocked capilists. At least one hundred Members will be fished thanks to the award won by the chief and the remaining, selected with the preference of couple, will have less visibility and autonomy of the capilists, whose faces will be printed on the card. Without single-member colleges and with a low threshold, oppositions will tend to fragment. The Senate will not vote for trust and will count little in the choice of office of guarantee, for the disproportionate number (hundred versus six hundred thirty Members). Therefore, our Republic will no longer be parliamentary, but it will not resemble other ruling democracies either, because either they or the Premier receives the rulership prize from its members who have prevailed in the colleges - it is the case of Great Britain - or, as in France, if the head of the Executive is chosen by direct suffrage, the Parliament, which must control it, selects itself in the same way (unitary with double turn). At a meeting of the PD Group I told Renzi that no liberal democracy has such a law. Renzi caught it and now repeats that no one has it, but soon many will imitate us; he also proposed Italicum to Merkel. I do not believe that they will imitate us, because such a personalisation of national confrontation would turn the Union into a chicken coop, each speaking to the hens of the house; because the contestation of politics, which emerges everywhere, can be sewn up with mediation, legitimizing Parliament and not asking for a wider delegation, let alone handing over to those who govern power also over the offices of guarantee, as will happen by us. But with today's vote democracy does not end. The people of Paris have shown that our values (freedom, egalité and fraternité) live in the hearts and minds of many and Greece indicates how they can wipe out rooted taboos. And then an electoral law can be changed, ours is not the final vote. Therefore, in order to continue a partial and countercurrent battle, but which has also manifested itself within the Democratic Party, I will not give a vow of testimony, which today should be against Italicum, but together with others I will not participate in the vote, as those democratic senators who have already spoken against the scam amendment signed Esposito will do.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u65	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u66	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I declare my dissenting vote by my Group, with great bitterness and responsibility, on a written law with a caricature amendment (as has already been said). This is a law concerning the election of the members of the Chamber of Deputies, which the House of Deputies had only voted a few months ago and which we have completely changed and changed. I think that in this passage in the Senate Chamber there is almost nothing left of the position of Forza Italia expressed in the vote in the House. It remains, alas, the submission - to use a term today in vogue - to a law almost merchandise exchange on the altar of the election of the Head of State, and remains submission to a law scam - and this is even more serious - scam of the will of the Italians who, with different artifices, will see win the elections who in reality did not win them. What has always been done in the past to the detriment of the centre-right with various systems and instruments is now codified by law. To deny the coalition the prize means to deny forever - I hope not - the great and majority centre-right of the country the possibility of winning the elections, since the possibility of governing has already been prevented. You prevented it by voting on the fake and bad reform of the Senate, which will ensure the territorial representation of the centre-left, in all its forms, the vast majority of the members of this House. Finally, preferring the formula of the capilist condemns the parties that will not avail themselves of the majority prize, that is, that they will not obtain it, to a representation without rooting, completely disconnected from reality, from the territories and citizens: wandering people among the secretariats of the parties, people who will never be recognized by their voters again. It is that sacred pact between the elect and the elector that we definitively send to the attic by voting this law. So, among the many pacts we are talking about, I fear that the only one we will never hear of again is the pact between Italian citizens. I therefore announce my dissenting vote and my failure to take part in the vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u68	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u69	RICHIUTI (PD). Madam President, dear friends of my party, it is the owl that speaks to you. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Mixed Groups]] Not that I have more feathers than others; in Italian politics there are people who strut far more than I do. But since in my party - what eight months ago had over 40%, and which today has lost many voters on the street, which I continue to talk about - there is a majority (which is allowed to say everything and the opposite of everything) and then there are owls that say that GDP did not grow so much (in fact, it did not grow at all) and that jobs act is a crap, then this is my dissent on the electoral law. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-SEL Groups and Senators Bignami, Campanella, Mussini and De Pin.]] In 2010, at Leopolda, the first - the one Renzi did together with Pippo Civati - the future President of the Council stated that Italy was a sad country because it did not have a civil right. He said that the American right had Rubio; the Italian right had Ruby. That was a good joke. I applauded a lot. I am surprised, then, today, to see that with the Nazarene pact the majority of my party chooses the Ruby model and not the Rubio model. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-SEL Groups and Senators Bignami, Campanella, Mussini and De Pin]] The Ruby model is to deal secretly with Berlusconi and Verdini and produce this unwavering law. The Rubio model would have been back to the majority of college and set up an open system, contestable, where it counts the merit and where it affects the true thickness of the people. Marco Rubio - be it clear - is far from my ideas. He is a Republican, conservative, and is supported by the ideologies of inequality and resentment against Barack Obama. But in Rubio I recognize that I have made an open and transparent career and that I have challenged his own party to get the seat in the Senate, which Florida voters have entrusted to him. Guess how he did it? With something called a primary election, which Rubio won with his hands down. Today, Rubio, the son of Cuban immigrants, could also run for the presidency of the United States. I'm not rooting for him, but I'm rooting for his example. Instead, you chose Ruby's right: blocked capilists and proportional multi-name colleges. The exact opposite of what was needed, that is, one-name majority colleges where the voter chooses to vote for the candidate of that party or to vote against it, choosing the opponent. This was the case with the Mattarellum, which I and other senators proposed with amendments, and so it was restored in Valle d'Aosta and Trentino-Alto Adige, we can see that our fellow citizens of those regions are more fortunate. With Italicum, everyone places their chickens in the face of healthy democratic competition! For the next places, for which the preferences will be worth, the race moves inside the parties, to steal their preferences from each other. That's right: to steal-y-arsele! I will not take part in this vote, ladies and gentlemen. And not voting in the Senate is like voting against. I am opposed to what we have said so far and then because I see in the background the Party of the Nation, that confused molasses where the distinctions, the responsibilities and the contents disappear. But then let me ask you one last question: who is the owl here, who am I faithful to the Democratic Party or you who want the Party of the Nation? You vote for this law, which restores the Parliament of the nominations! [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut, Mixed-SEL and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u71	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u72	BRUNI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I too declare that I do not participate in the final vote for two fundamental reasons. On the substance, because of the shortcomings of the measure we have talked a lot about these days and that I want to repeat schematically and quickly. First of all, the unhealthy idea of voting has prevailed on the list that generates and favours surreptitious coalitions, fake aggregations that will lead, the day after the elections, to the breakdown of maxipartites that parties are not. I shall vote against, or rather, abstain from voting, because I am not convinced of the idea of the blocked leaders: only 240 seats allocated with preferences, thus producing a bad majority law that is the worst expression of much better laws such as those for the direct election of mayors or regional presidents. My dissent, by not participating in the vote, is also motivated by the method. I refer first of all to that Esposito amendment, which has been mentioned, which is a mockery of Parliament, an act of arrogance resulting from that exaltation of the self-referentiality of the Republic of Florence, which is a bit the dominant reason for the last parliamentary passages. That amendment - which, as we have said several times, was a disguised agenda - is the distinctive figure of this Government, which tries to prove that it is doing something when, in fact, it does not know how to do anything! The examples would be many. Let us think of the Provinces that have not been reformed, as well as the struggles and prejudices against the administrative courts, the superintendences or the tax delegation never implemented. I stop here, but I could cite many other examples of this advertising policy that translates into a mockery for Italians. I do not want to go further, because I have respect especially for Italian citizens, but this Government deserves all our dissent and our not participation in the vote. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u74	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u75	CHITI (PD). Madam President, for the second time, within a few months of this same parliamentary term, I must declare a dissenting vote by the parliamentary group of which I am a member. I will not take part in the final vote on the electoral law and, for those who have a formation, a story like mine, in a party like that to which I belong, is no small thing. However, there are two fundamental reasons why I should like to make this choice. The first is about the method, but in politics the choices of method, even more on issues such as these, are substance. The aim cannot always be invoked to justify the means when the power of Parliament and individual senators to intervene, discuss and vote on individual aspects of a bill is reduced. I find it incredible - and I say this with concern - the lightness that we see with reference to the rules, this forcing of the rules, a sort of collective loss of critical sense, prudence and measure that, I fear, because they constitute precedents, sooner or later will present us heavy accounts. Agendas such as those which become preclusive amendments of confrontation, deepening and decision on the various options in an electoral law have no precedent in the history of the Senate and - I believe - Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups.]] I do not live them as the product of ingenious cunning, but, I repeat, as a limitation to Parliament's function. I find it equally incomprehensible, I say this in general and I had already raised the issue in the last parliamentary term, that the quota of the times, which, moreover, is also applied to constitutional and electoral laws, is being transformed from an exception into a rule. I wonder where, in this case, the urgency that justified it was. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami.]] If the electoral law had been passed tomorrow or February 5th, what would have happened to the Italian nation or to our international relations or I don't know what else? I do not, of course, underestimate the irresponsibility of tens of thousands of amendments, on the contrary, I have openly denounced it, but I believe that they must be politically beaten and not taken as a shore to limit Parliament's tasks. The second point concerns merit. I acknowledge that the Senate text has improved with respect to the law voted in the House (otherwise I would do quite differently than not participating in the vote): the only threshold of 3% as a condition for entering Parliament, 40% on the list to access the majority prize without resorting to a second round of balloting, guaranteeing a fair gender balance. Recognizing this should also lead to two other considerations: the first is that then it is not true that all criticism and all solicitations are automatically a brake and an obstacle to reforms; it means that they are also contributions to be assessed that can improve and make a plan for renewing our democracy more coherent. The second: if there had not been those who fought and advanced these criticisms, today the most advanced answers that all have greeted favorably, even those who had never asked for them publicly, would not have been there. These are the things I want to stress. For me, Madam President, what remains a major deficit in the electoral law is the way Members are elected, which then means how the sovereignty of the people is expressed, the participation of the citizens, without which a democracy is consciously or not undermined by its most robust foundations. Neither I, nor other colleagues who shared these battles, have put forward a rigid or manifested proposal that there was no willingness to mediate, on the contrary, there was the renunciation of the single colleges and the double turn of college, the acceptance of preferences, the non-rigidness on a percentage (80, 75 or 70); we simply made efforts to ensure that a majority of Members, chosen preferences, were directly chosen and elected by the citizens. That's not the way it is. Is it possible - I ask you, Senator Quagliariello, who is an expert in these matters - that we should know after and not before, because we are insured in a law, how many Members will actually be chosen directly by the citizens? The only certainty we have is that they will not be a majority (30, 40 or 50 percent), even D'Alimonte claims that this component will be, at most, 50 percent. For these reasons, I would like to, but I cannot, in conscience, by my vote give the green light to a law that presents this deficit, because the sovereignty of citizens in democracy is entrusted to the Constitutions, to the electoral rules, to the laws, but not to the arbitrariness, to the convenience, to the changing availability of the parties. The use of multiple candidates, in relation to this aspect, is not a remedy, because the remedy is to write in law which is a majority of parliamentarians that citizens, in the only House that will be elected, can themselves, in their sovereignty, choose. For these reasons, I cannot take part in the adoption of this law with my vote. Madam President, I would ask you to allow me to give the full text of my explanation of vote. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u76	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u78	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u79	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a first thought is that of mourning which I wish to address to the democracy of our country. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]] A thought of heartfelt, solemn and even bitter words, determined by the sad awareness that neither the applause in this House nor the headlines in the newspapers that we will read tomorrow will be sufficient to conceal the identity of my colleagues - colleagues from various political groups - who in this House, in this and in the previous legislature, have supported with conviction the reasons for the return to preference by the people, thinking that the short circuit that has been determined so deeply between the square and the palace was repairable only through the return of the pen in the hands of the elector in order to be able to write their own candidate. That's not it, that's not it. This, of course, is incalculable damage to the democracy of the country. You see, ladies and gentlemen, it is not only a matter of merit, on which I will also make very brief flashes, but it is also a matter of timing and methods used for the adoption of this electoral law. I have the feeling, in fact, that, if they could, the Prime Minister and the Government would have put the question of trust also on the electoral law, in order to forcefully prevail the will. But, in fact, that is what will happen because, if we were honest with ourselves, we would now decree, with the approval of this law, the end of parliamentary democracy, in a reality in which, yesterday, the amendment on presidentialism was rejected. Therefore, we continue to give our democracy to a limbo, where there is no presidentialism, but where Parliament is marginalized and tight between votes of confidence and decrees-laws in which the possibility of expressing thought, in compliance with that principle of representation of the people which takes place in Parliament without mandate constraints, has absolutely no value at all. To this is added the series of elements that comfort my thinking and my conviction that a law is being passed with a sort of downward compromise, which not only causes incalculable damage to democracy, but also deeply hurts the plurality of thought and free competition; a competition in which we already know (if we go to see the history of the ANCI, which has been handed over to the left for twenty years) that the centre-right will no longer have the opportunity to be a majority, neither in the territories, nor in the classrooms of Parliament. In fact, if we were ever to win the Chamber (unfortunately it will be difficult), we would obtain the obstructionism of the Senate, to which we entrusted the weapons in order to keep under the tip of the knife the decisions of the Chamber. That is what we are doing: a downward compromise! I recover the words of my Parent Company for the part that I fully share, and I thank him for this: the dramatic memory of that 27 November 2013, when a coup took place, determined by the diktat of the newly installed party secretary, who determined the expulsion of our leader Silvio Berlusconi. [[Applause from Senator Bonfrisco]] Today we approve of a downward compromise in which, paradoxically, we not only hand over to the left the government of the country, but we also suffer the veiled irony - not even so veiled - of my colleague Ricchiuti in relation to the Ruby case and the position he has expressed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u80	Please conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u81	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). We reject these positions. These are the reasons why we do not trust this Government, precisely as we remember that political death sentence which was unmistakably pronounced in this House. We in our history claim identity consistently and loyally. For these reasons I declare my position of dissent and I also announce the release of my colleagues from Forza Italia who express themselves in dissent as a sign of protest and dissent, as did the PD in the last parliamentary term, leaving the Chamber when we presented the constitutional reform. A sign, that of the abandonment of the Chamber, which goes beyond the vote against. It is a sign of protest, and it is a sign that marks a difference and an act of respect for the Italian people and for what remains of the Constitution. (Some senators [[of the FI-PdL Group XVII leave the Chamber. Some of the Senators of the LN-Aut Group have piled up amendments on their benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u82	I would like to say to my colleagues in the League that I hope that all those issues are not too much in the balance, because we all hope that the situation will remain calm, as it has been so far, since this is a civil confrontation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u84	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u85	Mr Gotor (PD). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak in dissent from my party, announcing, on behalf of a group of senators of different sensibilities, our intention not to participate in the vote. We thus express our disagreement with a point of merit, the selection of new Members, who we consider to be fundamental and direct, as well as principles such as governability and representation. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u86	Colleagues, I invite you to lower the tone of your conversations so that Mr Gotor can continue his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u87	Mr Gotor (PD). I repeat, like principles such as the governability and representation that this law also guarantees, after being improved in the course of the parliamentary debate, also thanks to our contribution. The next Parliament, after ten years of Porcellum, will continue to be by a majority of nominations. We have missed the opportunity to give electoral citizens the opportunity to choose their representatives directly, forgetting that the right to vote is the greatest expression of the sovereignty of the people. There was plenty of room to find a different solution, starting with the unity of the Democratic Party and the majority, but it was not even sought. The dialogue with the opposition is right, but it is defined from its own party, not granting on a fundamental point such as this two veto rights to the opponent, i.e. against the single-member colleges and in favour of a Parliament of nominations. Perhaps the Italians haven't understood it yet, but with the new law, if a party puts as a leader blocked an entrepreneurial candidate (for example, Gambadilegno), it is true that at college level the citizen may not vote for it, choosing a competing list, but since the majority prize will be distributed on a national basis, if that party wins it, Gambadilegno will find the same in Parliament, with good peace of the will of that citizen. This law, in fact, offers only a simulacrum of the two main principles that qualify a single-name competition: on the one hand, the privileged relationship with the territory, because it defines colleges of 600,000 inhabitants, four times larger than the Mattarellum; on the other hand, it denies an authentic and virtuous competition inside-out, at the level of the college, in that it brings back from the door what the elector, with his free vote, would have wanted to throw out of the window. Let it be clear, as we have said, we are not against the principle that a quota of parliamentarians should be appointed from above, in order to promote the involvement of civil society and enrichment in Parliament, but the proportion should be reversed with respect to the majority established by Italicum. Several amendments, such as that of Senator Fornaro or mine, offered reasonable solutions and mediation thanks to the use, in compliance with the 1991 referendum, of double gender preference and the definition of short lists that would avoid new risks of unconstitutionality from several sides raised. We believe it was a mistake not even to grant the prior union of constitutionality to the electoral law, a simple step that could have avoided the repetition of humiliating experiences for the credibility of the institutions, such as the one lived by Porcellum. Evidently, the inspirers of this law are already aware of the risk of constitutionality it contains: an irresponsible attitude and not up to the preventive observance of the rules and the Constitution, which should be the polar star of a party like the Democratic Party. Politics must respond to the crisis of relations between citizens and institutions, not by continuing to lock itself in a fort, but by returning the sceptre of choice directly to the citizens, focusing on their participation and on their accountability. This is all the more necessary in the light of the reform of the perfect bicameralism that we are working on and that must continue, at the end of which we will have only one political chamber with a single trust relationship with the government and a Senate of the autonomouss composed of second-degree elected. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish your speech, Senator Gotor. Mr Gotor (PD). I'm gonna finish. It must no longer be possible for a citizen to say to a Member of the Republic: you must do so, that is to obey, because you have been appointed. This kind of alibi, with an illiberal and authoritarian fund, must end, because it helps to nourish anti-politics, hurts the dignity of Parliament and increases the degradation of our democracy. For these reasons, in full respect of a party and a group to which we are honored to belong, we reluctantly announce that we do not participate in the vote. And with this spirit we deliver the witness [[Comments of Senator Crimes]] of our commitment these days to the House of Deputies, in the hope that it can gather it, in the best interest of Italian democracy. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u88	I'm asking for dissent from my group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u89	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u90	D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). Madam President, I disagree with my Parent Company, which, on behalf of the LAG Group, announced that part of us voted against. On the other hand, we felt that we should be consistent with the behaviour of those who did not participate in the vote, not because we do not like this law, but because - let me say this - many of us live a drama in the drama: the drama of not wanting to vote on a law that, in our opinion, is a blunder through which parliamentarians are allowed to be such, to have the same prerogatives and the same faculties, even though they have different sources of legitimacy. It is as if we were to win a competition to those who copied the subject and to those who did it: that is, we will have parliamentarians who are such because they are indicated by the majors of the party for the most disparate reasons we know, and parliamentarians who are chosen by the sovereign people. Karl Popper was asked what his idea of democracy was: I especially address Senator Quagliariello, of whom I have read for many years the speeches he made as an intellectual in the scientific journal of the Magna Carta Foundation. Mr Quagliariello as well as I know Popper's answer that it is not important to know who is in charge; it is important to know how to control who is in charge. But in a Parliament in which you can reach 50-60 per cent of nominations, you have to tell me how the Member can challenge the authority of the person who commands, if he himself is subject to slavery that he has to be liked by the person who indicated it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] So here it is not simply a law, but a rush idea of democracy, so that three people come together on one side and three on another and, through multi-name colleges - every leader can be indicated in ten colleges - spinning those 30-40 people who are reliable because they are more obedient and more faithful, it can be determined by the mechanism of the option also who among the elected or among the voted should or should not take over. It is clear that what is more similar, what belongs to a certain current, to the coven of the parish, will take over. President Zanda is therefore wrong to quote D'Alimonte: the 30-60 scissors do not foresee the cleverness of politics, the cunning of party leaders. So let me understand what kind of Parliament it will be. I also live - I said just now - the drama of writing to Forza Italia. As President Romani rightly reminded me, I was the only one voting in this House against the Letta Government, despite the statements made by the President of my party, who had suddenly changed his opinion. But who kicked Silvio Berlusconi out of this House but the majority of the party of which Renzi was President? [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] Who should we complain to? I know you're waiting for my facecy. Naples tells the story of Pulcinella who had to go to the gallows.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u91	I invite you to conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u92	[[Protests from the M5S Group]] D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). I shall conclude, Mr President. Despite having to go to the gallows, Pulcinella - read Silvio Berlusconi, read Forza Italia, which is supine to Renzi's will - was wasting time asking who of the executioners should carry the ladder. It is irrelevant, however, to know who carries the ladder. We are hanging Forza Italia; we are transforming the center-right into something else, in the palingenesis of a party that exists, but that no one appoints, on the basis of a pact on which everything is built, but which no one knows. And then, if everything we do comes from ignorance, from the non-transparency of conditions, we cannot build good if good is not declared. In politics the aims are revealed by the means: if the medium is not clear, it is not transparent, the aims of political action will be and will remain opaque. That is why I will not vote. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u93	Before we proceed to the final vote, I warn you that Senator Finocchiaro has tabled a proposal for coordination, which has been distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u94	Senator Finocchiaro, do you intend to illustrate this?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u95	Madam President, if you would like, I can also explain it and point out that the first of the amendments is a consequence of paragraph 7 of Article 1, namely the question of the inclusion of multi-member colleges in the districts. The second amendment is due to the deletion of the coalitions in the text of the Italicum made with amendment 1,7000. The third is the result, again, of paragraph 7 of Article 1, as the first one I have pointed out, because from the phrase: "of the list of candidates presented" is changed to the following: "of the lists of candidates in multi-name colleges presented". The fourth point of coordination concerns a hypothesis of inadmissibility of the lists following the insertion of the 40-60 constraint, which was not contained in Italicum. The fifth amendment aims to adapt the rule to the new model voting form. Moreover, the inclusion after paragraph 13 corresponds to the presentation of lists of candidates in multi-name colleges and the same applies to the following. The inclusion of paragraph 16-a, after 16, also responds to a requirement which was last raised yesterday by Mr Crimi, during the vote on the amendments. With regard to paragraph 16-a, I would propose to the Presidency, after listening to a number of comments that have been made to me by my fellow Group leaders, that points (c) and (d) be deleted, given that, even if it is in full coherence and adherence to the text, and also as a result of the adoption of the reform text, it is in any case a question of new provisions. It seems to me that on this point I have to accept a requirement that has been expressed with particular force by Senator Calderoli. The resulting coordination discipline is derived from the introduction of preference voting. The following is a form change that welcomes a suggestion made yesterday by Senator Caliendo, who actually clarifies the scope of the norm in a more satisfactory way compared to the replacement of the conjunction "e" with "o" (colleagues will remember yesterday's discussion). The following is still consistent with the new wording of the paragraph resulting from amendment 1,7000. Again, the next proposal for coordination is derived from Amendment 1,7000. As regards coordination under paragraph 22 (b) (c) of the fifth sentence, reference is made to the communications to be made by the Trento electoral office to the National Election Office. The tables mentioned in the last two proposals for coordination refer to the first table in Table A, annexed to the text received from the House, while the second table in Tables A-a and A-b concerns the adoption of the Collina amendment and, in particular, the reproduction of the specimen of the recto-verso ballot which was voted together with the Collina amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u98	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, apart from the opposition that should necessarily exist between majority and opposition, I thought we were talking between decent people. I cannot fail to recall that yesterday, at the conclusion of the Conference of Leaders - where a quota was carried out which today appears truly out of all rules and common sense, because five hours of discussion have been put forward, so we have probably wasted more time making the Conference of Leaders than quoting the times - the Government asked a question. The government asked me: are you going to be correct and not to make problems about coordination? For me, coordination is automatic and formal when it comes to coordinating the text with the basis of the amendments approved by the House. And in this sense I would have expected it to move. This morning I receive from an anonymous source (perhaps from what Article 19-a wrote in the decree implementing the tax delegation) a proposal for formal coordination, which is nothing more than a maxi amendment with which to fill the holes and errors that have been made in the texts presented, sub-edited, on which the sub-amendment of the sub-amendment has been submitted and in the Chamber we have made some rewordings. Therefore, in the face of the uncertainty of this legislative activity, I cannot now be told that it is a formal coordination to re-press the list equation at some point because in the subsequent amendments tabled and adopted we forgot to do so; This is not formal coordination. I have appealed to you, Mr President, for no one to use the word coordination to do something different and I hope that you will take this decision to the full. I say this, Mr President, because the amendment that has passed and the amendment tabled by Senator Finocchiaro are an identical photocopy. This is what the government has planned. I thank President Finocchiaro himself for removing some of the indigestible letters. We send down the pigs, the kangaroos, but we can't do this anymore. If we read the coordination under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, we understand that it concerns what has been adopted in this House and that it presents contrasting profiles between one rule and another. There could be so many others, but also passed the point where Senator Finocchiaro wisely says to delete the letters c) and d), remaining the letters a) and b). With coordination we can remove, add and even novelize a text that we have approved, but Article 68 of the single electoral text did not touch it with the law. Are we going with coordination to amend a text which has not been the subject of our amendments? Do we give a law of delegation to coordination? I would remind you that if anyone wants to amend the single text, they can table amendments; they will go to the 5th Commission to see if they have any problems with charges - the same can happen in the 1st Commission - after which the amendments will be voted on with the electronic system and not by show of hands through coordination. If you pass the other points, there are a number of additions. There is even a ban on a 1957 rule. It has become clear today that a ban must be introduced which no one has ever felt necessary so far. I repeat, to finish with the good, that the amendments are either stable or not, even on the basis of the responsibility that someone else can show. Therefore, either the President examines - with great care - the text and removes all that is not the subject of coordination or I refer to paragraphs 2 and 3 of the same Article 103, according to which if the text of the draft law has been largely modified - and of the Italicum there is nothing left because it has been completely changed - and the number of amendments introduced is multiple can also be charged to the Commission to draft the coordination. Decide what you want, but if we want to end it I don't say well, but with good, you have to show a sense of responsibility and fairness. We corrected it, but if not, we move on to bad manners. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u101	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, someone has already recalled the historic moment of 1953. I am addressing you, Madam President, because I believe that, in this case, it is your call. We remember 1953 as a time when tablets and armchairs flew over the President of the Senate, who was forced to resign in the session for the approval of the scam law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let's remember that! Now we have been good and correct; we have been good and correct and no one can say that we have not been. I repeat: this time we have been good and correct, even beyond what we should have done before this bill. But now we are faced with the fact that an amendment which was rejected yesterday with a coordinating rule is being accepted. An amendment that we had called for to be adopted is now being proposed again. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups and Senator Cervellini]] This is shameful and demonstrates the inability of this Government and this majority. What did you approve of? What do you want to approve? You don't even know what you're approving. The hands they put in the tax pardon or the patent law the other day are the same ones that, at the last moment, include the rules and prohibitions! [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups]] There are 23 new lines - I repeat: 23 lines, 23 lines! - included in an article that had not even been touched on by the electoral bill; 23 new lines included in a rule that should only serve to settle and correct plural, singular, formal errors and not to redo the electoral law. Let us return calmly, after the election of the President of the Republic, to the Commission and let us take a good look at this text. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And before you vote on it, you ask for the final text because, otherwise, you will answer in ten or twenty years, when there will be a new dictatorship in this country and it will be your fault! It'll be your fault! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Cervellini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u104	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I'm really wondering if you think we're dumb. [[Live comments from the M5S Group]] I wonder if you think that, when the text is delivered, none of us will go and see that exactly the purpose of coordination is respected. Mr President, yesterday, during the Conference of the Leaders - on this we were very clear - we asked you, among other things, to have time to examine it and we had invited you in advance to submit a text that was actually coordination without spurious elements. Because here, articles that do not appear in the single text are mentioned. Now the President has changed some, but there are others. In here all the minimum parameters of correctness have been exceeded. We had to put up with an amendment-not amendment that produced the result that we all know. Mr President, in my speech I have allowed myself to remind you that it is no longer acceptable to hold a presidency which is only for the interests of the majority. In democracy, procedures and their correctness are not secondary: they are often the substance. So, ma'am, you only have two streets ahead. The first is that which should go through a Presidency guaranteeing the procedures, that is to say to expunge from the text all parties that are foreign and that are not purely formal corrections. Mr Lezzi (M5S). Without asking anyone's permission! DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Or, if you do not do so, there is no other way than to refer the text of the coordinating proposal to the Commission. Madam President, we have seen many of them. We saw what happened that night with the maxi amendment on the law of stability: in a surreal climate, everyone stood up and found wrong things or things that weren't there. That cannot go on, Madam President. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups.]] Now, we are neither fools, nor do we want to let ourselves be trampled on and trampled on once again. I would ask you, Madam President, as the last act of respect for the dignity of this House. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u105	In practice, there was a request from Senator Calderoli, Senator Crimi and Senator De Petris to refer the text back to the Commission. In accordance with Rule 103 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the House to vote on this request. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] It is known that the Rules of Procedure provide for the House to vote out of hand without debate. BUCCARELLA (M5S). You must decide, Madam President! Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). How do you do that? SANTANGELO (M5S). It's not like that, but what are you doing? What do we vote for? BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). It's your responsibility! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put to the vote the request made by Senators Calderoli, Crimi and De Petris is not approved. [[Live, repeat protests from the M5S, Misto-SEL and Misto-MovX Groups.]] Stop, it's not over. Wait a minute, please. The House rejected the request. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] Please, since there is no referral back to the Commission, as a Presidency... Mr Paglini (M5S). It's not an assumption of responsibility! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As a Presidency - I am speaking with Senator Finocchiaro and with the whole House, please - I think it is important that the text of coordination is exactly a formal text, linked to what the House voted with the amendments. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] With this clarification and with this clarity on the text, which seems to me to be an element of fairness and transparency between us, it is clear that there are parties who, not being inside the amendments, besides those of which Senator Finocchiaro has already said, are being expelled. With this clarity, pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote by show of hands the proposal for coordination that has been formulated. [[Live, repeat protests from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). It's not like that, but what are you doing?! You have to say what we're voting for. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. A favorable person is begged to raise his hand. Who's against... [[Warm protests from the M5S and Mixed-SEL groups. Senator Crimi repeatedly points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Crimes, we're voting for those parts that have also been said... CRIMI (M5S). Say which ones! Mr Lezzi (M5S). Read the text, not the sheets! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have stated the following points (c), (d) which are not in the texts voted. [[Protests from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris.]] Senators, I said I accepted the proposals... [[Live, repeat protests from the M5S Group.]] Please. [[Senator Crimi's lively protests]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Read the text! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Points (c) and (d) shall be deleted. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). That's not all there is! SANTANGELO (M5S). You have to read the text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, look, the Presidency has estimated that everything that is not relevant to what we have voted on.... [[Liveful and repeated protests from the M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]] We can't go on like this, please, just stand still. [[Senator Crimi repeatedly points out that he wants to intervene. Senator De Petris' protests.]] MARTELLI (M5S). This is a dictatorship. [[Vivacious protests by Senator Giarrusso]] CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I have said what the Presidency thinks it has done, that it is the letters (c) and (d) of paragraph 16-a, which are the same as Senator Finocchiaro said. [[Vivacious protests from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris, who points out that she wants to intervene]] BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). You have to read the text, Mr President; you have to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u108	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I applauded your willingness to censor everything that was not coordination, but you cannot tell us that your cleaning work is the proposal that Senator Finocchiaro makes, because in relation to Rule 68 also the letters (a) and (b) have nothing to do with it, because Article 68 of the single text is not touched on. [[Live comments from M5S and Mixed-MovX Groups]] You must distribute a written text before we can vote, Mr President. [[Senator De Petris repeatedly points out that she wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u109	Perfect.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u110	GIARRUSSO (M5S). We want to see the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u113	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I cannot feel bad because we can never get the floor. This has got to stop. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] It's not like I have to go to the infirmary because you're all Czech. Now, dear President, I have made it very clear: there are other parts that are completely foreign. You must take responsibility for taking 15 minutes to clean up this text and return it to us in writing. Understood? [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and LN-Aut Groups and Senators Bignami and Campanella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u114	Then I'll suspend the session for ten minutes, so let's do something specific.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u115	I am suspending the sitting for ten minutes, but I want it to be clear that the House has already voted no to the referral back to the Commission. [[Vivacious protests from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Ignorant, ignorant. AIROLA (M5S). You guys suck. You guys throw up. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The sitting shall be suspended until 5 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4.53 p.m. and resumed at 5.11 p.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency has carried out a further technical check on the outcome of which, although it considers that all the changes contained in the coordinating proposal appear to be a consequence of the amendments adopted, it has considered the desirability of launching another proposal, in addition to the one already reported and shared by Senator Finocchiaro, as it is not essential for the overall coherence of the text. The further point that is removed is on the second page of the proposal and is: In paragraph 16-a), in amendment 1.7001, number 4, delete the words "as first and as second preference vote" That is the determination of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u118	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would not like to sin either of pride or arrogance, but someone must have told you exactly the opposite of what was to be done. In fact, what you would like to expunge is the reference to amendment 1.7001. Now, whether you like it or not that the words "as first" have been deleted and as a second vote of preference" (I suggested replacing "e" with "o"), this is matter dealt with. On the other hand, I repeat, where on page 1 of the proposal for coordination we read "After paragraph 16 insert the following: "16- bis" (a), there the reference to Article 68 of the single electoral text must be removed completely, because there is no trace of it in the measure before this House. Therefore, we maintain in amendment 1,7001, number 4, the reference to paragraph 16-a), and we suspend the insertion... after paragraph 16 (c), because the one with the 16-a) has nothing to do with it. It is the only text of the electoral laws: amending it by a vote by show of hands for formal coordination is a coup d'état, Madam President. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and the Senators De Pin and Simeoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u119	Now let's not exaggerate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u122	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business so that my words remain in the Minutes. Madam President, this is not a municipal council, but a constitutional body of this Republic. I call on you to protect my duties as a senator with pedissequa and punctual application and respect for the Rules of Procedure, the violation of which this time does not take on the mere aspect of forcefulness, Madam President. Here we are in the presence of an attack on the functioning of the constitutional bodies, perpetrated by a collectible and unlegitimate majority, not legitimized by the vote of the citizens [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For this, Madam President, you, because you are in this position at the moment, and those who support you in this area take responsibility. If it were to be voted on in this way a rule that is not a coordinating text, but much more, I would be obliged to address the competent authorities, because this is a very serious act of attack on the Constitution and the functioning of Parliament, which is not tolerable in a Democratic country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u125	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, with regard to the proposal for the deletion that you have last made with reference to paragraph 16-a of amendment 1.7001, although in my opinion the deletion is correct, in any case it concerns an issue that has been dealt with. While what Mr Calderoli has again submitted to you is absolutely true, since Article 68 of the single electoral text has never been dealt with: in my opinion, points (a) and (b) should also be deleted. However, even in the municipal councils, Senator Giarrusso, there is much more respect for procedures than in this House. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u128	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, with regard to your proposal to amend paragraph 16-a, the problem of points (a) and (b) remains. If I understand correctly, we have voted for an amendment rejected by the House: it seems to me that this point has not been touched on. In addition, you had been asked to speak under Rule 103 (3) of the Rules of Procedure before. Paragraph 3 explains exactly what we should do, because it says: The final vote shall be postponed to the next sitting, in order to allow the Commission and the Government to submit the proposals referred to in the abovementioned paragraphs; however, in cases of particular urgency, the President, having appreciated the circumstances, may postpone the vote to a later stage of the same sitting. So the vote you have taken does not affect paragraph 3, because you have to take responsibility for choosing what to do and you cannot leave this responsibility to the House by hiding behind the vote on paragraph 2. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u129	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u130	CIOFFI (M5S). So let me say that you take full responsibility for what we are doing.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u131	I agree. I assume the responsibility that needs to be assumed by the Presidency. At this point, in addition to the letters c) and d) that Senator Finocchiaro had expounded from the text of the coordination, there is what the Presidency has proposed to expunge further, that I have already read and not repeat; at the same time there is the proposal of Senator Calderoli, Senator De Petris and, if I understood correctly... ENDRIZZI (M5S). Don't put this to the vote! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Democracy, however, is a vote. I would therefore ask the House to express its views on the proposal made by Senator Calderoli to expunge the part that has just been mentioned. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] I therefore put this proposal to the vote. CIOFFI (M5S). It is all the responsibility of the Presidency, not the House! VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Shame! Shame! The House is not responsible! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's not approved. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Shame! Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I assume at this point the responsibility to put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1, pursuant to Article 3, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure. I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1 (text 2). [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] It's approved. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 1385, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). (The Senators of the Group) [[LN-Aut stand by showing their hands raised up. Vivacious protests from the M5S Group]] VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. Shame! Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Ironic applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL Groups. Reiterate protests from the M5S Group]] The draft law No 1449 is therefore absorbed. I'm gonna suspend the session for five minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 5 p.m. and resumed at 5.29 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u132	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, seventy years ago, on 27 January 1945, with the demolition of the gates of the Auschwitz concentration camp, the horror of the Holocaust was unveiled in the eyes of the world, the awareness of the Shoah, of the most heinous racial extermination in the history of humanity, that of the Jewish people. With the dismantling of the concentration camps and the liberation from Nazism and Fascism it had to deal with its history, and this despite the memories of the lagers were not, as Trudi Birger wrote, survivors of the extermination camps, simple garments, something that can be stripped and put in the closet, because they are engraved in our skin and we cannot get rid of it. It was from memory, even before the Treaties, that Europe began to rebuild democracy and recognize itself beyond horror. The identity building of a common European home was born from the desire to restore and strengthen a heritage of values and principles of tolerance and respect for human dignity and people. But that January 1945 was not only an opportunity to redeem the conscience of the old continent: it was the whole world that woke up in the knowledge that to preserve democracy it was necessary to guarantee the fundamental rights and freedoms of people. A new natural right emerged from collective awareness, following the liberation of Auschwitz, written in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 10 December 1948, in which the preamble states clearly that the recognition of dignity is inherent to all members of the human family and to their equal and inalienable rights. They are the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world. Peace, understood as an absolute value for the first time in history, was not made dependent on the value of States, but on individual men and women and on respect for their fundamental and inalienable rights. This Memory Day recognized in Italy and in the world preserves in the future the memory of a tragic period of the history of our country and of Europe as a whole, but at the same time it must remind us of our responsibilities even today. It is said that the most difficult memory is the memory of the present and that is why history, especially with its mistakes, increases our responsibilities towards today and the future. The warning of the horrors of the Shoah must then come to us stronger today in a Europe and in a world in which anti-Semitism and racism do not hint to diminish and which unfortunately see the emergence of new forms of ferocious intolerance, contempt for human dignity and life and the most elementary rights of people, women and children. This is therefore an opportunity to remember and pay homage to the victims of the Holocaust, who have suffered persecution, deportation, imprisonment and death, as well as to those who courageously opposed the plan of extermination even at the risk of their lives. Remembering its sacrifice must and can be the seed of a new and renewed awareness and a strengthening of the guarantees and rights and freedoms today. It is time to lift the cloak of indifference that covers the new massacres of innocent people in the name of what history has taught us and continue along the path of law, because only the guarantee of rights preserves democracy. As the Nobel Prize for Literature, Octavio Paz, said, memory must be a present that never ceases to pass. On this day of reflection and remembrance, I invite the House to observe a minute's recollection. (The House observed a minute's silence.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u135	AMATI (PD). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. I have here a letter signed by myself, Mr Malan and several other colleagues pursuant to Rule 56 (4) of the Rules of Procedure. This letter refers to the bill Act of the Senate 54, amending Article 3 of Law No 654 of 13 October 1975. The theme is negationism. I look at the House and see its consistency. I also see the heaviness of the issue that we faced earlier. I am thinking of the importance of this issue. I would remind you that this morning I was with many colleagues (including Mr Malan) in the Chamber of Deputies, where I heard the President of UCEI, Renzo Gattegna, refer to our proposal for a law which was fired on 4 July last year in the Commission and which still has to come to this House. He now writes to me President Pacifici from Auschwitz and asks why, while by now the veterans have obviously fallen by age (says that the "time passes"), the Parliament that voted unanimously in 1938 the racial laws, even today begins to discuss this issue with a debate in the Chamber. I do not deliver this note (I keep it for next week) and, therefore, I do not start the procedures, but I ask you if, in addition to the words, this House can think of doing things on such an important subject. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator Beloved. I think it is important that, as a Presidency, I take charge of bringing this request to the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u138	ENDRIZZI (M5S). President, we are talking about memory, yet here there are two memories: the human one, who lives the moments and remembers them, and the inhuman one, who arbitrarily selects the precedents, tame the rules and introduces thoughts that should not exist. You have just made a commitment to expunge from the text of the coordinating proposal which has been submitted to us every element which is not strictly consistent with the votes and the progress of the debate in this House. On the article mentioned by Senator Calderoli, this House has not only not changed, but has not discussed it. All point 16 -bis had to be removed. I repeat, everything. On the contrary, you have failed, not only to the reality of the facts, but also to the words you had just spoken. I think it is really difficult today to talk about long-term memory when we do not respect what has been said a few minutes before. I'm asking you for an explanation on this. [[Applause from Senator Serra.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u141	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I have heard Senator Amati's proposal. Let us be quite clear: in the Commission we held hearings, three quarters of which were against, in general, the idea of being able to make a crime of the history. Another part, however, was favorable, as I am, to a law that specifically concerns the Holocaust of the Jewish people and not to a law, as has been discussed, that waters down this historical tragedy in hundreds and hundreds of historical events (all those on which the Hague tribunal has pronounced itself and will pronounce itself) in all parts of the world and in all conflicts. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, please. GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). I remember that, because we're talking about the Holocaust and the moment we talk about the universality of the Holocaust... president. We're not getting into this. A different proposal has been made. GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). There is talk of a measure that waters it down and equals it to other thousands of events (in Bosnia, the Balkans and Africa). I remember that the Holocaust is something that we remember today; other historical events are quite different and denialism, which concerns hundreds of historical events on which historians will decide, is something different from the Holocaust.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u144	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Amati for presenting this request and thank you, Mr Fedeli, for undertaking to bring this request to the next Conference of Leaders. I believe that this is a commitment that must also be strengthened by the Groups, because almost all of them, long ago, undertook to examine this bill. This morning, during the commemoration to the House, which was open, the President of the Union of Jewish Communities, Mr Gattegna, specifically asked to move forward and bring this debate to the Chamber. At the very least, it is brought to the House and someone will assume the responsibility of saying no, while someone else will take the responsibility of saying yes. I would point out to Mr Giovanardi that there is no crime of opinion in the text that came out of the Junta. The negation of the Shoah and other war crimes (held in accordance with international procedures) is considered an aggravating factor in the case of incitement to hatred, which is better outlined: it is therefore a rule guaranteeing freedom of opinion and there is no problem for historians, because I do not see that any historian goes around inciting hatred and violence. So there really must be a commitment on the part of everyone to examine the matter: then everyone will be free to say no. It reminded me of President Gattegna a year ago that every year there are hundreds of survivors who are missing for personal reasons: there are only 300 left, while few years ago there were 1,500. I would say that it is time to make a decision on this: it would be the most worthy way of celebrating this day, which will rightly now see interventions of great interest. But I believe that we must also make concrete facts and our concrete facts are the legal provisions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u147	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to refer you to the order of business. Honestly, we are missing the rationality in the management of this House, just as it is happening. A memorial had begun and we would have expected the same to continue, as defined in the Conference of Leaders. I do not understand the intervention of Senator Amati, also because the same type of proposal had been made by Senator Zanda and, after a conversation with the Government, had been from the same retreat, with unanimity on this topic and on this point and, above all, on this method of proceeding in the management of the work. Get out now with these initiatives and confuse the subject... Frankly, if we are talking about Rule 56 of the Rules of Procedure, let us do so at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u148	You're right, Senator Candiani. In fact, I told Senator Amati that it will be discussed elsewhere. Now we are only here to maintain the agenda that we had defined, namely the celebration of the Memorial Day and the scheduled interventions of the Groups on this point. You're right, and thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u149	In this regard, I would like to express to you the discomfort of the Lega Nord Group for not having been able to organize the interventions in an appropriate manner. At this point, in a way absolutely far from any will not to participate in this celebration, we give up our intervention, because it would be confused with another issue, which instead has been inserted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u150	The question raised by Senator Amati is not on the agenda. I want to make this quite clear. Let us then resume with the speeches concerning the celebration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u153	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our society is a society that lives in an eternal present. In it the spaces for remembrance, like the spaces for the project, seem to be reserved for a few. All the others, on the other hand, are the subject of a systematic and meticulous work of dereliction. Much could be done and is not done by the school, penalized not only by the perennial lack of funds, which today has reached the paradoxism, but also by a guilty lack of investment on the civic qualities of people and the promotion of citizens as such. For years, citizens have been wanted to be marginalized from political life, from decisions on the res publica, and the choices of this Government appear, with all evidence, as the final stage of a deliberate process of total anesthesia. These choices of management groups are open accounts with history. Man is naturally not loving toward his neighbor; good and bad impulses are disputed his will. The desire of the majority to get rid of what is different and is not reducible to itself, denying the humanity of the other, is lurking in every society, ready to manifest itself, and in our societies it has already manifested marginally in the beatings and some ill-capitulated person homeless, in the hunt for gypsies. When, in the hands of crazy demagogues, an unbridled majority gets to conquer the government of a country, then no one is more sure of their rights and you can get to prosecute someone for what they are, rather than for what they do, until they kill according to law. This happened in Germany and Italy between the 1930s and 1940s, but it happened and took place under similar conditions in many parts of the world. The question I ask myself and all of us is: are we doing everything possible so that we can no longer repeat ourselves in our country? [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u156	ICHINO (SPI). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it would be very little on Memory Day if it were just an opportunity to recall a tragic event in our history, almost as if it were a natural catastrophe, in spite of unusual dimensions and lethal consequences, or as if it were an opportunity to remember how much a foreign people has been capable of murderous ferocity against millions of innocent people, emphasizing our distance, our total alterity, extraneousness and reprobation. If so, the Day of Remembrance would have an undesirable effect, because it would assume the meaning of an uncritical self-absolution. On the other hand, this day of reflection was set up in order to remind us of a ferocious assassination of which, to some extent, Europe as a whole, including Italy, was co-responsible. The massive massacre of millions of Jews, but also of Roma, homosexuals and other "aliens" would not have been possible if the Nazi fury had not found fertile ground for collaboration by the institutions and populations of the occupied countries. Thus, it certainly could not have happened that 90% of Polish Jews were exterminated if Nazi anti-Semitism had not immediately been combined with a deeply rooted anti-Semitism spread throughout Poland. As for our home, we cannot forget that it was the racial laws of 1938 - the ones that forbade Jewish children to attend public schools and excluded their parents from public duties, from professional records and even from boards of directors - that prepared the lists that would then easily be used by the SS to arrest and deport 8,000 of our fellow citizens. Similarly, even an army of SS ten times as many as Hitler had to kill 60 percent of Ukrainian Jews, 70 percent of Hungarian Jews, 50 percent of Romanian Jews, 90 percent of those in the Baltic States, 26 percent of French Jews, 77 percent of Greek Jews, 60 percent of Belgian Jews, 75 percent of Dutch Jews and many others. All this would certainly not have been possible if racism and anti-Semitism had not flourished spontaneously in each of these countries, if collaborationism, delation and endemic raid instinct had not paved the way for the uniformed murderers. Proof of this is that in the only country of Europe occupied by the Nazis, in which collaborationism and anti-Semitism did not manifest themselves (Denmark), the invaders managed to deport only 52 Jews to the field of Theresienstadt, 1% of the Danish Jewish population; which means that where all, from the first to the last of the citizens, have done their duty to the end, that is to say, they have made a wall in defense of the Jewish fellow citizens, where the Modstandsbevægelsen - excuse the certainly faulty pronunciation - (the non-violent movement of Danish resistance), without firing a single blow, was able to build a barrier in defense of the Jews built with the only material of the civic sense, solidarity and sense of the honor of a people, where the king in person responded to the Nazi diktat wearing himself publicly the yellow star, it was enough for the extermination project to be effectively opposed, even in a militarily subjugated country. The massacre could multiply, up to the unimaginable dimensions of the Shoah, only where all this did not happen, where the governments of the nations allied with the Nazis or invaded by them have collaborated with them, where racism and Nazi anti-Semitism have found deep resonances in the culture of the subjugated countries. In the same years in which the massacre was carried out, another was carrying out, a little further east, of even greater size, which perhaps has not yet been focused with the same degree of completeness as the Shoah: the Stalinian massacre. It certainly captures an aspect of the historical reality Primo Levi when it supports the otherness and diversity of nature and motive between these two genocides; but they take another aspect, no less important than the same reality, Varlam Salamov, Aleksandr Solžhenitsyn and especially Vasilij Grossman, when they emphasize the substance that, on the contrary, deeply unites these - and all the others - genocides. And then it is right to include in our reflection, to which we are called the Day of Memory, not only the Hitlerian genocide but also the Stalinian genocide and all the others that have constituted the tragic distinctive feature of the last century: that of the Armenians of the early twentieth century (a sort of tragic general proof of what would happen thirty years later), the genocide perpetrated by the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia, that perpetrated on the Tutsis in Rwanda, those who recently upset the Balkan countries one step away from our home, and others more. Perhaps in a few years or decades we will be accused, as genocide, of behavior that appears to be very far from those on which the Day of Memory intends to solicit our permanent reflection and our moral and civil vigilance. I am talking about the indifference with which we tend to look at the thousands of people who die in the sea of ourstrum to escape other genocides that occur more in the South or more in the East. One thing is certain: the substance that unites these new, immense tragedies, is not their inhumanity. Bernard-Henri Lévy at the UN spoke of Cette inhumanité, bassisse cette here is called anti-sémitisme, but their humanity, their belonging to the depths of our nature, their dependence in everything and for everything from explosive aggressions that lurk where we least suspect it. We will not defeat the genocidal ferocity of which we have identified the foreign passport if we do not fully deal with the genocidal ferocity which, to a greater or lesser extent, is and will remain latent in every human aggregate, even in ours, until another group of humans continue to be considered as a dangerous tribe of aliens. [[Applause from the SCPI ePD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u157	We greet the students and students of the middle school "Silvio Pellico" of Vedano Olona, in the province of Varese. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u160	D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). Madam President, what we are going to do today can only be a liturgy, a way like another to repeat things for granted, or it can be a moment of reflection that leads us to the cause of this heinous barbarism. I share many of the things that Senator Ichino has just said and I remember an element that Hannah Arendt describes in a book entitled "The banality of evil," where as a journalist, following the trial in Israel of the Nazi murderer Eichmann, says that all this barbarism, all this horror is not to be understood by people who have a particular inclination or a particular wickedness, but by people who in normal life, before the war, were nothing more than normal citizens, small bourgeois, shopkeepers, so that the seed of hatred and contempt for human life were not to be found in the evil soul of these people, but in the indoctrination and exasperation of a policy, that through precisely the doctrine, that of the superiority of the race, the invincibility of the Germanic people, had transformed these normal - I dare say banal - citizens capable of heftiness and crimes of unusitated reach. We must therefore remember here how tyranny is born, because the same things were done later by Stalin, Pol Pot, Mao Tse-tung. Just imagine that there are about 100 million people who died of hunger and famine, because regimes had been built that, as in Hitler's Germany, had been pretended to interpret the course of history (Popper calls them historians). Just as Marxism, also Nazism had understood, through an idea of State and race, to interpret the ultimate goal of history that was, in the case of the Nazis, the superiority of their race over others, and by virtue of the violence of this fideism, which today is proposed with ISIS and with the caliphate, we see that this barbarity continues as in Rwanda, Nigeria and the Arab States. Why this? Because, where there are no democratic institutions, where there is no government subjected to the most incessant criticism, where there is no possibility of overturning the government without bloodshed, tyranny is established, and where this tyranny has the claim to interpret history, to create a race or faith superior to others, in the name of that faith everything is allowed. I say this because, when we talk about democratic institutions, it seems as if we want to reiterate our conception of how a state is administered. There were even critics of the theory that wanted to export democracy with the intervention against Saddam Hussein and there was someone who had perished to say that everyone has the right to govern themselves in the ways and forms he considers most appropriate. This is not the case: without democracy, with no popular governments, with no strong and entrenched institutions, the human beast comes out. So, we have to say that Nazism and the crimes that came from Nazism, as von Hayek tells us in the way of slavery and von Mises in a beautiful book called "Socialism" were born from what these thinkers call the "negative selection" of the people who make politics. As you can see, everything is traced back to politics and institutions, because only through the massification of a simple but repetitive, obsessive message, therefore accessible to the broadest layer of the population, we can have the upper hand over that part that is little autonomous intellectually, because the people who have the ability to think are difficult to amalgamate. Today I want to say that we are defending ourselves from those crimes by confirming, also in this House, a system of liberal democracy. If we were able to submit those who command, those who manage power, to that incessant criticism, to that incessant control, we would never have tyrannical governments, we would not have people who think they interpret, themselves, the will of a people, because they would know that they are an instrument of democracy and that they would be transitory, transitory, in the management of the government itself. I believe, therefore, that the most beautiful commemoration we can make is to call all of us to the revolution of our consciences, to understand that democracy is not the exercise of numbers and is not the empire and tyranny of the majority; democracy is essentially, together with liberalism, the limitation of powers. This is the embankment to tyranny, this is the embankment to the heinous crimes that, in the name of totalitarianism, in the last century, were consumed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u163	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I think that talking about numbers when discussing this subject is something we should not do: we have read the numbers these days, and I am a reminder of a perhaps a little cold memory. In the last parliamentary term I was secretary of the Anti-Semitism Investigation Committee in the House of Deputies. Within that situation, of course interesting, because there was yes a historical element, but also of actuality (which is then emerging in these days, with French data and other data compared to the persistent problem), the fact that more hit me (having been a moment of great awareness for me) was the intervention of a scholar, who made me feel absolutely silly. In that speech he expressed a very simple concept, namely that anti-Semitism is the least evident racism because it addresses a group which cannot be identified at first sight. It is a dramatic fact because, if you look instead at the historical element, the search for the Jew is wanted. In fact, your fellow banker may be Jewish (but if you don't ask him, he's not Jewish), your professor may be Jewish (but if you don't ask, you don't know he's Jewish); if you ask your fellow factoryman and he says yes, then maybe you'll find out he's Jewish. So, there is an evolution of this absolute evil that is even worse, perhaps (and still today it is) than other dramatic situations, because it becomes devious. I was thinking today about that is Memory Day. The newspapers in these days were talking about reading in schools, a very beautiful initiative, also because some have the drama of poetry, or, it is poetry that becomes drama when the people who have experienced frightening moments tell that experience; but, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also read in schools what others have written. I began reading writings of this kind many years ago, when I happened to buy a book that was nothing but the diary of an SS petty officer who was rakes in Ukraine. What strikes you? Simply that, for him, those were not people but stock, pieces. You can read in the diary sentences of the type: "Today we have rake 150 pieces and we have deleted 200 pieces. Dramatic. Really dramatic. Perhaps you should read what remains of the Wannsee interministerial conference, where about 30 people have industrially planned the elimination of men, women and children. Perhaps we should read a book that I have just read and which I recommend, not because it is a nice book and certainly not for the sake of the author: it is the diary of Rudolf Höss, the commander of Auschwitz, whose concerns were the ineffectiveness and inefficiency of the extermination system and the materials that did not arrive. I think first of all memory is non-removal, and non-removal cannot be deletion of what others have been. Today I was reading an article in a newspaper, explaining that in Germany for a long time there was an attempt to remove civil and extensive conscience. When it comes to the evacuation of the Auschwitz camp, we all know that we are talking about a system of camps. It was such an extensive field, with its number of satellite fields, that it could not be invisible. Obviously, it was in Poland, not in Germany, but so was the system of camps in Germany. I feel a strong emotion every time. At the age of fourteen my father took me to visit Dachau, because he thought it was a good teaching for the rest of my education; I ended it last year by visiting the great museum in Jerusalem. However, I would like to end with a reminder. I also heard Professor Ichino - whom I call today because in this passage I care - say that we too have to look inside. It is not true, as you said before, Professor Ichino, the saying: "Italians, good people." We too are like others and perhaps, for the future, this should be a teaching. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u164	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u166	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, the memory of the Holocaust, as we know, is a fundamental value of our Constitution and of the Republic, so it is a value that unites and, especially on a day like today, it is particularly worth remembering. That is why we need to continue to remember and do so in the parliamentary seat, which represents popular sovereignty. Remembering, we are doing something that goes beyond merely remembering what it was, but we are also remembering the founding values of our Constitution. It is important to remember not rhetorically, and it is not always easy. That is why I shall confine myself to two brief comments. The first is that remembering extermination obliges you to remember the exterminations, all the exterminations of the different, those celebrated and those not celebrated, those known and those not known. In every corner of the world, unfortunately, they continue practices of this kind, and this reminds us how important it is to keep the attention high. This is also why today, not by chance, together with other colleagues, we deposited a bill, which had already been presented in the last parliamentary term, to add the porrajmos, the extermination of the Roma and the Sinti, to the Day of Memory: an act of symbolic reparation that, when it comes, will still be too late. Remembering exterminations - I say it in the plural - serves not only to prevent, to prevent such horrors from happening again in the future (this, I dare say, is the least that can be expected); it also serves something more: to reflect on the confrontation with diversity, with otherness, with the increasing complexity of our society. This is a very difficult and fascinating challenge that must be faced with humility, we have heard it - fortunately - even in the speeches that preceded me, without recipes translated into slogans, on the one hand, and without emotional rhetoric, on the other hand. It is no use in washing collective consciousness but serves to reflect and I would say to cultivate doubt, which can only arise from difficult but inevitable challenges and which instead is too often used to dispense dangerous certainties that can lead to dramatic consequences. The second consideration I would like to make also has a self-critical cue, because we must always begin by ourselves to cultivate the gift of doubt. These reflections are called even more by those who are naturally more sensitive to these issues, because they are daily exposed to the challenge of managing diversity, like us, representatives of territories of traditional settlement of linguistic minorities. In these territories there is a greater and longer experience, but today this challenge, and above all its intelligent management, concerns all territories and especially all minorities, the more the less attentive territories and the more the weaker and less equipped minorities. We see that there is a long way to go in this area; on the contrary, I have the impression that unfortunately sometimes it falls back in the awareness of the difficulty of these challenges, forgetting the strong connection between human rights and the social and economic development of a country. It is a very strong connection, and if you do not invest in rights, something that often does not even have a cost, you will never have a progress of society. So remembering the past serves to design the future, and remembering leads, at least for once also in these classrooms, to study, to think, to doubt, and not to dispense certainties. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u167	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u169	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Madam President, Nazism was not the work of a madman, but a scientific construction, even in the use of technical instruments, for the annihilation of the other. In the concentration camps are finished Jews, political opponents, religious, Roma, synths, homosexuals. The Shoah is probably the most terrible act in the history of humanity also because it has been carefully planned, carried out with an industrial rationality in which human beings were considered objects, similar to artifacts and maniacally executed until the last, until after the end of the war. The U.S. Holocaust Museum states that every arm of the German army has been involved in the logistics of genocide, making the Third Reich a genocidal state. Even before the public events of 1933, the Shoah was prepared by a series of public acts, intellectual and scientific discussions on "purity": already in 1895 Adolf Jost "The right to death" supported the right to impose death on the individual to safeguard the purity of the people. Every individual, who was potentially a threat to Nazism, was persecuted by the third Reich. In those fields is finished the different, the different that it was convenient to build, to organize, simplify and, in the end, to command on a homogeneous social body. As has been said in so many speeches, for us the day of memory cannot and must not be merely a commemoration, but a moral obligation, especially because we are the main ones responsible for the action of a state and that is why we must take a step further, beyond memory. We have to ask ourselves how this has been possible and how it will be possible that nothing like this can happen again. Memory is in fact extraordinarily important because returning to what has happened can help us to read the present correctly and see the risks that lie here, in the heart of Europe, which seems to remember no longer being born precisely to allow the peaceful coexistence of different peoples and cultures and leave behind the horrors of world wars and the Shoah. In Dresden, since the end of October, every Monday the supporters of Patronage, the European Patriots against the Islamization of the West, gather in the square. Every Monday the protesters have increased more and more, until they reach the famous 25,000 of the event of January 12 last. The German press has long questioned whether they were racists or neo-Nazis with a new face, or only citizens naturally concerned about the Islamic invasion, until their leader, who appeared on Facebook with Hitler's uniform and expression, manifested his true soul with statements about immigrants such as animals, scum, trash and a singing to the Ku Klux Klan. On 21 January, the Aegis (the Leipzig aegis) took another 15,000 people and 20,000 to the streets in a counter-manifestation: a bad and worrying climate for Europe. For this reason, vigilance against the re-emergence of the charm of purity, of racism towards the different, towards the weakest, towards those who appear to have a strong identity and therefore can be easily pointed out must be kept high, especially at a time of severe difficulty and economic crisis in which one ends up looking for easy scapegoats. Nazism and the idea of the cancellation of humanity have taken place, drop by drop, with the exercise of physical, psychological and political violence to create consensus and to erase freedom of thought. First of all it canceled the different or, better, created the different and made him enemy. So if we can remember those deaths today - I am about to conclude, Mr President - it is precisely because we have to dry every drop of that kind. In these years, in these seventy years, we have allowed too many drops to pass and now we see rivers of hatred that can arrive in our history. Reaffirming the values that lead us to condemn what happened seventy years ago forces us to change ourselves. For this reason we must be intransigent about everything that is discrimination, because all this brings violence and the cancellation of freedom; because we know that it was possible, even if it seems incredible, that so many men can put together and put together all their energies to erase other men. It has already happened and we, if we do not want to forget, have to dry those drops every day. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Barozzino and Mussini]] Madam President, I would ask you to be able to deliver the full text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u170	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u171	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u173	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I would like to return to your intelligent remarks at the start of our debate. Its starting point is 1945, when the world becomes aware of Auschwitz and Birkenau. However, having to go back to the plan of the Shoah, I would say that this takes shape at least three years earlier: we are on Lake Wannsee, near Berlin, it is January 20 and in the conference that is held in that place the Nazi hierarchies ultimately decide the total extermination, the complete ethnic cleansing of the Jewish people. As many colleagues have evoked, it was a design that came from afar, at least since a willing Austrian corporal, who perhaps also seemed unprovoked, had excited the spirits in Vienna with the "Mein Kampf', his controversy against the multi-national Habsburg-Austrian State, which led him to identify in Judaism the most corrupt and unhealthy element, to be removed scientifically. Moreover, anti-Semitism was an ancient European disease and not only in Eastern Europe, Russia and Romania, which had arrived in Paris in 1894, when Captain Dreyfus was accused, judged and condemned because he was Jewish. Compared to that project developed by the Nazi hierarchies near Berlin in 1942, we perhaps had the most powerful weapon of defense that humanity besieged by hatred and totalitarian ideology would have been able to oppose: the seemingly harmless "diary" of a German girl, Anna Frank, repaired with the family in Amsterdam, then died in Bergen-Belsen. Perhaps it was also more or less random the lucky "detail" that the subtle SS officer who seized the crate with Anna's writings did not destroy them, just as the memory of the Shoah would have been difficult to impose even in the West, if men like Primo Levi or Elie Wiesel - of whom in Auschwitz and Birkenau are kept the sneakers, because there was recluse as a child - had not decided to return to their homes and tell what they had lived. Our consciousness would be poorer, and history would be dangerously incomplete, without that "diary" of Anna Frank; the antibodies of our civilization against the ever-present emergence of new forms of racism would be tremendously defenseless. Madam President, it seems to me that you have pointed out that in 1948 the United Nations Assembly should have meant the flag of a new natural law, which was made international law: that flag today is much more offended and torn than in 1948. Moreover, a few days ago, in order to recall episodes such as those in Paris or Brussels, and many others, in which the fire was opened against human beings for the mere fact that they were Jews, the United Nations was not invited to this or that South American writer - even worthy - or even Israeli, of dissent with respect to the Gaza operation. The United Nations, precisely in anticipation - it was January 21 and the Day of Memory was approaching - wanted to listen to Bernard-Henri Lévy, who expressed himself as this morning in Italy we were able to read about the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera). I think then - it is the way to look at this date - that Anna Frank's life was probably short, but her diary gives us her eternity, she would have said Benedict Cross. His diary gives us back his beauty and his intelligence as a teenager and, at times, even his smile. That's why, in order to always be at this morning's "Corriere della Sera" it didn't convince me the combination of Anna Frank's diary and "Life is beautiful," Benigni's film: what does it have to do with it? We must respect certain events and certain documents of memory as unrepeatable, as unicum. Every approach would be wrong. Anna Frank's life was not the life of those who did not have a destiny, because Anna Frank would have lived forever thanks to that diary in which she tells us every day testimonies of life, of the taste of life, of the love of life. In her little, which is the universal of her story, Anna Frank tried to defeat, by writing, her executioners and those recurring and miserable attempts at negationism or minimalism that push in the bad conscience of the world and the international community. I have never lost sight of what the 1948 hope meant, to which you referred. But when I saw the United Nations, through the choice of a Secretary-General who had been at least questionable, to hand over (just with his speeches) to the procedures to the men and to the techniques of the aratfactism the organization of the United Nations I have seen offended an affair in front of which today, as on any other occasion, the senators of my Group bowed moved. [[Applause from the groups AP(NCD-UCD), FI-PdL XVII and PD and Senator Paglini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u174	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u176	Mr Paglini (M5S). I take the floor on my behalf and on behalf of my Group with a sense of fear, on the tip of my feet, measuring and weighing every word, but I cannot escape this task because we all have a duty to leave a small trace in our path that, like a pebble, can help to form a mountain that remains and exists for those who come. Today in this House we remember the extermination of the Jewish people and the persecution of all ethnic and political minorities. I remember that in Nazi Germany, before mass extermination was carried out in the concentration camps, another occurred, that of the disabled, people with physical or mental discomfort, who were thought to be lives unworthy of being lived. Before killing strangers, it was decided to suppress their children, disabled Germans, soldiers returned from the mutilated front or psychiatric patients, because they were not productive: Ausmerzen, the holocaust premiere of the Shoah, a word that has a peasant etymology (the suppression of the weakest animals before March, before transhumance). Then it continued with millions of Jews, Romas, synths and homosexuals: people who were not fit to exist and exterminated in the name of collective madness, in an unstoppable and inexorable loss of rights and freedom. This happened in the sunlight, in front of the eyes and hearts of all, in a form of collective habit to the horror that, drop by drop, legitimated the aberration. That is why we must have memory: to increase our sense of existence, with respect and gratitude. Man can get used to all the evil that exists if he is not put before his own responsibilities. In the Latin language, the term corresponding to the Italian word "responsibility" is spontaneous, meaning "promise" or "commitment." His synonym is praestatio, which means to be a guarantor of someone or something. Responsible is someone who is the guarantor of someone else. Here, in the years of the extermination of millions of lives this failed: it failed to take charge of the other. Often men do not assume the responsibility they should, as a guarantee of their own interests, because they feel that, in order to be well, it is sufficient not to harm themselves. In the hierarchy of values, the "ensuring oneself" prevails over the "recruiting." On the other hand, ignoring the existence of others exempts them from having to give answers. So, in order not to feel guilty, it is enough to be able to say always and in any case: with this I have nothing to do with it. However, as the Greek historian Thucydides recalled: "Evil is not only of those who do it: it is also of those who, being able to prevent it from being done, do not prevent it. At the time of the Shoah, but also in modern societies, the greatest faults concern not so much what is done, but what is not done, subjecting entire populations to the shame of omission. I say here, loudly, in this House, but I say this myself: I have to take charge of myself; we have to take on the burden of others knowingly, not in offering what we can, but in undertaking on a daily journey to achieve a more just world. We all got to know what happened in those terrible years. We got to know stories and we saw documents and images on the Holocaust. All this must make us feel in debt, transmitting what we have received and, consequently, making us guarantors and responsible for the future so that it can be better. Such a lived responsibility results in a higher piety, in a love for our humanity. In our contemporary world we run many risks because the dimension of the extemporaneum, for excess of race, has made us lose the past: commodification of feeling, paradoxically sometimes cleared in 140 characters to be launched in a tweet as sterile monochromatic confetti. In society there is a eradication syndrome, because there is no memory and you live in the snapshot. You are sucked into the violence of life because you do not cultivate the time of life. Since responsibility is linked to time, I cannot be responsible unless I value what my action today can produce in the future. Responsibility is rooted in the past and open in the future. For this reason we must see, listen and re-arrange the many stories, until we get into the eyes and heart the sense of torment, in order to acquire - then - the deepest sense of respect towards the other. Stories of people deported from the extermination camps have been heard thanks to the direct voices of those who have experienced martyrdom and all teach us and mark us, leaving us a clear and deep furrow of compassion. Personally I remember one in particular: that of a woman, at the time little more than a child, who remembered when she was in the extermination camps, in the barracks, in those inhuman conditions, at the death of the forces. Beings left in the cold that kills, without any sense of humanity around. The story she made was that of the shack piled up with creatures that had been taken away from everything. Above all, she remembered a woman who held her teenage daughter close to her. Her memory stops in the embrace that this woman gave to her creature without strength, caressing her head, swinging her and singing songs in her ear telling her that she was beautiful! In the story of the surviving, now elderly, the torment in remembering the tested envy and the sense of impotence in what she could not have at that moment, at this moment she was denied: it was denied the warmth, a hug that someone at that moment was not giving to her too. The torment in the torment, the envy mixed with a sense of guilt for what no one could give her anymore! Sense of guilt that he carried with him for all the years to come. At that time people were taken away not only from life, but above all from the soul. I remember when I listened to those words I was breathless, as if in apnoea, in a still silence. There are stories that are no longer erased from our minds and that change us. It is up to us today not to forget, acting with our choices and our daily commitment, until we never forget, continually writing history with our living memory, trying to develop our sense of harmony and compassion until we learn love. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u179	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the memory of the Shoah is not only celebrated with days dedicated specifically to the memory of what happened, nor with books, films or exhibitions in museums. Of course, telling means not forgetting. The moment comes when the value of memory remains necessary, but no longer sufficient. He wrote Primo Levi, in "The asymmetry and life", which "Auschwitz" is outside of us, but is around us, is in the air. The plague has turned off, but the infection snakes. Words that unfortunately remain very current, seventy years after the opening of the gates of Auschwitz. In Europe the danger has not yet passed and anti-Semitism is even gaining the dignity of thought and political agenda in various countries. It is certainly not a case of history that we are witnessing the greatest Jewish escape from the old continent after the Second World War; on the table of Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu there is a detailed plan to accommodate 120,000 French Jews in ten years, a quarter of the total number of Jews living in France today. This is a fact that should make all European chancellors reflect. Meanwhile, the latest survey of anti-Semitism revealed that 12% of Italians are anti-Semitic and 44 percent have hostile attitudes towards Jews. Even Primo Levi in his time wrote, almost prophetically, that the Jewish brothers had to abandon the Europe of the tombs in order to reach the land where we will be men among other men. The distorted information about the Holocaust, which polluted not only the memory of the Islamic world, but also that of pieces of Western culture, according to Levi was the basis of the dangerous rise of anti-Semitism. Levi spoke of "knowledge." This 2015 is therefore a day of Memory that must take on a paradoxical situation, because anti-Semitism is constantly growing, fueled also by the irresponsibility of international institutions born to say "never more" to the Holocaust and then become enemy ideological corporations of the State of Israel, Israel, a great absentee so far from the debate in this House. The State of Israel is often even defined as the historical replica of Nazism. Yet Israel has always been a democracy under siege, forced to a perennial defense against those who deny the same legitimacy to existence. But to deny Israel's right to exist means to deny the right to self-determination of a people, it means to erase Jewish history, as it would like to do that infamous current of thought called negationism. Let's face it: Israel's security and the right to its existence are not "negotiable matters," just as it is not questionable that the Shoah was the greatest tragedy in the history of humanity. Today, on the Day of Memory, it is worth repeating that the uniqueness of the Shoah is a truth carved in history and that denialism is a fundamental weapon of contemporary anti-Semitism, an alarming increase in Europe and very rooted in the Islamic world, with terrorism that is often the armed arm of anti-Semitism. Madam President, Memory Day can never be a mere ritual anniversary, because the Holocaust of the Jewish people is imprinted in the history of man as the absolute evil and it is the duty of everyone to make him remain well sculpted in the consciousness of the world. Memory is a duty to a people who have been the victim of a lucid plan of extermination and is also a duty to the younger generations, to whom the awareness and knowledge of the past must be transmitted. Hell lived on earth by the Jewish people represented in history the exact opposite of reason and the very concept of humanity. On the Holocaust there is only one truth, which has already been tragically written, and those who try to manipulate it carry out another terrible crime against humanity. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u182	TRONTI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, seventy years ago, on this day, the Red Army entered the Auschwitz camp, carrying out a historic act of human liberation. The memory resists extraordinarily to the time; it is the disruptive force of the past that does not pass. They are still among us, scattered and hidden in the folds of Europe, the last rare protagonists who, with tears in their eyes, talk about how their childhood and adolescence were violently affected by that tragic experience. Primo Levi, in his interview with Enzo Biagi for Rai Uno in 1982, to the question of how that experience had changed his vision of the world, answers: This experience taught me many things, it was my second university, the real one. The lager matured me, not during, but after, thinking about everything I've experienced. There is this difference between memory and memory. The memory is of the individual and concerns his individual experience. Memory, on the other hand, is a collective fact and can also be defined as a social memory. This concept was developed by Aby Warburg, the great German scholar of the Italian Renaissance. His project of atlas of memory aimed at making the past usable for the present. The Greek term of memory, mnemosyne, is the name that indicates the mother of the nine museums. The usefulness and opportunity of this Memorial Day has been discussed for a long time in recent years. Someone wanted to see us a somewhat hypocritical way - he was also called by those who preceded me - of getting rid of the conscience from horrors that at that time we were not able to avoid. They're wrong. This ours is a time forgetful, prisoner of the immediacy of a present, which is not by chance considered to be eternal by now. It is the task of institutions, politics and culture to keep the thread of historical continuity in the transmission of inheritance from one generation to another. It is today the news of a survey that sees 81 percent of Germans claim a schlussstrich, a piece of pen that erases the memory of the Holocaust. This year's day comes shortly after the events of Paris; that cry we find at the end of that great book, which is "The Shadow Line," and that Joseph Conrad puts in his mouth the protagonist of so many massacres (the horror, the horror!) is still current. The tragic has not disappeared from history, perhaps it will never disappear. The democratic forces, in their optimism, sometimes even in their goodness, who see and want to see the unstoppable progress of humanity towards the best, seem to remain every time forbidden and unbelieving that the horror can be repeated. But so he finds himself unprepared for the right reaction. It's just with Je suis Charlie defeating terrorism. There is no absolute evil, there is no metaphysical evil: this would be incurable. We cannot repeat, with Primo Levi, his terrible phrase "There is Auschwitz," so there can be no God." There is an evil that is always historically determined, that must go to the root with the weapons of politics, with the intervention of the social forces organized. The tragic of history can only be effectively fought by the power of politics. But I don't want to end with these gloomy accents. The extermination camps actually also illuminate another face, another face of the human. It is these days the initiative to present to the Auditorium of Rome pieces of music composed in the fields, not tens or hundreds but, it seems, even thousands of small scores, written on precarious sheets, ripped, and fortunately saved; we could say submerged and saved, according to a well-known formula. It is true, then, that music is among the forms of expression that most reflect the depth of the soul, and this is all the more so in the experience of pain and the threat of death. On Memory Day it is good to evoke those figures who pass through the horror almost with the wings of the angel. Etty Hillesum, who in Auschwitz, in his diaries, writes that wonderful thought: When you have an inner life it doesn't matter where you are. Edith Stein, very fine intellectual, phenomenologist, pupil of Husserl, who with his faith rediscovered meets serene death, ahead of others. Figures of woman. Simone Weil, who is as if she had fallen into horror too, when she almost lets herself die, so as not to see what is happening. Here is the hope in the indestructibility of the human spirit, which always wins over violence in the end because it remains in history beyond violence. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups and from the government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u185	Mr Zavoli (PD). Madam President, Senator Tronti's words have such a hue that I am embarrassed to add mine to his. It's not memory time anymore. It delays the present and delays the future, it is said. To such a process, which has something monstrous, he has put hand who, having of existence and history a daily and indistinct feeling, would want to get rid of every previous responsible. Taking away our memory would mean depriving us of much of our identity and offering history the alibi of an innocence that it never had, it did not have, and it is good not to have even tomorrow. Being a man every day has to cost something, including memories. On the other hand, memory is not the heartfelt memory that is discovered in some archive of time, nor does it have in itself the world of things understood and misunderstood, faced and rejected. I know the net, the sweet and corrupting flattery of what I call to mind. I know what childhood was like in our Province, as in that stunned age we were inundated by desires, attracted by corrupt virtues, guided by warnings, waiting for destinies greater than ourselves. That peasant condition, forced and cramped, that continuous sleep of reason, which held together slender and fearful, that living with the chest outside and with the ideas already ready, in which it was taken a time in its happy way, because it coincided with youth, there is no magic of memory that can turn it into something less clumsy and pathetic, until one day things did not turn into drama and then into tragedy. Of course, the task of the next is to explain the first and this implies not only a political extrapolation of the collective affair. I do not refer to the abused, declamatory wisdom according to which those who do not know how to judge their history are destined to relive it: I simply say that a democratic and secular country has the duty first of all to judge itself and the solemn duty of rationality, combined with the even more serious duty of responsibility. The atomic system had made everyone smarter and a little more conscious. After Hiroshima and Nagasaki, for example, we listened to the words spoken as in confession by the fathers of the new civilization, to those of Albert Einstein: "All pacifists must have a purpose: to convince the peoples that war is the height of immorality"; and to those of Niels Bohr, Nobel Prize in Physics, who confided to Robert Oppenheimer: "Now, when I get an idea, I'm also tempted to commit suicide," or to Gandhi's reflection: "The world is tired of hatred, non-violence is the highest quality of the heart, it is a more active and real struggle of the same law of the taglone"; or to the nightmares of the pilot who had driven the aircraft of the atomic on Hiroshima, who continued to see every night women and children melt like candles, obsessed with the memory of that day, when he was a good boy, a disciplined soldier - the definition of his superiors -, a poor unconscious imbecile, according to what he said about himself later; or to Albert Camus' warning: "We see more and more that peace is the only battle in which it is worth fighting" or the Bernanos budget: "I've seen so many deaths in my life, but the most dead of all is the boy I was. Finally, I think of the epigraph of that Nuremberg judge who so blew the years of anger: Never had man denied himself so much, never with so much determination and ferocity. We are grayed in too much time allowed to forget, even to lie. Now, moreover, history no longer drags things along with the old slowness, but seems to make them run along with us. The historian Biagio De Giovanni has written, with a thread, if you want, of paradox that from now on the future must already be constantly in the actuality, forcing history in short to live with us, before our eyes, ready to be judged, while or as long as we are in time. To live history, in short, criticizing it, lying it, forcing it to be what benefits us, not what harms us, immediately and live. It is the case - allow some disproportionate quote - of Thucydides, who could claim to have lived the entire war of the Peloponnese, or of Basil Liddell Hart, the great military historian who regretted being able to arrange, for a study on the First World War, only autobiography and memoirs, from which he learned what the authors thought and felt after and not during the events. All this, when the speed of history - as the apocalyptic writes - is a continuous chase between information and catastrophe. But a man is a man for what his history has added to him and has taken away from him, for how he has lived the growths and deprivations, even for the way in which it lasts and falls apart in our memory. I wonder if, in taking his life, Primo Levi was attacked by the noise and silence left him by his story; just him who reminded us of the words of Jean Amery: A man who has been tortured remains tortured. I also want to think that Primo Levi died of memory. Memory is, in some way, what allows us to exist and to express ourselves. It - writes Borges, a writer, a poet very far from Levi's vocations and experience - is our consistency, our feeling, even our actions. Without memory we are nothing. All we have to do is wait for some sort of final amnesia that erases a lifetime. Over seventy years ago, an avant-garde of the Red Army entered the Auschwitz camp. The philosopher Theodor Adorno said that it would no longer be possible to write a poem. I think he was right when he pronounced against the aestheticization, to put it this way, of suffering, judging it as a way of transferring content within the frame, albeit noble, of effect and emphasis, rather than of naked judgment. Adorno's thesis, perhaps not entirely paradoxical, seemed clear to me listening to a Jewish woman interviewed in the television show "The days and history": the elderly lady, who had lost to Dachau all her loved ones and had escaped not known how to the gas chamber, said she wanted to live for a long time because, dead who saw, no one else, not even the most reputed of historians or writers or poets can make that crime credible. One day, she meant the woman, everything will remain entrusted to the willing, but incredible ideological reenactments, to the dramaturgic representations, if not even to the naive superficiality of the storytellers. A great generational leap, unpublished in its irrevocableness, has as wiped out the life and death of those who lived the immense shame of the century, the shoah. Today the world has a memory that begins here of the immense sin of the so-called "short century," so-called "short" because stunned and sowed by the effects of the speed that the ether has impressed on everything on the planet. I have seen and listened to our young people wonder at the recreating of a scenario in which we have seen life as halved, stolen, burned and now even denied, although 50 million crosses are there for everyone, not only for those who were there, to say that memory is not a faded conscience, that has already concluded its path, but what keeps that consciousness alive, because remembering in the sense that today we mean simply an ethical duty and making it pass the lesson along the generations is a fatherly pedagogy, that is, founded on a love of flesh and spirit, even before civil, that flows, I would say, in the veins of filial continuity before even on the pages dictated by history. A young man, Simone Lusso, wrote to Indro Montanelli - I remember well the shock of Indro and ours when we read in that room - saying tormented at the sight of the massacre of thousands and thousands of young people in Spielberg's film "Save Private Ryan" and asking the historian, as well as the journalist, what the tragic story had. Montanelli said, "Dear Simon, how old are you? I think there are few, few, if you're surprised that World War II cost the lives of so many young people like you or a little older. Who do you want them to be, wars, but young people? In the last one they have died (...) not to thousands, but to millions. And you had to wait for a movie to realize that? Haven't you ever read a book about World War II? (...) Mine is only amazement at the ignorance, which I detect from the letters of my young correspondents, of the facts (and what facts!) It happened not in the Middle Ages, but a few decades ago. (...) My boy. Montanelli, who did not normally make discounts, for the truth even to himself, had spared his reader the news that in those years 6 million Jews passed through the fireplace and that that genocide is called shoah. But who's to blame? Only with those kids, or with a school that produces citizens without the most basic knowledge, young people who are unprovoked and immature? "Everything I don't know," wrote Ennio Flaiano "I learned it at school" "I didn't spare teachers, teachers and teachers who received very little, for the truth, from their respective institutions, or much for the sacrifice they consumed every day in the name of growth and truth, in a country where history has no right to asylum, at least as far as what we are talking about. But it is impossible, as useless, to wonder what the destiny of man is, because we, all of us, are our destiny. I read from these notes at random, which I wrote just before reading them to you. It is a lively moment in our politics and it is the daily crowding of its problems, so we hear ourselves being reduced in this way, with the temptation to forget, with the idea that it is better to raise our children in disenchantment and in the idea that the world is better than it is described and that therefore it will be worth installing optimism instead of leaving young people in the idea of being almost irrelevant in the life of our country. One thing's for sure. The world today has a memory that begins on this side of that immense sin. I have in mind an example, naive and terrible, awakened from the innocence of the children interviewed many years ago, during the production of "Piazza Giudia," a short documentary intended for TV7. In an interval of filming, a young boy came near me, who, with a bit of zeal, tells me: My grandfather and grandmother came out of a fireplace after they burned them together with many other family members. In winter, I don't look at the roofs anymore. It impresses me to see the smoke coming out. A little girl brought me an old picture. She took it from a drawer and asked me if I wanted to film it. He did more. Suddenly he said, "If you want, you can keep it. We've got a lot of them. They're all dead people. They were my parents, brothers, relatives. They told me I only had a few months and I didn't see them. They couldn't see me, so I didn't die. One generation is enough, and for today's kids, there's only darkness behind it. At the gates of the Olimpico there is a young man with a civil appearance, who carries a sign on which it is written: "Hebrews: gassed or Ferrarelle?" An agent pulls it out of his hands and he kicks it in a shin. The officer, by emergency procedure and out of order, smashes the sign on his head. A few applause, but also some protests. It is a legacy of something that continues to last. It is misunderstanding, prejudice, ambiguity, ignorance. So there is a reason for us to come back to that today. We've done our duty. A feeling we hope to find again, and not only in this House, why we should no longer say, in the face of the tragedy of those years, that the butterflies (which were born with us on the day of creation) continued to rest indifferently on the defeated and the fallen winners. The dignity of man does not tolerate an absurd metaphor, which has only the poetic appearance, in reality of an almost naturalistic nature, which makes one of those who honor it and of those who trample it. As for negationism, the word is already unholy and even infamous. [[Live, prolonged applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u186	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u187	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u188	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I rise to ask for the third time for a reply to Question No 300618, which I tabled on 9 January 2014, concerning the industrial complex of the ironworks in Servola, Trieste. I have tried to have an answer both in formal and informal ways, but I have not yet had this pleasure. In the question I simply ask what was the state of implementation of the prescriptions, as a result of the surveys that have been carried out from all the agencies involved (there was also the harbour authority in the role of observer); if there had been of the participations from the Ministry of the environment as previewed from the directional provision and, in case negative, what were the motivations; if there had been of the inefficiencies from the competent offices. On 21 November 2014, in the presence of the President of the Council, the program agreement for the implementation of the integrated project of safety, industrial conversion and economic and productive development of the area of the ironworks of Servola was signed. What is the current situation after the arrival of the new property of the company Arvedi of Cremona? It was expected that this would be the first step towards a less impactful project for the environment, but instead we are at the starting point, or perhaps we took a step back, given what trade unionists have reported in a local television show. Gaseous fumes and dust continue. In this regard I invite everyone to see what is posted on the Facebook group of Ferriera di Servola and what is the amount of black dust that is still collected in these days by citizens on the terraces of the houses adjacent to the plant. The noises continue near the houses, so we also talk about noise pollution. There was a hope, with an incipit of the president of the association "No smog" Alda Sancin, whom I thank, along with secretary Adriano Tasso, who have been following closely this story for years. We expected a safety of the plants and, instead, we are always the same. In fact, even after yet another change of ownership, the promises made fade: we are talking about a doubling of the blast furnace, a coking plant that should be abandoned in favour of the construction of a cold rolling plant, as was said. I therefore call for an answer and I reserve the right to take further action to ensure the health of citizens, workers, the protection of the environment and compliance with existing legislation. In this regard, I would remind you that the prosecutor has opened a file and we hope that a conclusion will be reached. Even if I will not be present tomorrow, I make myself spokesperson of all the requests that will come from a meeting that will be between the unions and property. I also ask that the Municipality and the Region take action to start a new path in practice and that we finally manage to tackle this environmental problem with due firmness. I would remind you that the first citizen has the opportunity to issue an order to arrange for the interruption - albeit temporary - of installations. In this way, it would perhaps be possible to have at least one adaptation of the structures, preventing them from continuing to produce under certain conditions. I think if there was a break in industrial production, the whole city would be thankful to Mayor Cosolini. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Padua.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u189	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u191	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am speaking because I read about the press this morning, with reference to events that took place last Saturday in Cremona (of which I believe you all know), that the Quaestor and Prefect of Cremona authorized, without taking into account the negative opinion expressed officially by the mayor, the performance of the band 99 Posse in the social center "Dordoni". During the whole day of last Saturday, several violent clashes took place with the police; the windows of many shops and banking institutions were devastated; even the command of the local police was attacked: a real urban guerrilla. There is still all the damage that has happened. Nevertheless, there is a possibility that another similar situation will be repeated on Thursday 29 February. This morning I put a question to the Minister because, while I understand the concerns of the police station and the prefect to authorise this demonstration in the social centre in order to limit another possible guerrilla war, we ask whether the Minister is aware of what has happened and whether he has endorsed this decision. Can the Minister intervene to give the police and public order guardians the appropriate tools to avoid what happened on Saturday? We are now on a kind of bow, because we authorize this music group, which began with a phrase of the type "Honor to those who struggle." More sticks less keyboards!It's something we think absurd. We ask for the Minister's intervention because we consider everything that is happening to be shameful. It shows an almost remissive system in front of such violent people. The citizens of Cremona have suffered what I have described, but those of other cities could also suffer the same situation. In the face of such a situation, the Minister must intervene and do something. Madam President, I would ask you to be the bearer of this request on the danger that might arise next Thursday in Cremona. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We are going to make demands because it seems to us to be a very serious and significant fact.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u192	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u193	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u194	PUPPATE (PD). Madam President, on 29 May last year, the so-called art-bonus decree was issued, which Parliament clearly considered very important, if it converted it by 29 July, and then tried all the procedures in two months. That decree had value for many of us because it allowed 65 percent to be deducted from all those who made donations to public bodies in connection with the restoration of monuments, theatres, libraries and so on. Part of this decree, in particular - I am referring to Article 10 - was very much expected and considered very important and important, providing for the granting of a 30% in terms of tax credit for all the companies in the tourism sector that intend to invest in order to restructure their reality in function of efficiency and modernity, requalifying the activity, digitizing and, therefore, placing themselves in an increasingly competitive market like that of tourism, in which Italy has to recover many points. It has happened that the implementing decrees have been issued, but not for Article 10, so 30% of tax credit is still beyond to come for many companies in the sector. Before speaking in this Chamber, I naturally informed myself at the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, which has punctually referred to me that I have already issued the decree of competence, but that, since it is a complex decree, the involvement of three other ministries (economics and finance, transport and economic development) is envisaged. It is also envisaged, at the end of this ministerial process, that the State-Regions Conference be convened, that the Court of Auditors be authorized and finally published in the Official Journal. I say this because, if everything had been done in due time - and therefore within 90 days - we would have exactly from September this year this important fiscal potential, which can also produce work, which is waiting, with projects already authorized by the municipal administrations. Being rather vague the moment when a decree so important and important for the tourism sector can really enter into force, we risk that it will not yet succeed in the course of 2015. My speech is, therefore, aimed at making a very strong request to the three ministries involved in addition to MIBAC - I repeat - who have not yet issued their notation with respect to the decrees, in order then to allow the State-Regions Conference to meet quickly, because the waiting outside is very strong and, after a year, it is not conceivable that there is not this opportunity that was promised, in fact, about a year ago. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u195	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u197	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, after the approval of the 'Sfascia-Italia', I honestly would not have wagered a single euro - or perhaps today it would be better to say a drama - on Renzi environmentalista. And instead, I have to believe: Renzi saves the Woods. Yes, the Woods: Maria Elena and Father Pierluigi. I already know that you will find a justification also on this umpteenth crap of the People's Bank of Etruria and Lazio, if ever a justification of honor, but let's retrace some of the history. We have a Minister who forgets that his father is the Vice President of the Etruria People's Bank, who recorded - citizens - a leap of 66 percent in the days before the approval of a measure, the investment compact, launched by the Government on 20 January. This leap has put an end to years of deep difficulties, which have led that bank to the edge of the police station. It is a bank that, since 2012, has been the center of two inspections of the Bank of Italy, which ended in November 2014 with a total fine of about 2.5 million euros. The maxisanzione is charged to 18 people, between members and former members of the union college of the cda, including Pierluigi Boschi, father of the Minister, sanctioned with 144,000 euros for violation of provisions on governance, deficiencies in the organization, in the internal controls and in the management of the control of the credit, as well as omitted and incorrect reports to the supervision. There is a difference: in Abruzzo, for a bank like this, CariChieti, the Bank of Italy proposes the commissioning; in the Grand Duchy of Tuscany, instead, no. We have a minister who forgets to own a package of shares - few, very few - of the same bank administered by his father. The investment compact introduced - I remind the citizens - the obligation for the ten largest popular banks to become public limited companies within 18 months. The "Corriere della Sera" has reconstructed that, initially, the provision was contained in a bill on competition, parked at the Ministry of Economic Development, waiting to follow the normal parliamentary process. Despot Renzi took the article on the capitarian vote by surprise and inserted it in the decree: who was aware of what the Premier was doing? Gerevini, of the "Corriere della Sera," wonders how many and what hands that text has passed, highly price sensitive. We have already announced an exposure to CONSOB: the verification operation is certainly not simple, because from the English square also the networks spread towards tax havens. Serious trouble for the Renzi Executive if, among the various international investors active on the market, the Algebris fund of Davide Serra, friend, forger, as well as financial guru of the Florentine Renzi were identified. Morgan Stanley's former manager's hedge fund is based in London. We citizens strongly demand that the government come to Parliament to respond in this proservative and arrogant way to deal with the comminglings between public and private interests. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u198	Colleagues, I would remind you that Parliament is convened at 3 p.m. on Thursday 29 January.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-385.ana.u199	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. The Senate will be summoned at home. The sitting was closed at 7.19 p.m.
