ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u4	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Mr President, while 18 other people died in the Sicilian Channel yesterday - this is a prerequisite for a serious situation - and the President of the Region changes the fortieth regional councillor, I request the vote on the Minutes, after checking the quorum. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on document IV, No 8, which contains: Request for authorization to execute the order applying the precautionary measure of house arrests issued by the judge for preliminary investigations against Senator Antonio Azzollini in the context of criminal proceedings pending against him (No 230/12 RGNR - No 2994/12 RG GIP) for the offences referred to in Articles: 1) 416, paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 5 of the Criminal Code (association for criminals); 2) 319-c of the penal code (induction to give or promise utility); 3) 110 and 117 of the penal code, 223, paragraph 1, 216, paragraph 1, number 1, and 219, paragraph 1, of the Royal Decree of 16 March 1942, n. 267 (competition in fraudulent bankruptcy, fraudulent bankruptcy competition); 4) 110 of the penal code, 223, paragraph 1, 216, paragraph 1, number 1, and 219, paragraph 1, of the Royal Decree of 16 March 1942, n. 267 (competition in fraudulent bankruptcy, fraudulent bankruptcy); 5) 110 and 81, paragraph, of the penal code, 223, paragraph 1, and 216, paragraph 1, number 1, of the Royal Decree of 16 March 1942, n. 267 (competition in fraudulent bankruptcy, fraudulent bankruptcy competition); 6) 110 and 117 of the penal code, 224, 217, number 4, and 219, paragraph 1, of the Royal Decree of 16 March 1942, n. 267 (competition in simple bankruptcy, competition in simple bankruptcy), transmitted by the court of Trani. The reports of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities have already been printed and distributed. I would remind you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided by a majority to propose to the Assembly to grant authorization for the execution of the implementing order of the precautionary measure of house arrests against Senator Antonio Azzollini, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Stefano, whether he intends to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u9	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce myself in the reasoning which supported my proposal to the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and which today, following its approval, calls into question this House by appropriately moving from the point of view of the reflections which have so far accompanied the work of the body which I have the honour to preside over. The Law of 20 June 2003, n. 140, laying down provisions for the implementation of Article 68 of the Constitution as well as for criminal proceedings against the high offices of the State, in Article 3 strengthens and I believe that it explains well the meaning of the judicial insincability of the Members of Parliament in the part where it explains that Article 68, first paragraph, of the Constitution applies in any case for the submission of drafts or proposals of laws, amendments, agendas, motions and resolutions, for questions and questions, for interventions in the Assemblies and other organs of the Chambers, for any expression of vote formulated, however, for any other parliamentary act, for any other inspection, disclosure, criticism and political denunciation activities, connected to the function of parliamentarians, carried out also outside the Parliament. The protection of the parliamentary function and the constitutional right of the same to express its own point of view in all the forms in which the function expresses itself contain the sense of punitive healing and the compression of the ordinary protection and judicial procedure, the restriction of which is therefore implemented, under these conditions, in proportion to the purpose for which the limitation takes place. I would like to express the concept in another way. The assumption of a position in a political sense can not be a union and sanctioned and, therefore, cannot be pursued by the judicial authority, whose ordinary competence stops - so important is this parliamentary freedom - well before the actual and acclaimed persecution, but already on the threshold of fumus, of the appearance of political persecution. Both this of the magistrate himself, animated by personal dissent, or of a third stranger who vehicles his own punitive and persecutory instance through the impulse to mandatory criminal initiative, the member of the parliamentary assembly cannot see limited his representative function because of a procedural initiative that derives from a probable or possible persecutory intent. The fumus persecutionis is therefore exactly the logical enclosure of the reflections that must accompany the reasoning also in this assembly. It is the firm conviction of the Presidency of the Council, and on several occasions also shared by its majority, that the parliamentary guarantee body (because it is) cannot in any way qualify as a body of jurisdiction and can therefore in no way achieve any further procedural union than that provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure, nor can it in any way give in to the temptation to set up a systemic privilege for the parliamentarians, as hateful as it is not easily explained from the constitutional and supranational point of view. Coming to the case that today calls us to express ourselves, the full-bodied request from the investigative and decision-making judiciary, assisted by significant evidence, represents a logical and legal point of view worthy of attention, as well as the equally reasonable request of my colleague Azzollini to see received his own defensive arguments, supported by an alternative reasoning to that contained in the request for a precautionary measure of house arrests. The two truths (that, so to speak, accusatory and defensive) possess a dignity and reasonableness that, as far as I am concerned, neither the Council nor the Assembly can in any way be a dissident in the form of an unlikely ascertainment of merit. Unless we want to have access to the approach that the Senate Council, even in recent times, has already collectively considered that it does not have to share: judicial nature, self-dedication, rules of fair trial, thirdness and consequent abstention or objection, are issues that have already emerged in the reflection, first in Junta and then in Assembly, and resolved in the terms of an overall view opposed to the idea of a special jurisdiction, of a degree of judgment parallel to the ordinary one, of a second time able even to overlap and neutralize the first judicial time. The logical and legal revision of the precautionary point of view is of course possible, but it is entrusted, for the parliamentarians as well as for the ordinary citizen, to the legitimate but autonomous forms of procedural discussion - from the review to the degree of legitimacy - as procedural appointments of a fair process and a fair balance between different points of view in such a sensitive matter, such as that of the personal freedom of citizens. The Assembly of the Senate, and even before the Council, is responsible for an overall reading aimed at understanding the existence or not of a political persecution expressed in the forms of a judicial dynamic, possibly spoiled by fumus and in this sense, only in this sense, insincere and intolerable and, therefore, censorable by our parliamentary control. Once again, as rapporteur and President of the Junta, I am convinced that I must escape the binary logic of the guilty versus innocent, accusation versus defense, and instead must lead the reasoning to the sole and exclusive assessment expressed in the syntagma that translates the sense of the constitutional protection from which I have taken the move: nothing more, nothing less than fumus persecutionis. This particular angle of observation also explains what, otherwise, might appear an unnatural dialectical imbalance, that is, the faculty of the parliamentarians to expose their own conviction - as precisely to the presence of fumus - in the absence of a guarantee contradictory with the part to which the semblance of persecution is charged, proof of a logical trace that contains the sense of the union joint and senatorial, interested in the parliamentary function, in the case in question told by Senator Azzollini, and the derived hostility, entrusted also to the story of the senator concerned, of which precisely the judicial initiative would be directed or indirect derivation. There is no exchange of views, there is no debate between the persecutor and the persecutor, there is no room for proof against; the senator can widely say and support everything he considers relevant about the suffered persecution, knowing that he must document his own point of view and offer it unilaterally to the debate. It is so important that the stakes, that is, political and parliamentary freedom, should be allowed the widest demonstration of a persecution that is not otherwise confrontable, if not with the help of a college of colleagues, and I stress these two terms again: "collegio" and "colleghi" (colleghi). In this sense, to re-read and re-hear the defence of Senator Azzollini, the procedure of which we are called to deal, in the particular form of authorization to the request for house custody, would be linked to the persecution suffered by these on account of some initiatives attributable to him: first, a particular legislative political direction in favour of the institution; second, an hostility of the office proceeding as a result of a refusal for a different investigation, also curated by the same prosecutor; thirdly, an anonymous closeness of the extraordinary commissioner, contiguous to the idea accused, with professional linked by relation with another magistrate, belonging to the same prosecutor's office; fourth, the presentation by Senator Azzollini of a criminal complaint and an exposed to the Supreme Council of the judiciary vis-à-vis magistrates who, in the different and cited investigation always at his expense, would have exercised their functions in a disciplined manner and, even, relevant from the criminal point of view; finally, a personal hostility of the main witness of the accusation, indictire inconcered and contradictory statements. Indeed, the evidence of such declared persecution remains confined in a documentation, in my opinion rather fragile and perhaps exposed to dramatic logical contradictions. So I will briefly address the points I have just listed. We begin with the legislative direction in favour of the institution, sponsored, according to the accusation, by Senator Azzollini, who in the accusatory idea represents only a part of the complex dynamic of which the anomaly is suspected and is therefore far from, in my opinion, to mention a reason for resentment and persecution carried out by other ways. In other words, the legislative union - assuming that it can be exercised or de facto exercised - is connected exactly to the type of investigation carried out by the investigative prosecutors, who believe that they find evidence of an accusatory point of view within the process for which it is the cause and which expresses, if anything, the search for an overall logic, and not the opportunity of persecution by judicial means. Therefore, the persecutory intention remains unlikely, as much as the idea of being able to directly review the legislative choice, on which no control of criminal law can be imagined. Respect, however, to the alleged hostility of the office proceeding, I believe it is opportune to point out that the so-called and known investigation on the port of Molfetta belongs in reality - as well as the request of use of the intercepts - to magistrates other than those that have asked the application of the precautionary measure today and equally different turns out the gip that has signed the precautionary order, which excludes to be able to consider that a relationship of cause and effect is manifested between the one and the other the procedural initiative, unless of not to arrive to the incredible deduction of believing that the dissatisfaction of some magistrates can be the cause of a sought satisfaction from others, in an incredible corporate vision, clearly antithetical to the idea of service and search for the truth, that guides - except contrary proof - the procedural initiatives of the individual magistrates. In the same way, with respect to the anomalous closeness between the special commissioner and the professional relative of another magistrate, I have already had the opportunity to point out in Junta that the deputy prosecutor, whose brother would have received legal assignment from the extraordinary commissioner, is also a stranger to the criminal proceedings we are dealing with, nor can it be sincerely argued that the assignment entrusted to external professional may meet some key reading that gives us certain elements in favor of the supposed fumus persecutionis. Again, here I would just point out that in relation to the criminal complaint and the exposition to the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the magistrates attracted to the reports presented by Senator Azzollini - and apparently not followed by conclusive initiatives - are also different from the two prosecutors who signed the request and the gip signatory of the order. There is more, if anything there was a need, because the argument encounters a further and definitive denial, in the view expressed by the review court, whose collegial and even authoritative composition removes the already remote possibility of a judicial conspiracy spoiled by fumus persecutionis, which would have pervaded, at this point, the judgment of six magistrates, the last three - those of the review - also geographically distant from the events mentioned in this reflection, because belonging to other prosecutors. Finally, on the alleged hostility of the main witness of accusation, the full evidence of almost 20 faldones and thousands of documents, placed on the basis of the precautionary request - naturally readable in an accusatory key, as well as in a defensive key, and of course mayorable by the first and immediate control of legality before the review court, as well as by the subsequent verification of legitimacy - allows us to look at the fumus persecutionis of the aforementioned witness of accusation as only one of the argumentative dowels on which the request on which we are called to express ourselves is built. This is the reason why, as much as I argued in my analysis briefly, but I hope exhaustively, not seeing the request fumus persecutionis, the Giunta approved my report, in favour of granting authorization to execute the precautionary measure of house arrests issued by the judge for preliminary investigations at the Trani court against his colleague, Senator Antonio Azzollini. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the minority rapporteur, Senator D'Ascola, whether he intends to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u10	Mr President, I believe that we must clear the field entirely in advance of a misunderstanding which could, in a sense, distort the Senate's assessment. I refer to the fact that the intervention of the court of freedom can place the senators in a position to be able to decide differently from what the judiciary has already done, not only because of the logical paradox towards which such an assessment would push us, but also for a whole series of considerations aimed at preserving the functions of this Assembly, their effectiveness, but above all of the need to give a content to that opinion which Article 68 of the Constitution and Law No 140 of 2003 refer to the Assembly. I spoke of a logical paradox: if the Court of Liberty had revoked the order of custody under house arrest, it is clear that the Senate and, before that, the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities would not have had any opportunity to intervene. However, we should come to the same conclusion if we were to marry the opposing interpretation, i.e. if, having decided the court of freedom, we simply had to put ourselves back to that assessment: in a case like the other one, the Senate would have no chance of intervening and the judgment would be returned exclusively to the judiciary. It is certainly not a question of removing anything from the necessary and uneliminable assessment, but of making sense of that principle of preserving the functions that we are given back to and that Article 68 of the Constitution which states that, in any case, the judicial authority has decided, we must then make that political judgment which is condensed in Article 68 itself. And then the intervention of the judicial authority, which we respect most, is not preclusive of a different assessment on our part only that we evaluate the essential point on the issue constituted by the difference of object of the two judgments: if the two judgments have different diameters, in the differentiation of the object of the judgment we grasp precisely autonomy. Turning to the subject that has been dealt with in the majority report, there has been talk of fumus persecutionis. I leave out the events that would give life to fumus persecutionis. However, let me point out that we must give a content, we must give blood to this category. Fumus persecutionis, in the tradition of our parliamentary jurisprudence, is divided into three different and alternative forms. The first is what is said purely indicative, but absolutely unreal as regards the case of its concrete realization, of a persecutory intent arson, which would obviously in itself constitute a crime. Then there is a fumus persecutionis that is understood to exist even when it involves modalities and times, in the exercise of the prosecution, that ingenerate the suspicion of a risk and of a possibility, even abstract, of persecutory intent, also for faultless facts. Finally, there is the last category, the one consisting of a fumus persecutionis recto and supported by a manifest violation of the law and an unfoundedness of the request proposed by the judicial authority. As you can see, fumus persecutionis is a broad category, but it has the characteristic of determining however an access to the evaluation of the acts placed by the judicial authority. Otherwise, it would be impossible to understand what assessment of the timing and manner of the action or assessment of the merits of the action might mean. I wrote - and I allow myself in a very synthetic way to repeat - that, if these expressions cannot certainly mean a sort of union on the activity of the judicial authority (i.e. to claim to assess the validity, reliability and historicity of the evidence), however, this assessment must somehow allow a kind of judgment of legitimacy, assessing the adequacy, the appropriateness, the logic, the completeness of the motivation and the risk of possible violations of the law. So we give for sure what the judicial authority has written: the union is limited to an assessment that we define to be an assessment of legitimacy (law vice or vice of motivation). But the point from which we have to start is the following. The fumus persecutionis, which we have described in its three alternative categories, is the element that fully resolves the judgment put to the House? If we do not define either the rule of judgment or the object of judgment, it is clear that we do not have a reference polar star and therefore we should act in some irrational, illogical way, dictated by sensations and subjective assessments rather than by case-law data. On this point we have certain points of reference, which are taken not only in the case law of the Junta and of the Assembly, but also - and here even - stresses the importance of the ruling - in a well-known judgment of the Constitutional Court, No 110 of 1988. The Court, precisely with regard to the limits of the union that is carried out, pursuant to Article 68 of the Constitution, with regard to the scope of Law No 140 of 2003, has drawn up a concept, that of continence, namely the need to limit to the maximum the cases of deprivation of the personal freedom of parliamentarians, not of course because the guarantee constitutes a subjective privilege, but because it condenses an objective guarantee: the guarantee concerning the public and collective interest to the maintenance of the integrity of the plenum. However, the Constitutional Court (but also our internal parliamentary jurisprudence) has made it absolutely clear that fumus is not the only object of the judgment that is returned to us. If we were to believe that fumus persecutionis, even in the three alternative forms that I have allowed myself to describe, was non-existent, nevertheless we should make a further judgment, what the Constitutional Court and our jurisprudence identify with the Latin phrase of quid pluris, that is that element that evaluates the exact point of balance between punitive interest and collective interest in maintaining the integrity of the plenum. This is the statement that is derived from a constitutional jurisprudence that separates the two aspects: fumus and, to put it in a single noun, the untenableness of the arrest. However, if these are the comments that I would like to make, if it is a question of deciding whether the arrest of Senator Azzollini is really imperative because of the need for us exclusively to ensure the inalterability of the plenum, we must be clear in saying that the judicial authority could not act otherwise. The request for house arrests against Senator Azzollini, on the separate side of what is returned to the judicial authority, inevitably led to a symmetrical request for house arrests. How could those judges have requested and ordered the arrest of two religious and other citizens and then told them independently, in violation of a principle of equality between citizens: "Senator Azzollini, unlike other citizens, could not be arrested"? But this, ladies and gentlemen, is a weakness of those who ask you to authorise the arrest of Senator Azzollini, because this assessment is exclusively within the interests of the trial. It gives only one side, an area of demonstration of how the judiciary must necessarily lead, but it still tells us nothing on the separate side, to us exclusively put back, of how we must lead to give content, meaning, meaning to a rule that says that we must, despite everything, authorize the deprivation of the personal freedom of Senator Azzollini, that article 68 of the Constitution precisely - and I return here circularly to the initial part of my speech - the arrest that cannot be decided on the basis of the same members who led the judgment of the judicial authority because otherwise it would be worth so much - it was said that the Junta no longer existed, that the House did not intervene in any way, that Article 68 was immediately repealed. So, if this is the parameter, I said, the object of a judgment that, being precisely differentiated as to its objective component, allows a differentiated evaluation in respect of this difference of object between what the judicial authority has said and what is returned to us, I just have to conclude by listing, in an extremely fast way, some very important passages. Serious clues: I don't describe the serious clues. I am saving the House the trouble; colleagues have, moreover, read the reports of the majority and minority and know the facts. However, there is a point about serious indications that we absolutely cannot overlook, with a justified accusation of superficiality in the assessment. It is said in the order that Senator Azzollini would use the votes expressed (and here the first paragraph of Article 68 of our Constitution returns, and not by chance) to determine advantages consisting of a fiscal and contributory moratorium in favour of the ecclesiastical body. On this point I can make a whole series of criticisms of this, which I would like to express, of course, without prejudice to your differing views on the matter, which are entirely justified. In the meantime, if it was a tax and contribution moratorium, it seems strange to believe that it may have led to an acceleration and not a delay in the occurrence of the event of the declaratory judgment of bankruptcy. Moreover, Senator Azzollini was not the only one who voted for that amendment and that whole set of legislative provisions. Others voted for it and not only in the Senate but, in a system characterized by perfect bicameralism, the House of Deputies also shared these assessments and then the statement does not even stand up to the fact. Moreover, that legislative measure was directed towards an entire national territory and many other recipients who benefited from it. However, beyond such considerations that are, in a certain sense, subordinate, there is one principal: Senator Azzollini, for a substantial section of that ordinance, responds for the votes cast in the performance of his duties. This is a foreclosed field, unless permission is given. The Junta should also have authorized this aspect: opinions given and votes cast, otherwise there is an immunity under criminal law, not a banal institute of procedural law, under which authorisation is required. We are not the target of the criminal law if we act by expressing votes or by expressing our opinions. We have, therefore, an entire section of the order, an aspect that is also appreciated during the debate, which cannot be used in any way. There is another side to be taken into account - and here I will be very brief - as a result of Law No. 47 of 2015, just voted on April 16, on protective custody. I was saying, and I don't think I contradict myself, that our assessment is in terms of vice of law. We don't get into the facts. Let us not say that a certain fact is false, it is not true or it is not reliable. We give for certain, historically, everything that the judicial authority tells us. The current situation is a new requirement introduced by a law that we have just voted on April 16, 2015. This law says that protective custody can only be arranged if the precautionary requirements are current. Well, we have here an order - that is the material I use, giving it for sure - which tells us that the extraordinary commissioner was appointed in December 2013 but that then some activities of Senator Azzollini, as reported by Commissioner Cozzoli in an uncertain way (because he does not give us temporal and factual coordinates and does not make detailed statements in this regard, so much so that the needs, on this side, cannot even be considered concrete because it is not concrete what is uncertain from the historical point of view), aimed at the appointment of two commissioners who should have joined him, would have stopped anyway in June 2014. That is the case, but we are opposed to the fact that this circumstance lays down a precautionary requirement which dates back to one year before the request to issue a house arrest order. So, ladies and gentlemen, not only is this a term in the interval of which nothing happens, as a sign of a persistent interest in the control of the religious body, but we are certain that what had happened, giving it in truth, stops at a year before the request for capture. Can we, with a rhetorical question, define today a precautionary requirement that stops at a year ago? This same law, which I quote for the second time, introduces another element: you, judge, cannot draw precautionary requirements from facts that are considered serious. It cannot, in short, be merely a statement of seriousness of the matter. Beyond this insurmountable, I only allow myself to consider it such, a limit in terms of legitimacy and therefore of violation of the rules that were to apply to this trial, it is clear that alongside that commissioner from today, indeed since the trial arose, we have the prosecutor of the Republic with the importance of the role, the instruments that are being put back to him and with his personal authority. In short, how could Azzollini, in recalling that letter c) of Article 274 (the risk of recurrence) of the code of criminal procedure, commit similar facts, if this perimeter is guarded so authoritatively and especially if the precautionary requirements stop a year ago and in the intermediate period Azzollini has committed nothing that can actualize the risk of a relapse? To conclude, Mr President, if you had only given me twenty seconds and not this greater margin of time, I would have used only one argument, because I would have stoned myself in demonstrating the reason why I would ask the Senate not to authorize the request for custody under Senator Azzollini's house arrests. We have a request for the issue of an order that should admit Senator Azzollini to house arrest, i.e. an order that identifies completely attenuated precautionary requirements: it is in the law, this is not a claim of the counter-rapporteur (to qualify me with this expression), because Article 275 of our criminal procedure code prescribes house arrests only (here is the criterion of choice between the various measures that are in the availability of the judge) in case the precautionary requirements are not insuperable, are not very serious. It is a plan of mitigation, of weakening the precautionary requirements that allows the issuance of the provision of house arrests; otherwise, if the precautionary requirements are strong and insuperable otherwise, there is the prison. This is what criminal procedural law lays down, I do not say so, and it is therefore clear that we must compare that inderogability, which is not an abstract concept and which then has to be related to the concrete case, to the case to be assessed. Unnegotiableness would be an empty formula if one claimed - with an expression - to define it in a generalizing way: the inderogability is that of the case by case, of the concrete story. In short, in concrete terms, we find ourselves expressing ourselves on precautionary requirements mitigated by law and deemed such by the judge. In this case no one is allowed to make judgements that go against that decision, but we are judges of another thing: the object of the judgment returned to us is differentiated. Then can we really believe that attenuated precautionary requirements are imperative, if by law and by judge's assessment they were considered such that they could be exempted, for how unequivocally testifies to the provision? I have really finished and apologise to the Senate for entertaining him perhaps too long. I believe that in these considerations, especially in what I have allowed myself to write to give body, content and blood to my intervention, there are all the reasons for my request not to allow Senator Azzollini to be arrested. [[Applause from the AP groups (NCD-UDC) and FI-PdL XVII and Senator Repetti. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u11	I declare the debate open. Senator Di Maggio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for those who sit on these benches for the first time, it has not been possible to oppose, at the beginning of this mandate, the formula of the benefit of inventory, and that is how the mere fact of sitting in this House is that everything that bad politics, and consequently some politicians, have done in recent years, has been united. And certainly the policy of the last few years has largely demerited, either for committees or for omissions. On these despicable behaviors, they found space and fertile ground on the one hand demagogues and populists and on the other, a judiciary more interested in covering the power gaps than in the addition of institutional voids. If we add to all this the cultural level of the current Italian journalism, more and more contiguous and close to the gossip of the pink chronicle, that of the pens - to understand us - that write what the eye can peek from the hole of the lock, rather than the investigative journalism that opens the doors open to lights of truth, here, if this is the picture of the whole, the mixture is not only explosive, but becomes a bad lie, treacherous, perfidious and - allow me - especially vulgar. Azzollini becomes an emblematic and, in my opinion, a scabrous summa. I'll see you soon enough. The vocabulary of the Italian language is among the widest in the world, the words therefore have weight and strength and if the words have weight and strength, they can become a formidable weapon, wonderful sometimes, deadly others, because the words you can read, you can hear them, but the thing we do less notice is that the words you can also see them. Yes, because they become very often images, effects that produce sensations. Bullets can kill, words can carnage. And I, frankly, have never been afraid and I would then like to repeat them in this House, not to exorcise them but to put them back in place, to contextualize them and consequently remove them from their anode path and finally defuse them and leave them to fill the mouth and the pages of those with vulgarity have normal custom. "I piss in your mouth": in these words lies the whole way of the Cross of Senator Antonio Azzollini. Words repeated obsessively, bouncing on printed paper and television in pervicacious attempt to demonize politics all. Yes, because if someone had escaped, Senator Azzollini attacked the Palace, politics, caste and in the General Babel, all of us, even those who could not benefit from the inventory benefit, are attacked. These are the words, in short, the lay and poisonous meal that the pussycats that lignano in every editorial staff that respect have offered to the soft and rancorous belly of a country unable to look inside, and since nothing gives more pleasure to the pussycats than to benefit from the sufferings of others, being unknown merits, critical ability and minimal tools of autonomy, press and television have continued to bounce these words until they also break critical consciences as could be mine: "But if they are on telephone interceptions," I said, "then these words were spoken by Senator Azzollini." But I know Senator Azzollini, I have frequented him in these two years and I have often also tormented him, asking him explanations of why politics was so deeply committed to hurting the entrepreneurial system of our country. I've been in your office a lot. It is an office full of books, newspapers and maniac newspaper clippings and, where there is culture, where there is knowledge, there can never be vulgarity. To Senator Azzollini, for his own sake, if anything you could sew on the dress of Cecco Angiolieri. If it were fire, I'd burn the world could say Senator Azzollini, just to reward his Apulian slang. But triviality doesn't, definitely not. Triviality cannot have a field where there is culture. Senator Azzollini couldn't have said those words. So, I read the documents and from them I have confirmed that those words are actually a de report. She was heard by a witness in a room next to her in a day between 2005, 2006 and 2007, as confirmed by the strangely zealous questions of the magistrates. But meanwhile Azzollini is skinned alive, offended and - I would say - already guilty, condemned. This is the fetid game of a rotten communication, made by those pussycats, whose only dowry is that of flattery. The trials, as is well known, are no longer done in the courts, but in the bars, in the living rooms and in the televisions and in the squares where the new Saint Just enlist the crowd arming poisonous bites of lies. If the various Di Battistas, instead of playing statesmen, had spent more time on the books, they would keep memories of the violence, the massacres and, above all, the sleep of reason that the street trials have represented over the centuries also of our neighboring history. But, so much, if you don't get blood out of turnips, the less genius you can get out of it. I was talking about the sleep of reason, Senator Stephen. You militate in a party that should have at heart the reasons for reason because they derive from them values such as truth, justice, freedom and democracy. However, the verdict that your Commission has reached seems to me to be more inspired by the reasons for political marketing than by evidence. I will not linger in subtle delicacies concerning fumus persecutionis and other legal subtleties. I have read the papers received from Trani's attorney and two things seem obvious to me: the first is that there is not the slightest reason to take away personal freedom from Senator Azzollini; the second, which is perhaps the most annoying, is that once again through facts of judicial reporting the judiciary - I use a euphemism - wants to put politics under protection because, by grace, if votes of parliamentary committees, if not even votes of a branch of Parliament, can be pointed to as a trigger of criminal facts or we are in delirium judicial or this is a country that has turned upside down. And these facts cannot and must not have passed under silence. The role of the judiciary is not to control legality. This role, dear God, belongs to politics. The judiciary is responsible for the repression of lawlessness; it is the jurisdiction, not the politics. This should be up to us and perhaps it is time that we deal with this. There is no longer the Berlusconian moloch for which reform of justice would be tantamount to finding punitive forms against a pro-communist judiciary. If we start, for example, with reforms, such as the MSM reform, we could move from what is currently appearing and leading as a sort of council of supreme mercy to a real governing body, a Supreme Council of the judiciary as a body capable of assessing also the moral legitimacy of certain acts. Please, don't think about a further escape forward. How can we believe that the acts on Senator Azzollini are credible if they come from a palace of justice where proxy substitutes, in league with judges instructors and lawyers, ordain such and many crimes that even need a book of their fellow magistrate to detect its size and size? So? How do we put it? What do we do? Let's do the floors one more time? Do we give up our role and sacrifice Senator Azzollini to the wind of anti-politics? No, ladies and gentlemen, although I have not been given the option of an inventory benefit, I would like to speak and defend the reasons of politics, of the serious one, which does not run away and does not hide and which does not abdicate to its function. For all these reasons, I will vote against Senator Azzollini's request for arrest, but I will do so mainly because I will never be willing to sacrifice the dignity of a person, even before my political convictions, on the altar of any electoral gain. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u13	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u14	Mr President, if this House really wants to set definitions, on behalf of my Group I can say that - yes - we are anti-political. We think of the dignity of Italians, those vexed by Equitalia because they have not paid a stamp or those who have declared their income but then fail to pay and are chased. Here, however, freedom of conscience is left when the President of the Commission's budget fiscally facilitates a private clinic for the beauty of EUR 350 million. Yeah, we're anti-politics and we're populists. Perhaps Mr Di Battista may not have studied enough, but his hands are free and clean. We are always led by honesty and uprightness, first and foremost towards those who sent us here. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] In 2013 we had just arrived in Parliament and, when, for the umpteenth time, Senator Azzollini granted favorable treatment to his Divine Providence clinic, he received the approval of all the rest of the political forces. In that year, in fact, a billion marchittificio was made, always touching the pockets of the Italians. That billion markificio was made by the Democratic Party, the North League, the Left Group Ecology and Freedom, the Group For the Autonomies, the Forza Italia and the New Right Centro. Everyone! Everyone but us! All except the Five Star Movement! That's right! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In the intercepts we speak only of the antipathy of four commissioners of the 5 Star Movement who opposed each other. Just them! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] When the request for arrest was made, I was the only and only one of the Bureau of the Budget Committee to request the resignation of Senator Azzollini, embarrassing the Democratic Party and Senator Comaroli, who gave up signing my letter. [[Comments of Senator Comaroli.]] I ask the Senators of the Democratic Party: after muffling to have to study the papers and wait for the review court, what more evidence do you want? What conscience are we talking about? I want to know where Renzi is. That Renzi who forced them to stay in this Chamber close to Christmas Eve, bent by sleep, to vote on the law of stability and to have Senator Finocchiaro report on Italicum, with the mascara drooled by sleep. Where is he today? Where is Renzi not to impose a vote in favour of his Group? Where is he? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Where are you? Where is your conscience? You must clearly vote and demand the arrest of Senator Azzollini; you must facilitate the path of the judiciary and you cannot offend this branch of Parliament. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] You cannot offend the Budget Commission, you cannot take away its authority! PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Lezzi, I invite you to address the presidency, please. We are talking about the Commission in which you voted on a vicious cut to health yesterday. Then don't complain and don't say we're populists, because we're populists. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] We prefer to facilitate the judiciary towards the one who, probably, has cheated the Italians, rather than making fierce cuts and then having to remedy the holes and holes that you cause. I appeal to the conscience of those citizens who voted for you. Think of that conscience and not yours! Don't be afraid to lose the chair! Think of your dignity, Senators of the Democratic Party; it is all in your hands. The 5 Star Movement is there, and if the Democratic Party so wishes, the path of legality and justice will finally be facilitated. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u15	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the legal aspects and also some political aspects have already been dealt with by Mr D'Ascola and Mr Di Maggio. I'd like to make a first premise. Here we do not decide the innocence or guilt of my colleague Azzollini: this verification must be done by the trial, in his degree of judgment. We are debating here whether the serious reasons for an exceptional measure, always exceptional for all citizens, whether they are parliamentary or not, are justified; whether within the specific situation of Mr Azzollini, those reasons are so important that they call into question the fullness of our constitutional body and the freedom of a citizen, whatever it may be. It cannot be accepted, ladies and gentlemen, that for different reasons, whether they are political opportunities, electoral propaganda, ambition for power, for territorial struggles which have obscure reasons and equally obscure conveniences, the fundamental principle of the autonomy of this House, this body, as well as the autonomy of the other House, the House of Deputies, should be called into question. Our constituent Fathers had dealt with this issue with great determination in the light of historical experience, and had dealt with it in a balanced way with the separation of powers as a fundamental point of reference: legislative, executive, judicial. It is true that for a few decades, perhaps even more, the confusion between these powers has become practically unsustainable and unbearable, but it is equally true that we have a duty to restore this separation and these fundamental principles. Then, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot abdicate to a fundamental role which we must play today, which, I repeat, is not to judge Mr Azzollini on his criminal responsibilities, but to verify whether there are any forces against him, and against this House, because the forcing in judicial matters, ladies and gentlemen, is fumus persecutionis. Let us not tell stories: a magistrate who forces the law, who does not apply the law in itself performs a persecutory function. From this point of view we must have total intransigence, even at the cost of paying political, personal and electoral prices. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]] If we renounce this, we would renounce the first duty we have in this House to respect the Constitution. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] Let's see the other point. In our Constitution the penalty applies after the three degrees of judgment; there can be no early penalties and there can be no penalties justified by a coercion. The pains must be right and when they are anticipated without the verification of the process, they are still unfair penis. Let's get to the point. I believe that Mr Azzollini did not have the three cases that could have justified the behaviour of the magistrate: the recurrence of the crime, the pollution of evidence, the danger of escape. I'm starting from the last one. There is no doubt that Mr Azzollini has no intention of fleeing. Secondly, for a long time the body on which any undue action has been taken has been a police station, run by an extraordinary commissioner appointed by another authority, certainly not by a political authority. Thirdly, there is the part recalled by the magistrate who asked for the measure of precautionary measure, complaining about the risk of recurrence of the crime. What, then, is the crime attributed to Mr Azzollini? It is the crime of legislative activity [[Comments of Senator Airola]] In his role as legislator he would have influenced and determined the activity and could - that is the point - repeat this crime today: this justifies the precautionary measure. I'm not an expert in law. I'll take care of something else... AIROLA (M5S). You're no expert at all! BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I go to the same sidewalks as Senator Airola, who can't shut up when others talk. I can, though, when he speaks. AIROLA (M5S). Bravo! BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I therefore think that the repetition of the crime of legislative activity cannot be carried out by a single senator. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]] If I remember correctly some reminiscences of constitutional law, the Italian legislator is not monocratic, while criminal responsibility is subjective and personal. So, colleagues, if Senator Azzollini is responsible for repeating the crime, members of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate are responsible. NUGNES (M5S). Bravo! BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Among other things, the Italian legislative function, until the reform eliminates this branch of Parliament, is bicameral and is not carried out only by Senator Azzollini, but they carry out the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, with their members, without forgetting the levels of previous instructors. So, ladies and gentlemen, where is the risk of recurrence of the crime, which is the legal case on which the precautionary measure is required? That's where the magistrate forced him. That is all I want to say, ladies and gentlemen, except a very brief consideration. Obviously my position is personal, as it should be for this matter. And I tell the friends of the Democratic Party that I did not like certain positions of a collective nature of the national presidencies at all. If my party secretary had done such a thing, I would have sent him to lay down, because this is a matter that concerns our conscience and our being senators. We perform our function without a bond of mandate, except that of respect for the law: first of all of the constitutional law and, secondly, of our conscience. We have no other constraints, colleagues. However, in line with what I have already said in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, I believe that we need to rethink Article 68 of the Constitution. It is not enough to take a fair position with regard to Mr Azzollini and, therefore, we are voting against the report adopted by a majority by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. We must also recover the autonomy, dignity, courage and constitutional duty that must lead us to review Article 68 of the Constitution, to restore to these Assemblies the dignity that is theirs and to take them away from every flock of leaf and attack, even of a numerical nature, which is repeatedly exercised by the enactment of measures restricting individual freedom, which undermine the integrity of the institution and also determine important political changes. Let us not forget that this has also happened in recent years. [[Applause from the GroupAut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Bignami, Carraro, Gambaro and Messina]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u17	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u18	Mr President, I would like to make a small premise. In recent weeks, even in the corridors of the Senate, I have heard a remark made mainly by colleagues from other political groups, who complained that the Assembly, unable to be made fully aware of all the documentation available to members of the Assembly of the elections and parliamentary immunity, would be in a situation of cognitive weakness in expressing an assessment of the request under consideration if it is really motivated by reasons of conscience and personal conviction on the issue. With regard to the observation - undoubtedly historically true - that the Assembly is obliged to decide on something that it has not been able to study in depth, having no access, unlike the Junta, to the entire documentation, I would like to remind everyone and emphasize that since weeks, that is, since the procedure has been framed in Junta, on the site of the Senate is available the application for the execution of the implementing order of the precautionary measure of house arrests issued by the judge for the preliminary investigations of Trani, as well as the text of the order itself. It is 520 pages perfectly public, freely evaluable by anyone and, therefore, also by members of the Senate not belonging to the Council. I think it is a documentation of particular value, because it represents a very interesting cross-section from a criminological, sociological and political point of view. From a criminal point of view, first of all, this documentation offers the possibility to deepen your knowledge of various cases of crime, from fraudulent bankruptcy to preferential and documentary bankruptcy. Among the pages are references to forged balance sheets, payments made to friend suppliers to the detriment of the bulk of creditors of the arrangement and then of the administration. It is found a bit 'of everything, like the accusation by association to criminals, that evidently comes before the intervention in 2009 of Senator Azzollini in the dynamics of the Congregation of the Handmaids of Divine Providence. We know that this structure represents a very strong territorial reality in employment and this would certainly justify the interest of a Member and a politician in carrying out their political action for the benefit of the territory and the protection of employment. But, even if only from the examination of the documentation to which I have referred, it is perfectly perceived how the political action is characterized by what has happened for decades probably throughout the country and not only in the lands of the Mezzogiorno, that is to say a divergence between the legitimate political action and the control of the territorial potentate, of its feud and of the clientele management of the public tasks. At the sociological level, it is possible to read the most classic maneuvers of preferential recruitment in favour of children, lovers of directors-general, children of honourable men, trade unionists and children of trade unionists, in a magma of moral and civil decay that unfortunately all too often distinguishes the Italian reality, in which politics diverges from its historical and legitimate function in order to become anything else. Beyond the vote that this House will be voting on today, I therefore recommend examining this documentation to each of us, to journalists, to those who may not have had the time or the desire for deepening and to all the citizens. From this premise I want to take steps to make observations to the minority report brilliantly exposed, as usual, by Senator D'Ascola and dispute some points, trusting that this can make the right decision to which of you is truly free in consciousness and must not submit to party diktat. By sharing Senator D'Ascola's implant on the analysis borrowed from the judgment of legitimacy before the Court of Cassation in the matter of the existence of vices of law or of motivation, I move to specifically challenge some points, perhaps - if I can - giving concrete references contained in the pages of the famous document we are talking about, so as to allow all of you to check whether what I am going to say is true or not. First of all, I am referring to the minority report, namely point 2.5 on page 5, the circumstantial gravity of the matter. We are forced to deal with a bit of technical aspects, which I will try to expose in the simplest and most understandable way possible. First of all it is not true that the circumstantial accusatory hypothesis, with regard to the witness statements, is based on the statements of the Lo Gatto father and son, because there are extensive findings of telephone interceptions, as well as testimonial statements of other subjects (such as Dr. Pappalettera), which make the picture not only plausible, but also confirmed in the historicality of the facts. The latter is summed up in the fact that since 2009 Senator Azzollini, thanks to the entourage of people he imposed on the formal or fictitious direction (i.e. apparent), has in fact managed the destinies of the Congregation. And I remember that we are talking about a very strong reality, which employs 2,000 nurses and doctors and hosts as many patients with mental illness. It is therefore a reality - as you well understand - that has a strong weight on the territory at the level of consensus and - ahinoi - also of customer management. Continuing to follow the minority report, in point b) Senator D'Ascola wonders and asks us how it can be proved that the conducts have actually aggravated the financial failure of the institution and then asks a rhetorical question that indeed strengthens the accusatory thesis. It would seem that the rapporteur has not understood well that the charge is to have delayed the bankruptcy or, better, the declaration of the State of insolvency of the Congregation, by virtue of the falsity of the budget and the regulations approved in the laws of stability, which have extended from time to time the time limits for tax and contributory obligations and thus delayed the state of bankruptcy. And this allowed, at least during the last five years, from 2009 onwards - while knowing that the situation was decorated already from before - to the director, who actually managed the Congregation, to do what is defined in the ordinance - and can only be defined as that - that is, a looting of the resources of the same, but above all of the citizens, that is, of the erial resources. Indeed - as has already been mentioned before - those who are paying the costs of the non-payment of hundreds of millions of euros (we are not talking about shortcuts) and the putting in motion of hundreds of employees fired - while at the same time or immediately after they hired friends, lovers of friends, children of friends and the whole singer company - are the Erario and the Italian State, also with regard to the collection of all expenses related to the mobility of workers fired. Then there is something particularly important. Wrongly in the minority report we talk about rules that would have covered the national territory, that is those regulations from time to time proposed, extended and then calibrated and cut out of two years in the law of stability, relating to the extension of tax and contributory obligations. It is good that we know and that we all know that the only body that has benefited from it is exactly the Congregation of the Handmaids of Divine Providence, based in Bisceglie, Foggia and Potenza. This, therefore, denies the idea that it is a general and abstract norm, which could have been enjoyed by other religious institutions that deal with health... PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please come to the conclusion, Senator Buccarella, because your time is up. BUCCARELLA (M5S). I thought I had ten minutes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They've passed. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Then I'll get to the conclusion. Hence, it is a rule specifically cut out for the Congregation that ran those nursing homes. In response to Senator Buemi, I say that what is being discussed is not the vote. There is no question of the freedom of expression of vote and opinion that each of us has and must continue to have, and this can be learned - I cannot summarize it, alas, in ten minutes - simply reading the papers that are available to you all. What emerges is an action aimed at partitioning, appropriation, plundering of the structure in question, of the public body with considerable damage to the community and demonstration of what party politics is still today. Finally, I would like to make one last mention of the precautionary requirements, which is perhaps the most sensitive and slippery subject, on which we too or those of us who wanted to tackle this issue in a pragmatic way - as we are used to doing - risked to waver. Beware, gentlemen - this is also apparent from the text available to all - that Senator Azzollini has been interested and has continued to intercede or represent his potential for political intervention, which was also to contact the Ministry of Economic Development - his action was not limited to the vote or presidency of the Senate Budget Commission - and to meeting the unions and nuns until a few months ago. If it can help, on page 528 of the application for authorisation to execute the order of custody, reference is made to meetings that took place on 16 February 2015 and 1 March 2015... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. BUCCARELLA (M5S). ...in the course of which Senator Azzollini would reassure the trade unionists claiming to personally control the situation of the plan at the Ministry. So, with regard to the topicality and practicality of the precautionary requirement, in view of the risk of recurrence of the crime and despite the late and hasty resignation of Senator Azzollini from the office of President of the Budget Commission, this - in my view - does not shift the issue by a millimetre. The weight and standing of a very authoritative representative of a majority party, such as Senator Azzollini, have a political capacity to influence - I repeat - even in government (and not just in parliament) that cannot be satisfied with the simplistic expressions we have heard here in the Chamber and, previously, also in Junta. Neither the resignation from the office of President solves the potential situation of recurrence... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Yes, ma'am. I therefore hope that the document will be read. It could be a summer reading, because it represents a glimpse of the worst Italy, of an Italy that we do not want and that we want to change. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u19	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u20	Mr President, I will begin my speech by referring to Senator Lezzi's statements. We cannot offend the Budget Committee, but Senator Lezzi can offend the whole Senate in a disarray and misplaced way. This is unacceptable. [[Applause from Senator Berger's PDe Group]] Senator Lezzi has already decided that Senator Azzollini is guilty. Blessed is she who has this certainty. I humbly return to the judiciary. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is not a good day for our Senate. It is never the case when one of its members comes before the House to be placed under house arrest or saved by them. We would like each other to be judged in this Senate for his abilities, for his correctness and for his political and cultural depth. Senator Azzollini certainly has some of these qualities, and I have no difficulty in recognizing it. He showed them to me about the legislative work and showed them to everyone. The point, however, today is another, as Senator Stefano's report punctually says: is the request for arrest or not connoted by a persecutory intent towards a colleague? This is only the object of our judgment and the answer is, with all the evidence, negative. In the investigation conducted against Azzollini there is nothing, nothing, that can suggest that the magistrates are in bad faith, are politically motivated or have committed macroscopic errors in the investigation. Senator Azzollini is certainly in unclear relations with the structure of Divine Providence and there are wide margins to deepen a situation that defines matte is to say little. One last word I want to say to my colleagues in the Group: be careful, friends and colleagues. We are very careful about the conduct we take and the coherence we show to our electorate. In the election and immunity committee, our group voted for the arrest because it had read the papers and examined the case in a thorough way. What has changed between the exam in Junta and today? Why is freedom of conscience given today? What's the difference between this case and Genovese's and Galan's in the House? And what difference does it make between this case and that of Luigi Lusi, dating back to the end of the last legislature, the treasurer of the Margherita sent, rightly, to the patrie galere? Here, I warn you, friends and colleagues of the PD: as someone said, sometimes voting and choosing badly is worse than a crime, it is a mistake. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Azzollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u22	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteurs. I have to make a small premise before I make my speech: I am a Member of Parliament, a man of the institutions and, therefore, I will stick exclusively to the case that deals with me, to the people involved in it and in particular to check whether the elements that I know, and that I have brought to the attention of the election committee, can complement - in my view they do so fully - the elements that highlight fumus persecutionis to my detriment, because that is what we are talking about in this House. Therefore, I will stick exclusively to the order, as far as I am concerned. No general judgment can be deduced from the particular facts which will be the subject of my examination and from the persons, whether they be magistrates, be they judges, be they parliamentarians or other defendants who are involved in this particular matter. The second question is as follows: I will not make any defensive proposals, because this is not the place and because the legal aspects have been dealt with - in my opinion, in an absolutely effective way - by Senator D'Ascola, so I will not intervene in any way on them. I will therefore limit myself to reading documents produced by the prosecutor and the gip: documents I have submitted, which are properly known and nothing else. The defensive perspectives I could have done well, but this is not the place. Thirdly, of course, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it will in no way be the Senate touched by controversy during my speech. Every controversy, for those who are honored to have attended these Palaces for so long, is the salt of this House. I know the reasons, but it is not my job to deal with the controversy here. That doesn't mean I wouldn't be able to do it. It means that today, here, I have to discuss only the elements that integrate fumus persecutionis and that I desume not from a defensive proposition, but exclusively from the papers that accuse me. In anticipation, to supplement fumus persecutionis, I read two paragraphs of two articles of the Code of Criminal Procedure that will be the substratum of my analysis of the accusatory papers. The second paragraph of Article 192 of the Code of Criminal Procedure states that: The existence of a fact cannot be deduced from clues, unless they are serious, precise and consistent. This diction is precise. The second element, which - as is well known - justifies membership of the judiciary of the prosecutor's office, is Article 358, according to which: The public prosecutor shall carry out all necessary activities for the purposes set out in Article 326 and shall also carry out investigations into facts and circumstances in favour of the person under investigation. I assume those who accuse me know these two articles perfectly. Where ever, in the course of my analysis, these two articles will be completely disregarded, I have only two possibilities, one more serious than the other: either you do not know the two articles or - worse - you distort their use. I must mention only quickly the date of October 7, 2014, when the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities of the Senate of the Republic declares the unusableness of some interceptions in my favour. I repeat October 7, 2014. On 23 February 2015, I filed a complaint. In fact, the duty of a Member of Parliament is not to sneak up on anything. A Member of Parliament denounces the facts where he believes in his conscience that they are to be denounced. Of course, it is up to the competent judiciary to investigate the case. I have rightly denounced certain elements of fact represented at the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities which I thought were not true. I have done this for the sole reason that Parliament, the Junta, must be defended in the face of those who - in my view - do not represent the reality as it should be represented. These are two historical facts. Following them were the denunciation to the Supreme Council of the judiciary, to the Ministry of Justice and to the General Prosecutor at the Court of Cassation for the actions under their jurisdiction. These facts emerge in all their evidence. I am enrolled in a trial started in 2013, and in fact I have been ascribed since 2009, on 24 November 2014 (the other facts had occurred on 7 October) and in the registration document of the suspects prosecutors who make the accusation against me read as follows: Read the documents of the proceedings, taking into account in particular the statements made to the pm by Lo Gatto Attilio, who was contested on 20 November (four days before), hereby enroll. So, Cat Attilio is a decisive element, according to the prosecutor, for my registration in the register of suspects. Article 192 of the Code of Criminal Procedure - as we have seen - requires that the existence of a fact cannot be deduced from clues unless these are serious, precise and concordant. The Cat Attilio was heard on November 20, 2014. There is not, in the index of the documents of the trial, that - I repeat - I produced before the Junta, the notice of convocation of Lo Gatto Attilio. Whether the prosecutor claims to have done it or not, it's not in the index. So, on November 20, Cat Attilio goes to talk about me, but there is no notice of convocation. Ten months before, that is February 4, 2014, he testifies against me The Cat Antonio Nicolino. Whether it is the same fact, as I will point out, I do not know if it is desumable from the words of the two subjects, but the order will say it. The first reason for the integration of fumus, Mr President, Senators and Senators, is as follows: for the same fact, a father and a son are called ten months away. This does not bump against normal procedure (it is done in the morning and afternoon, one day or another), but it bumps against logic. But there is more: on February 4 the Cat Antonio Nicolino does not say that there is the son with him, there is no notice of convocation in the index of documents and ten months later we find the son. I put this to the serene evaluation of the facts by all senators and senators. Can you imagine someone waking up in the morning and saying, Now I'm going to testify to Senator Antonio Azzollini? In fact, not to testify, I was wrong: to give testimony, because the testimonies will come at another time of the trial. Again, I will read the two testimonies as they have been carried out, because they are made, but they must be accompanied, for the purposes of the integration of fumus, by the pre-conditional declarations and consequent to the two depositions. The prosecutors say: "On the subject of the control of the Agency by Senator Azzollini report with precise and precise statements - certainly, they cannot be precise and precise, otherwise they would not integrate those elements of which we said at the beginning - "Pappalettera Nicola," "Lo Gatto Antonio Nicolino," "Lo Gatto Attilio." The statement by Pappalettera Nicola is relegated in ten lines on page 303. He reports news learned from Rizzi Dario, as it is always written in the papers, and therefore it is a reporter's witness who learns about the news and says absolutely nothing, except: "For Senator Azzollini has promised us to intervene, if he can help us, but he has put as a condition that a consultant of his will join the organization. This is what Pappalettera says, which is not what gives rise to my registration in the register of suspects, so much so that Parpalettera is not introduced in the extension of the charges. Instead, let us see the two Cats who make precise and precise statements. Let's start with the famous word that offended modesty and for which I apologize to all the religious women who were involved in that sentence. I apologize, not for me, but for who wrote them. And then Cat Attilio heard the nuns say from the next room: From now on, I'm in charge, if not... That's the point. The prosecutor asks, "Does he know when... do he remember when it happened?" He answers: "The first moments, when Azzollini entered the Divine House Providence." The prosecutor realizes... First moments and try to go in specific. More or less, do you remember the period? As a year, I say. Big way you remember what year we're talking about, what season of the year... incomprehensible... You'll excuse me. We're talking about fumus. The public prosecutor's word "incomprehensible" is an absolute novelty in a trial. Incomprehensible may be the witness or the interception, but not what the judge asks, but so it is. I reproduce - Members have rightly said - and it is available to all of you. It is incomprehensible to place it historically. The Cat's response is as follows: "Mah," 2006, 2007, 2008. That is, I don't remember the year well, but it was an intermediate season was neither hot nor cold. That's the answer; but that's not it. In addition, The Cat does not say of course that there is the father. He's not here. Going forward: "Did you know Senator Azzollini?" "Yes, yes, I know him and I had a fight once. But did you see it with your own eyes? And he says, "Who?" That Senator Azzollini was coming in? - Yeah, yeah, Was Ed accompanied by someone, if you remember? No, he wasn't accompanied by someone. The judge goes on and asks for more and the answer is: I don't remember if there was Belsito, the other. Then they ask him: Do you remember, by any chance, if there was Senator Azzollini's brother? You'll understand in a moment why they're asking about my brother. I don't know him. If there was, by any chance, Rocco Di Terlizzi? "No" is "No" So, we've put together three things that will definitely be, to integrate a fact, punctual and precise. The year was 2006, 2007 or 2008, but the season, in a country in Southern Italy, was intermediate; it was neither hot nor cold. How did I get in here? Alone. Ten months earlier the father, interrogated by others - important this because it is not the same who interrogates - says so. Begin immediately: "One evening Senator Azzollini, Angelo Belsito, the... " - a third person - "the brother of Senator Azzollini and I don't know how many other people." Alone with an army of people. And what did they do? ask. He doesn't pronounce the famous sentence. He doesn't feel it. There is no son and no pronunciation and says: "And miserable - just because we were many - "ko". It says "koko" itself. That's the exact term. The man says: "Misero ko the generalizio" council, which, you know, is done - I think - by a little nuns, whose minimum age is 74-75 years, as is known, except one. And, therefore, putting ko of the nuns is frankly a punctual and precise sentence. "And they miserable, but he does not say this word saying that they should no longer be allowed to manage the heritage of the Divine Providence house. He asks the prosecutor: "When did this happen?" Certainly the year can be 2006, 2007 or 2008 and the season was intermediate. We are in Bisceglie, a country in southern Italy. This was the month of June-July 2009 onwards. I repeat: June-July 2009. Severe, precise, but above all concordant. Mr President, for this House I complement the reconstruction carried out by the prosecutors: Senator Azzollini in the summer (they say precisely) following Rizzi Dario's appointment as general manager (then in the summer of 2009) organized a sort of break-in in the CDP's biscegliese seat, imposing from that moment on the nuns (...). So, they take the father's deposition, the first: a break-in in the summer of 2009. I submit the following question to the Senate of the Republic. The slight discrasia on matters of minor importance, temporal circumstances and the presence of other subjects or not together with the senator, does not affect the reliability of the statements and, on the contrary, attests that the two have made genuine statements to the public prosecutor. We must all therefore know, from now on, that the more the reconstructions of the same episode are distant, the more genuine they are. So, to argue, on the one hand, that Azzollini is blond, tall and with blue eyes and, on the other hand, that he is rather low, hefty and with brown eyes makes statements more genuine, except for Azzollini, who at that point does not know who he is. That's the point that makes me wonder why this is being said. Rebuilt according to the father's version, continues: The episode in question, characterized by a phrase - the famous one - whose intimidating scope is appreciated in all its incisiveness inaugurates the season of the Azzollinian power. Thus it is evident that two widely divergent depositions are juxtapositions a posteriori. We do not know why and why they could have been drawn both (one speaks of the other and vice versa) in different times but rebuilt in this way. This I put to the attention of the Assembly to verify, as the first of the elements, the integration of a fumus persecutionis. I had to say that precisely. Mr President, I turn to the second question, concerning recruitment, always referring to Lo Gatto. The assumptions are described as follows. I've gone all over the world because I don't know how many hirings. According to the dates indicated on the prospectuses exhibited by Lo Gatto (always by him), 46, for the sole seat of Bisceglie, are attributed since 2000, 23 always to Bisceglie, to another expert. 197 is the number going across Europe, of which 54 are going to Bisceglie. The whole order makes me the boss of Bisceglie, Foggia and Potenza. So, it's 54; we've moved to 54. In this regard, it is useful to recall the statements, this time of Lo Gatto, already reported earlier, according to which, starting from the moment of the expropriation of power by Senator Azzollini (finally there are) and his entourage, the wild assumptions are: Vasiljevic Adriana. It is a lady drawn from all other issues, which do not concern me. Yet for two days all the news in Italy spoke of me as a person involved, and they tell me - I have never listened to them, I will ask for the recordings - that then they not only denied me, but they apologized. I'm grateful for their apology, but at least let them see with a little care before they tell the whole world things like that. Mrs Belsito Teresa, Belsito's daughter, considered to be "my man" (therefore one); then Mr X and say to whom I am attributable: son of a cousin of the superior; Miss X, daughter of the coordinator responsible for the union X of Puglia; Miss X, daughter of Mr Y; Mr X, brother of the Director General; Mr Y, son of the director of ARES Puglia; Miss Y daughter of a high representative; Mr Y, son of the health director of the headquarters of Foggia. At the end of the fair, it's an assumption. I wonder how it is possible that you do not want to be hired instead of 197. This, remember, is crucial to my alleged role as de facto administrator. If you do 197 hirings, it's something that assumes its trueness, except the demonstrations; if you do one, or rather if one is attributed to you - but I said that here I don't make defensive statements - things change completely radically. An assumption, and only because Mr. Belsito's daughter. Here are the first two of my serious conducts for which Lo Gatto, the fundamental test, is faith, the truth of which is so evident... But above all I put to the reflection of the Senate the reconstructions made by my accusers, which are frankly difficult to consider logical here; in the case we will express ourselves in another way. The other big story that concerns me would be the famous question of bankruptcy and above all my persistence. I'll tell you three things, one of which I read from the papers. By the way, of this truthfulness and of Article 358 for which the Ministry carries out all necessary activities and carries out investigations in favor of the person, why does the prosecutor not ask the father if there is the son? Why don't you ask your son if his father's here? Why don't you ask the interested parties if this has happened? He doesn't ask. It does not supplement any of these legislative requirements. None. Why? There is only one fact: in the deposition before the court of freedom, made by the nun who would have been the recipient of my incommentable phrasebook, the nun, restricted to arrests, radically denies the fact. So, before they were not agreed, now they are not even serious or precise. And the nun says it before a judge through her memorial, restricted, without any opportunity to interview me. So these two articles have been totally and radically ignored. Why? I entrust him to the Senate evaluation. But let's go to the matter of bankruptcy. The Divine Providence House has been agreed in advance since April 2013, i.e. since then there are commissioners who manage the Divine Providence House. How I can overcome this, it is absolutely difficult to think. But if that were not enough, since December 2013, the Divine House Providence has been put into extraordinary administration. It says the order that accuses me, on page 39, taking over the law on extraordinary administration, that the decree appointing the commissioners determines the breakdown of the debtor and the custody to the extraordinary commissioner of the management of the enterprise and the administration of the assets of the entrepreneur in default. How I can affect this is not given to understand, except for a matter that I will say in a moment. There is the breakdown of the debtor and the management entrusted to the Commissioner: that the Commissioner is not a man close to me is illustrated in more places and in more ways in the process, although of all aspects that do not concern fumus I said that I would not take care of myself. Of course, however, it is said several times that the Commissioner is certainly not close to me. So, even on the issue of interference, I have to say nicely that as far as strong powers are concerned they are a little weak: the single commissioner is not close to Senator Azzollini and the other commissioners, who should have been there, are not there. This is the situation in fact: that's how it happened. The thing that makes, in my opinion, this impossible - I always say it for the purposes of fumus, colleagues - is not the fact that there is the appointment of the commissioner - I do not know how I did, before the agreed budget - but the fact that in August 2013, the two magistrates of the office of the prosecutor who accuse me, in a measure of collection of sums, which concerns the Divine House Providence, express themselves in the way I will tell you. These are precisely the prosecutors in question. Mr Stefano, I would also like to thank you for your serenity towards me, but on the basis of these elements, which I did not find in your report. The two prosecutors - theirs, exactly theirs - write in the document of exquestment: the prosecutor arranges the exquestment of the accounts, but, above all, also prescribes to the director-general of the Divine House Providence, Dr. Giuseppe Domenico De Bari, to report to the writer judicial authority, without prejudice to other obligations vis-à-vis the organs of the insolvency proceedings, in writing, on a weekly basis, from the date of notification of this measure, all the incoming and outgoing transactions, adequately supported by the relevant documentation, carried out on the only bank account indicated and in the mores of the exquestment of the acts, also carried out on the other dissecquered accounts. So, how can I have continued, since 2013, to be able to carry out any activity within the Divine Providence House? I ask you to evaluate this aspect for the purposes of fumus. There is no mention here of other subjects, but exactly of the two proxy substitutes, who then signed the request. Since 2013 they require to have a weekly report, in writing, of all incoming and outgoing transactions, adequately supported and with the underlying financial movement. Nothing can be done and this is demonstrated by the fact that of course no violation of this order is ever contested. Then, if you do not dispute the violation of this order and tell me that I could have operated since 2013, there is really a logical contradiction, rather than legal. And what is not logical, of course, you can understand that it has other motivation. I shall conclude, Mr President, with the last of the questions. As for the crime of bankruptcy, which is a crime against the property - even if I wanted to admit that I committed it, and that is not the case, I should have done it at least by August 2013 - on page 520 of the measure, the act of accusation is expressed as follows: The fact that Azzollini Antonio, unlike the official directors of the Board, did not act for economic interests (there is no evidence that the Senator has achieved or attempted to achieve) - therefore what would be called full proof - is a profit from the occult management of the Board of Directors), does not prevent him from considering it as a member of the association to criminals, moreover with the position of chief offenders because he had personal and political interests, constituting the CoP a basin of political-personal consensus of considerable scope, whose maintenance in life assures the politician of Molfetto a political-personal consensus almost eternal. Mr President, if I am allowed to have a slight irony in a very difficult affair like this, all this will also be very functional for eternity, but my political part in 2013 lost the elections in both Molfetta and Bisceglie: it will be for eternity, but not for this affair. I apologise, ladies and gentlemen, for this slight irony on this point, but the fact remains that, when we go into political matters, events are quite different and are very different. That's what happened. One last question that I would like to recall, which will probably never be discussed in the courts, but which must be recalled in this Senate, because it is decisive, concerns the fact that Azzollini Antonio is spied on. That's what we're talking about. It is the e-mail sent by Marcello Paduanelli, still administrative director of the agency, so obviously very well informed of the case, to the lawyer Cozzoli on 28 February, at 16.28 in which Paduanelli informs the commissioner of a meeting held in Molfetta on 16 February within which Antonio Azzollini, meeting some employees of the CDP, adherents to him and worried about the fate of the agency, would reassure them saying that he would control the situation himself. Given that this is what Paduanelli writes, it remains the fact that I had a normal meeting and someone, a gentleman not authorized by the judge informs Cozzoli, who informs the lieutenant colonel of the Finance Guard, who informs the prosecutor. Perhaps this element does not in itself integrate a serious danger, but man insists. On Sunday, March 1, Paduanelli, with a text shot to Lieutenant Colonel Ricchitelli, warns that Azzollini met the nuns, with whom he entertained about half an hour, accompanied by his secretary, another unidentified gentleman and Angelo Belsito. The fact was irrelevant, but the fact is that among normal people someone spies what Azzolini does and gives information that is recorded in the request of the precautionary measure against me. Gentlemen, these are the elements. Let me just add one more thing, with which I really end. Everyone has talked about how many people have seen my papers: I do not deal with the court of freedom hearing, because I have asked for transcripts of that presence, which have not yet been granted to me, but which are very significant. I said I'd stick to the paperwork. But I have produced to my colleagues and I have here the circumstance that the judge of preliminary investigations, on my person, makes only a copy and paste. It does not reproduce, but makes a copy and paste the request of the pm. This is in disrespect of the rule which Mr D'Ascola has for his part dealt with, on the necessity, introduced by a law of April, of self-assessment. So the copies and paste evidently were there, if the legislator felt the need to say that it was necessary to make an independent evaluation. Now, "autonomous" is a concept that can go from 0.1 to 10, but it can't go to 0. I repeat that a copy has been made and paste; this tells you about the context in which I am judged. I thank everyone and thank the President for the extra minutes I have been given. I have tried to explain to the Senate of the Republic what are the reasons, deducted exclusively from the papers to my knowledge (all produced by those who accuse me), for which I believe that fumus persecutionis is abundantly integrated. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC), FI-PdL XVII, Cri and LAG (GS, MpA, NPSI, PpI, IdV, VGF, FV). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u23	The debate is closed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Stefano, if he will reply. STEFANO, rapporteur. No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to ask the minority rapporteur, Senator D'Ascola, if he will reply. Mr D'Ascola, minority rapporteur. No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I communicate that a request for a secret ballot has been received, pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, accompanied by the signatures of the prescribed number of senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u26	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that this is an emblematic affair for our country. Just look at the charges that concern my colleague Azzollini: association with criminals, fraudulent and simple bankruptcy. A normal citizen might wonder, but what are we talking about? Of the twelve years in which he was head of the Budget Commission, whose data are public and obvious to all, why does bankruptcy concern our country? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] No. We are talking about the local modus operandi, of a hole between 350 and 500 million euros (not clear). Furthermore - I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, to have to point this out - here in this House you have been lied to shamelessly. When it is said that the cornerstone of the order is parliamentary activity, who has spoken these words has lied to you, because the gip has absolutely excluded that scope of activity from its assessments and has limited the perimeter of the conduct of which Azzollini is accused to the activity on the territory, specifying it. So it is a clear lie, used because it is suggestive, ladies and gentlemen, to tell you that the magistrates want to accuse you all of parliamentary activity. No, that's what citizens are gonna do for this country's bankruptcy! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The bankruptcy of those public-funded private health companies is the same bankruptcy that you have conducted this country in 12 years of management of this Budget Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The data is public and is not our opinion. But they're all friends of Azzolini's in here. I'd like to see, 12 years with the strings of the bag always open! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]] DE BIASI (PD). How dare you! I mean, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giarrusso, stick to the facts we're discussing. GIARRUSSO (M5S). I'm sticking to the facts, Mr. President. Simply read "Il Sole 24 Ore", the economic data of our country are attested. There are the numbers of our bankruptcy. And someone must be responsible; it is not that aliens are responsible. The Presidency of the Budget Commission did not have any aliens: Senator Azzollini had it! But everyone is now friends of Azzollini here in this House and enemies of the citizens of this country; that is the truth! I would like to ask all those who suddenly discovered themselves friends, in the simple phrase "the law is the same for all," which is a great principle of civilization, what is not clear to you? What is unbearable about this democratic, liberal principle, since the mouth of this term is filled? The law is the same for everyone. What causes you to go against not one, but two levels of our jurisdiction that have already pronounced themselves in that path that they love to call a fair trial, denying them? What is it? Isn't this the right process anymore? Have our judges suddenly become persecutors? Who is the persecutor and the persecutor in this matter? Outside this House it is clear to everyone that anything can be said about Azzollini except that he is persecuted by justice [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] Because he's been doing what he wants in his house for decades because you made him do it. Now it weighs on you to vote for his arrest. It used to be convenient. I get it: Azzollini made a lot of people comfortable. Now it's hard to download it. In addition to the lie about parliamentary activity, there are other lies that are justified by those who defend themselves in a courtroom, but this is not a courtroom and here lies have short legs because there is the 5 Star Movement. [[Comments from PD, FI-PdL XVII and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]] Those you have heard about the evaluation of the testimonies (e.g. The Cat) are normal assessments of the truthfulness of testimonies that if too precise and concordant they are said to be agreed. So the judge, unlike what has been said here, said that precisely for this reason they are truthful, because they are not superimposed. But, be careful: they do not contradict each other but, unlike what has been said, they integrate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr Manconi (PD). Giarrusso, congratulations on being a statesman! GIARRUSSO (M5S). Today we have no doubt, and the silence of the guilty is proof, that in secret, hiding you as thieves in the eyes of the citizens you will save Azzollini. But you will save Azzollini and lose yourself because you will prove something irrefutable: that of Azzollini you were accomplices and associates. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In this House the persecuted are the citizens of this country, not Azzollini who has had a treatment of respect and favor even by the judiciary that has left him for many years in quiet peace on his territory and only now has awakened. [[Comments of the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]] As for the defenses of Azzollini, now it has certainly been better advised but I can assure you, and those who were present in Junta can testify to it, that they were defenses that I as a lawyer would never have made my client do, no matter how ridiculous and incredible they were. [[Lively comments from the PD Group]] Azzollini admitted in Junta that he had intervened on the agency by appointing the manager and appointing those who, according to the judiciary, constituted his "band." Do you know what his answers to our questions were? To the simple question: "Who asked you, my colleague, to intervene on that institution?" he replied: "All of you." And when we asked who all of these were, he said, "All of them." This was all his defensive line. I would like to conclude, Mr President, that it is simple: we, considering that there is no fumus persecutionis, but that these are merely acts of duty of the judiciary, which are all too lenient, will vote in favour. We will vote in favour because we believe that citizens are and should remain equal before the law, without unbearable caste privileges like this. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Putting the judiciary on trial and charge is a privilege that only in this House can you afford, but we will not allow it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u27	Pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore refer to the secret ballot of the proposal of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to grant authorization for the execution of the implementing order of the precautionary measure of house arrests against Senator Antonio Azzollini, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution. I remember that the senators in favour will vote yes by pressing the green button, the senators against will vote no by pressing the red button and those who want to abstain will speak accordingly, pressing the white button. In any case, the light that will light on the terminals and on the luminous board will be neutral for all. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC), FI-PdL XVII, GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PpI, IdV, VGF, FV) and CRI. Congratulations. Live comments from Senators Lezzi and Bottici.]] I'm gonna suspend the session for five minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m. and resumed at 12.07 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u30	LIUZZI (CRI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators, representatives of the government, a tragedy announced last morning shook our consciences and those of the communities of Modugno, a populous and industrial center belonging to the metropolitan city of Bari, small and medium-sized centers that insist on what was once called the Terra di Bari and the qualified professional communities of pyrotechnics. A thunderous explosion, followed by dozens of other roboating explosions, has killed six men. A factory of fireworks, the factory by name, that of Bruscella, master firemen for a hundred and twenty-five years, has blown up and, with it, the violence of the explosion has torn apart the lives, the bodies and the individual and family stories of a community of workers, owners, workers and occasional customers. In the following days, among those admitted to hospitals in Apulia, almost a rosary of deaths: three more deaths. There are nine victims of the disaster and two more seriously injured lie in the beds of the great burn victims. Scenes of despair, the crying and unbelief of relatives and friends, the torn affections, the transmission of the means of relief have given the episode the contours of the apocalypse. The recovery and recognition of the bodies and the pitiful gestures and the drip of the care prepared by the rescuers towards the survivors have proved difficult, particularly aimed at comforting the family members of the victims, who still suffer the results of the psychological shock. Michele Pellicani, Michele Bruscella, Vincenzo De Chirico, Riccardo Postiglione, Vincenzo Armenise, Kumar Nigah, Samir Merja, Harbhajan Banga and Giuseppe Pellegrino are the victims of the disaster and their risky and tiring work: different ages, three nationalities involved and different religious faiths, but all victims of work, that job that, especially in the South, is missing and, if there is, is at high risk. That of pyrotechnics is a singular craft, closely related to the most authentic cultural and folkloric expressions of the Mezzogiorno: the patronal festivals and liturgical celebrations that for three, four days, with fixed frequency in the year, are called to celebrate the patron saints of the towns that insist on the coast or barked on the hills and on the southern Apennines. It is a world made of passions and rituals, even exasperated and perhaps anachronistic, not entirely explored and never definitively described. Folklore, ethnology, demology, neighborhood economy and niche tourism are the mix of components of the oldest and most assembled patronal festivals. The mix of gestures, calibration, mixtures and measurements is one of the main factors - not to say professional secrets - of the master bombers. They are also called firefighters, men who pack fireworks, handle them and predispose them to use, for the whole benefit of the communities that receive such work dedication. They keep secret arcanes, handed down from generation to generation, and are professionals of alchemy. Mr President, perhaps not everyone in this House knows that when fireworks are set on fire in the evenings of summer, they give life to those who love them. They are defined as the same firefighters, because in the slang of firefighters the colors that reinvent the rainbow on the city at night intertwine human feelings. In this expression are present the professional tradition, the desire to amaze and the sense of risk. The black powders at the base of the extraordinary color compositions have the chemical base in resins and metals such as barium, aluminium, copper and ammonia. They are materials that must be carefully tinkered and mixed with zeal, as the risk is high. This is why the issue of occupational safety is dramatically broken down. In fact, pyrotechnics is one of the most risky trades in the world. Ferree rules have been defined in the current legislation and different and authoritative are the public subjects responsible for the control of working, working environments, procedures of preparation, conservation, transport, storage and spectacular fire operations. You can't be wrong, you can't be distracted. However, human fatigue, custom, habit and momentary underestimation of the risk cause the outbreak, the deflagration, the accidents and the deaths. What happened in Modugno must no longer be repeated in any district of the South, in any workplace or in any family of workers. The controls must be frequent, meticulous inspections, the application of inflexible rules and the conduct of independent controllers. We also need serious and comprehensive training, from knowledge of materials to safety procedures in the workplace. We need more responsibility combined with the extraordinary creativity of the operators and more love on the part of the proponents of our marvellous looks on the kaleidoscopes of fire; more culture of the safety of the collaborators, of the family, of the users of the singular social, human, religious experience, that gives life to a show of fireworks. I'm going to conclude. We know that the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Safety in Workplaces, chaired by Senator Fabbri, has been engaged in a cognitive investigation; we know that the Bari judiciary has opened files for manslaughter; we know that among the people of Modugno there has been a wonderful invitation to solidarity to support the families affected by mourning and loss of employment. I appeal to you, Mr Grasso, for your sensitivity, which has been widely demonstrated in similar circumstances, to call on the House to pay tribute to the memory of the victims and to the concept of security as a garrison to preserve Italian, specifically southern and Apulian work. Finally, the events of the ILVA of Taranto, with the difficult equation health-work, ask us in an urgent way about the social destinies of the processes of development and work and the imperative need to guarantee, the quality of life and the good of the nation. [[Applause from the CRI Group and Senator Razzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u31	The Presidency supports the mourning of the victims' families and calls for a minute's thought and silence. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u32	Let's resume our work. Colleagues, with today's letter, Senators Barani, Companione, Conti, D'Anna, Falanga, Langella, Eva Longo, Mazzoni, Scavone and Verdini have announced that they will form the parliamentary group called: "Alleanza Liberalpopulare-Autonomie", indicating as President of the Group Senator Barani, Vice President Vicar Senator Mazzoni, Vice President Senator Eva Longo, Treasurer Senator Compagnone, spokesperson Senator D'Anna and Secretary Senator Falanga. Therefore, Senators Barani, Compagnone, D'Anna and Scavone cease to belong to the Group Grandi Autonomie e Libertà, Senators Mazzoni and Verdini cease to belong to the Group Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura, Senators Falanga and Eva Longo cease to belong to the Group Conservatori, Italian Reformists, Senator Langella ceases to belong to the Group Area Popolare (NCD-UDC) and Senator Conti ceases to belong to the Mixed Group. Following the transition to another parliamentary group, Senator Barani lapses from office as Secretary of the Council of President, pursuant to Article 5, paragraph 2-c, of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u33	The next item is the joint debate on documents VIII. 5 (Report of Senate revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2014) and 6 (Project of Senate internal budget for the financial year 2015). The rapporteur, Senator Sangalli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u34	Mr President, the timing of the accounts (one could say of the final balance sheet) and of the forecast balance is always full of meanings that must be read through numbers, which then reproduce management actions, policies, guidelines of behaviour that the Senate has assumed in the current year, and in those of the recent past. The Quaestor Senators have done a very intense and precise work and will present in detail to the Assembly, as in recent days they have done with the Presidents of the Commissions and the executive officials of the Commissions and the various services of the Senate, both the performance of the accounts of 2014 and the state of implementation of 2015. What I would like to say, as President of the Senate Budget Committee, is that the work has been carried out very seriously and with great coherence with regard to the work undertaken in the past years, with the aim of achieving convergent objectives. The first of these objectives is the containment of costs, the second is the containment of costs through the growth of organizational efficiency, and therefore through a progressive process of reorganization that over the years has produced a substantial reduction of the staff of our Senate, but such as not to cause damage to the performance of the democratic functions to which this House is called, neither to the functions of deepening, analysis and inspection to which the Senate itself is called. If the strategic objectives are well set, efficiency usually leads also to the production of greater effectiveness in its own activity, which is the legislative production - activity proper to the two rooms - and therefore in the total democratic function of our country. The accounts can be summarized in an expenditure - which will be very well detailed by the reports: this allows me to be brief in my introduction - which becomes, at the end of 2014, about 501,626,000 euros, with a reduction of 2.21 percent on the 2013 final, which in turn was down compared to the 2012 final. In other words, we are faced with a very substantial saving of expenditure, which is achieved through actions of efficiency, reorganization, reduction of expenditure that through efficiency can be brought back within chapters much more suitable for the operation of a Chamber like this. However, I would like to point out, as my predecessors have done in past years - I do not deny that I have tried to see what the President of the Budget Committee was going to do with this type of report to the House - that what I call characteristic management, that is, the function proper to the Senate, which relates to its operation in the strict sense, to the costs for the active senators, for the collaborators and for the senate spaces, is an important part, but that constitutes 58.6 percent of the total expenditure of the Senate. If we were to measure, as would be done in a company, the management characteristic of our own, with respect to the evolution of the revenues, we would be faced with a management that has produced results constantly positive in terms of the effectiveness of the product and at the same time has continuously reduced the expense, with important results in terms of the efficiency of the expense itself. However, the overall account of the Senate is not only made by the management that I define characteristic, but also by a rather full-bodied section, which covers 41.44 percent of the overall budget and which relates to social security expenditure. The Senate, in its autonomy, corresponds directly the pensions to its employees and the vitality to the parliamentarians in quiescence or, let's say, at rest, through its own profit and loss account: this therefore enters into the profit and loss account of the Senate itself. I would like to remind you that this part - which has been gradually renewed, reduced and concentrated, also because of decisions that this House has taken over the years, especially as regards the vitality of the senators, the way in which they are paid, the time spent in the Senate and so on - is, on the one hand, self-financed by the senators themselves, while, on the other hand, it enjoys the support of the State, as well as any other form of social security and supplementary provision. I say this in order to represent the fact that on this side too an effort has been made in the plausible act of intervention, that is, on the senators in activity and on the prospects of vitality of the same. Of course, it is less plausible, and I think it is even less justifiable, to intervene on previous positions, on those who are not in business and who no longer have the opportunity to have a recovery of their position. But I also want to say that the controversy of these days, which pertains to the social security system, not to the Senate, but in general to our country, has seen many people use the issue of parliamentary vitality as a strong theme to undermine the principles of the social security system on which the same, in general, is structured. We now have, following the Fornero reform, a social security system that is totally contributory, which means that pensions are paid on the basis of contributions paid in working life, even if this does not apply to all workers. Previously there was a mixed system, derived from the Dini reform, partly contributory and partly payable. What does the pay system mean? I want to explain why I would like it to be understood when we talk about it: it means supplementing pension treatment on the basis of the labour cost of the last five or ten years of activity, depending on the type of employment contract. This allowed in Italy to hold a certain social structure with pensions; if we had gone in the direction of a pure capitalization, as is the case with private insurance, or of a pure contribution, with a mathematical system, we would have seen pensions reduced by 60-70 percent compared to those currently receiving those to whom the remuneration system applies. This is a very big issue, which obviously does not concern today's debate, although someone has used our system to break down the more general one. I would recommend to those who chair important social security bodies to deal with the provision of insurance, because the Senate and Parliament in general have the duty to deal with their own pension with respect to the country, with a distinction of roles that does not want to block opinions, but that wants to guarantee the absolute autonomy of the Chambers in their behavior, in their discernment, as well as in their autonomous and democratic function in the country. The Chambers have demonstrated over these years that they have understood the message that the economic crisis has come to the country. The Senate has progressively reduced the expenditure on which it could act in terms of operation; functional expenditure has been reduced and capital and investment expenditure has been reduced as much as possible, without reducing the efficiency and effectiveness of legislative action. In this sense, it seems to me to say that the work done by the Quaestors, who will now account for the numerical structure of the 2014 budget and the forecasts for the financial year 2015, by the Commissions and, in general, by the management of the Senate, has sincerely achieved those objectives of efficiency and effectiveness to which it was aimed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked Senator Commissioner De Poli to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u35	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Sangalli for his initial illustration. I would say that it has also given some general indications of a political and institutional debate that we have seen in recent years and in recent months in particular: I think it is a fundamental and important aspect that we will certainly find in the months to follow. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to explain the results of the efforts made since the beginning of this 17th legislature to reduce expenditure on our Senate institution. We are well aware of the responsibility to which we are called, especially at a time when the scissors between the country and the institutions that represent it seem increasingly widening. We are in an extremely important moment of transition: I am referring to the path of institutional reforms, which must be pursued decisively, together with the path of economic and fiscal reforms. We therefore have a duty to act so that the image of the institutions, in particular of our institution, can improve and change in the perception of Italians. The numbers that I will be going to explain to you represent a mid-term budget. These results are the result of the efforts made to achieve the objectives of rationalization of expenditure and better use of resources, making the administrative machinery more efficient and effective. These are two objectives that we know we can only achieve if we invest in the word innovation. The real challenge to be overcome is precisely this: to innovate public administration and also to innovate our institution of the Senate, but with respect for the institutions, which are one of the cornerstones of the life and development of a democratic state and a civil society like ours. The Senate did not want to escape the effort that the whole country is facing, in a moment that remains of great economic difficulty, in view of an improvement of the public finances. This is demonstrated by the historical series of Senate spending, which follows a clear downward trend (- 8% compared to 2012). Although there are clear factors in the rigidity of expenditure, there has been an acceleration in the containment of expenditure itself. The lowest common denominator of the measures that I will shortly describe to you is represented precisely by the term innovation, which is at the extremes of another philosophy, anti-political and populist, which instead intends to reset and cancel the institutions and, ultimately, favor the fact of immobilism. Action must be taken to renew policy. That is why I believe that the path of reform must be pursued to the full, with the appropriate improvements to be made, even in the run, giving a clear signal to the public and restoring credibility and prestige to the political system. The final budget for 2014 and the draft budget for 2015 are presented to the House today. The reports, together with the documents you will find attached to this document, illustrate in detail the measures implemented by the Senate of the Republic, which has carried out a rigorous and targeted policy of reducing and rationalising expenditure. From the attention of the Senate to energy policies to the digital revolution, there are several fronts on which this institution has decided to push for change and modernisation. That was the philosophy we adopted. Once made our own, we replicated it in a model on all other sectors within our Senate, for example in the field of computer infrastructures, with the new technologies of virtualization of workstations, with the e-cloud, with the logic of less hardware and therefore greatly reducing the costs (only with this more than 1 million euros per year). This is one of the novelties of the digital revolution that in the coming months we will see concretely implemented inside Palazzo Madama. The Senate becomes a model for the parliaments of Europe. We are the only, together with Portugal, to have equipped ourselves with e-cloud technologies, as I said before. Innovating makes sense if we save, if we improve the level of efficiency. This is the thread of the actions that we have put in place, such as those carried out in the field of energy policies with a series of measures such as the adoption of electric cars and low-consumption lighting in all the offices of Palazzo Madama (more than 90 percent of our institution now has this kind of lighting). It is evident to all that the scope of the actions carried out at times has a merely symbolic value, but equally important in the year in which - I remember - Pope Francis for the first time in history with the encyclical on the environment has put attention on some themes in the perspective of safeguarding future generations by putting man at the centre. It's true. There are not only cold budget figures, although they are important. I will now proceed to the illustration of the accounts of the Senate's revenue and expenditure accounts for the financial year 2014. This document has shown a positive trend in management confirming the progress made on the spending review front. In 2014, in fact, the total expenditure of Palazzo Madama amounted to 501.626.666 euros, net of the savings to be paid to the State, therefore a expenditure in decrease for more than eleven million euros, that is -2,21 percent compared to 2013. With reference to the previous three years, however, the total expenditure at balance shows a decrease of more than 8% (precisely, 8,18 percent). We recall here some of the main measures to limit the 2014 budget expenditure, including: in the senatorial area, the reduction of the allowance, the daily allowance, the reimbursement of expenses that produced a saving, only in 2014, of 2,230,000 euros; in the staff area the stop of the adjustment of contracts and the new retirements have led to a saving of more than 6,8 million euros. In the area of goods and services, moreover, altogether we record a decrease of the costs pairs to 5 million euros of which: 789,000 in leases and utilities, 863,000 of savings in logistic services, other 622,000 euros of savings in ordinary maintenance and one and a half million euros of less costs thanks to the dematerialization of the parliamentary acts and the internalization of the services of prepress. This testifies to the particular attention that we wanted to devote to these services and, in particular, to those services carried out inside, among other things, with a job of staff much less than in the past (in this regard I remember that the staff has gone from 1,350 units to less than 700). With the effort to internalize some services we have assigned additional tasks. It is true that there are all the computer aspects that I have just mentioned, but it is a further effort that we are asking our collaborators and our staff to whom we thank the College of Quaestors, also in view of the many difficulties we have encountered in recent months, in particular with regard to the concierge, the services of the House and, therefore, the parliamentary assistants. In fact, we had to computerize many of the Senate's accesses, also ask for help from the law enforcement forces to ensure security and to be able to cope with a reduction in staff that has put us, in many ways and in many areas, in difficulty. In November 2014 a new structure was given to the Senate with the nominations of the Directors and the three Deputy Secretaries General. I would like to thank the Secretary-General and all of them for coordinating this work for the current year and for having dealt with the shortage of staff by proceeding with innovation and always achieving better concrete results (this is the goal we set ourselves). So, leaving out the tables and staying at your disposal for all the specific data and whatever else, which are nevertheless included in the full text of my report, which I ask the Presidency to attach to the report of today's sitting, I immediately move to the illustration of the 2015 budget. As I pointed out in the introduction, numerical results are the result of a complex set of actions. It will be my duty, in this passage of the report, to explain the clear and unequivocal link between the actions implemented and the impact these measures have had in terms of keeping the Senate's internal accounts. Consistent with the financial objectives contained in the guidelines of the 2015 forecast balance sheet, set by this Shareholders' Meeting on the occasion of the 2014 forecast balance sheet and the 2014-2016 three-year balance sheet, the expenditures decreased and amounted to 540 million euros. Therefore, with regard to the smaller resources that we will ask the State, Palazzo Madama, as happened in the three years 2012-2014, also in the years 2015-2017, will ask the State for less financial resources and precisely the budget will be reduced by 21,6 million euros per year compared to the amount of 2011. This figure, which is already positive, is even more significant considering that the Senate budget is reduced without any monetary revaluation that takes into account the inflationary effects that, of course, affect the management of the administrative machinery. This EUR 21.6 million is therefore less money that we are going to demand from the state. In addition, with regard to the solidarity contributions of former senators and former employees, the solidarity contribution provided for by the 2014 Stability Act on the pension treatment of former employees and former senators will bring a revenue that, only for the current year, will amount to 6.4 million euros: they are additional resources that we go to return to the coffers of the State. Further savings come from the economies that we have achieved and are equal to 11 million euros and are, in fact, additional resources that we have saved by intervening, as I said before, on various chapters of the budget itself. On the whole, therefore, reading the three most salient data, we note that the forecast budget has a positive effect on public finance of 39 million euros less spending for 2015. Therefore, for the fifth consecutive year, Palazzo Madama's balance sheet shows the least sign, with differentiated trends in relation, clearly, to the type of expenditure. This means, and this can also be important for our citizens, that Palazzo Madama spends less than 0.75 cents of euro per month for every Italian citizen. Entering into detail, the running expenses of the Senate clearly represent the most important macro area, as President Sangalli also said earlier. The aggregate, again this year, decreases by 23.3 million euros compared to 2014, with a saving of 7.3 percent. So, in percentage terms, we record a further decrease of 8.9% compared to 2013 (the first year of our legislature) and 7.3% compared to 2014. This gives us the impression that it is precisely this item that is the lever on which to push to achieve more results in terms of savings, although it must also be pointed out that overall, if we look at social security costs, while registering a dynamic of opposite sign to that of operating expenses, the balance between the greater expenses due to new pensions and those related to the lower costs of salaries is positive. So, even with this, we have a balance between the two items that define our budget. The ten actions that I am going to show you now have two characteristics: the first is that they affect the public accounts of the Senate in a structural way, and therefore not only one-off, since they remain in time; the second is that they concern wide-ranging interventions and targeted on the different sectors of the life of the Senate of the Republic: from staff dependent to the competences of the senators, to the races carried out, to the various services that we go to carry out. As I said before, the solidarity contribution that applies to the social security treatment of former employees and senators brings in three years a total saving of 18.4 million euros for the coffers of Palazzo Madama. The competences of the senators and the cut to the audience of the special secretariats bring a lower burden to the Senate coffers of 25 million euros (6.2 million euros per year, multiplied in the four years since 2012). To confirm the positive effects of the measures to limit parliamentary allowances there is a certain percentage: in fact, between 2001 and 2015 the relationship between the expenditure reserved for senators' allowances and the total budget of the Senate has been almost halved. So it has gone from 19.15 percent in 2001 to 10 percent in 2015, so the relationship between Senate spending and the compensation of senators has practically halved. Therefore, attention has also been given to the needs outside these institutions, and therefore to our citizens. A further action worthy of note, which goes in the direction of a greater reduction in expenditure, is represented by a reduction (which we did a few months ago) of 30% of the expenses relating to the secretariats of the former Presidents of the Senate and the Republic. This measure must be complemented by the measure we had already adopted at the beginning of the parliamentary term and which concerned all senators with positions (I am referring therefore to the Presidents of the Commission, the members of the Presidency Council) and in particular the reduction that the President of the Senate has operated autonomously since the beginning of the parliamentary term should be added. Then there is the chapter on employee personnel and turnover blocking and reorganization. As I said, from 1,350 employees we have gone down to less than 700 and clearly, despite this decrease, we still have a Senate that is working, indeed we are innovating and trying to make efficiency one of the most qualifying aspects that we are going to define. I therefore take up the previous reasoning, thanking all our employees. The actions we have put in place in this area have resulted in a reduction in the planned allocation for employees, from 124,170,000 in 2014 to 98,600,000 in 2015: this is therefore a strong reduction of 18% in percentage terms, placing us at the level of back 2003. Another issue that colleagues and our collaborators have repeatedly called for is precisely the discipline of collaborators. It is precisely in this respect that I have seen that important agendas have been put forward concerning the attention and transparency that we must give to this point. I remember that since last year we have inserted the forecast for which those who have a collaborator must deposit the contract to our offices and must also send it to the competent territorial offices of the Ministry of Labour. In addition, we are putting in place a further tool to help our offices, therefore consulting, with the National Council of the Order of Labour Consultants to give further help to both the senators and the Groups in relation to the new regulations, in order to make the collaboration relationship between us and our own collaborators more effective and transparent. Another important aspect is the issue of tenders, which clearly take place in full transparency in all their aspects, as also required by external legislation. We have carried out a whole series of competitions related to infrastructure, computer science, digital production center, audio-visual monitoring, web TV, a race recently carried out, which will soon also define a new organization with regard to the various Commissions and all their reports in which there could be a recovery, travel agencies, the platform news agencies and Internet connectivity. We have signed the new contract for the digital reproduction center, with the philosophy print on demand, with a saving of more than one million euros, and have just defined the new competition for the renewal of computer structures with e-cloud technology, also in this case with a saving of millions of euros and also with a reduction of energy costs estimated in 310,000 kilowatts annually. Even in the economy sector, also thanks to the increasingly frequent use of the electronic market, we have achieved significant savings since 2012 - more than 19%, particularly with regard to departmental printers, representation costs (-62 percent), car costs (-46 percent). As for the energy policies of Palazzo Madama, as you have seen, we are intervening to make Palazzo Madama become green and sustainable. This is an important aspect, which we believe is fundamental to the life of each of us, but also to give an equally important image to all our citizens. 90 percent of the lamps installed in the buildings of the Senate are at low consumption; we installed a photovoltaic system in 2013 in the roof of the logistics center of the Senate and this, as a regime, will give us 65,000 euros of revenue. As you know, we have acquired four electric cars, to give an important message both as regards costs (four euros per 150 kilometers), but also as regards all aspects of handling within the city of Rome and not only. The process of integration between the House and the Senate is also continuing in an important and profitable way. In this respect too, it is clear that a number of interventions are taking place both on the organisational part of our structures, with the creation of reference poles, and on the part concerning the status aspect of Members and clearly also of employees. We have also organisationally reformed our health center, with a rationalization of the services carried out within the Senate of the Republic, as well as with a convention with the ARES 118, therefore with the prompt public intervention, giving the possibility to 118 to have a fixed point in one of the structures of the Senate, precisely under Palazzo Cenci, in order to be able to intervene for all the citizens who in the center did not have an immediate intervention and I believe that this is an important step that the Senate makes towards the outside, especially the tourists, the elderly people and all those who need it in this area, who did not have any intervention garrison. We did so, again, to give a signal of significant Senate openness to our citizens. The reorganization of internal services will instead lead us to a savings of 120,000 euros annually, also compared to the costs of the health center. We have also had savings on rentals, thanks to the disposals, which amount to 151,000 euros. I would like to conclude my report with two figures: the relationship between state spending and Senate spending today is at the same levels as in 2001, i.e. 15 years ago; the current ratio is 0.064 euros compared to state spending, which is 825 billion. In conclusion, from the beginning of the legislature to today, in just three years, the financial weight of the Senate on the state budget has been reduced by about 115 million euros, resources that can be usefully reused for other purposes and returned to the state coffers. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u36	The Presidency shall authorise it to attach the full text of the report. I declare the joint debate open. Senator Petrocelli is enrolled to speak, who will also explain the agendas of the G25 and G44 during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u37	Mr President, on the G25 agenda, our Group, in an absolutely aseptic way, considers what Senator Questre De Poli has already said and, in any case, in full the draft budget for 2015, insists that, as we have already seen in two and a half years of activity, the activity of each Senator requires the support of assistance and collaboration of staff that we believe should be highly qualified and high-level. What we are asking for on this agenda is that, since the sums which are recognised in favour of parliamentary collaborators are entirely borne by the individual senators under the Rules of Procedure of the Senate at the moment, we would like to see regularisation, as is the case in the European Parliament, in this case adapting to a sort of 'crystal' Europe demands, working relations in such a way that we can overcome the current regime which leaves wide margin of discretion for individual parliamentarians and, in this case, senators. On this agenda we would ask that there be a regulation in this area which avoids the paradox that has been established and that the professional figure of the parliamentary collaborator be recognized by establishing a sort of register and that a direct relationship of professional collaboration between the individual parliamentarians and the administration of the Senate can be moved. On the G44 agenda, we would like to speak on the publicity of Parliament's work on two particular aspects: one concerns the Presidency Council and the other the College of Quaestors. On this agenda, we would ask that we be able to standardise the proceedings of these two bodies, including those of the two bodies, with what is already happening with the publicity of the work of this House and of the Commissions. At the moment, in fact, we find it paradoxical that we cannot follow, even in deferred with the publication on the Senate website, the video recordings of the sessions themselves. On the same agenda, we would request the creation of a database containing all the deliberations of the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors, so as to make it available on the Senate website. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u38	In the context of the harmonization of time, since you are already self-limiting, I would not give more than five minutes for the illustration. I hope that's enough.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u39	Senator Cotti is enrolled to speak, who will also present the G9 agenda during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u40	The G9 agenda is about the numbers of allowances and daily allowances we receive as senators. The 5 Star Movement has on many occasions expressed its opinion on the fact that the charge allowance is excessive in its amount. The same is true of the diaries. Our proposal is to halve the allowances granted to the senators, which should receive only - it is done to say "only" because it would still be a nice figure - about 5,000 gross euros per month, while the daily should be reduced to 3,500 euros per month. Let us bear in mind, among other things, that the diary is not taxable and that very often it is made absolutely improper use of. I am thinking, for example, of all my fellow senators who give some of their emoluments to the political party they belong to. It is a behavior that has no justification, also because there is a law on the financing of political parties in which this sort of spontaneous contribution given by senators with money taken from the salary, from the diary or however from where they should not be taken should not enter. In fact, this money (especially that of the diary) should be spent only on activities related to the performance of the mandate and to live in the capital. They should therefore also be reported, as citizens should know how all the money they spend is used to act as senator. The agenda therefore commits the College of Quaestors Senators and the Presidency Council to reduce the amount of allowances and allowances, as always supported by the 5 Star Movement. I hope that the press and the information world will correctly report this position, which has often been distorted in the past.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u41	Senator Gaetti, who will also present the G10 agenda in the course of his speech, is a member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u42	Mr President, I rise to explain the G10 agenda. At a time of crisis like the one we are going through, public opinion sees with increasing suffering the privileges, including the benefits paid to senators in relation to the office held. Citizens, for example, do not understand why the President of a permanent Commission should receive about EUR 1,000 more per month, a Vice President about EUR 600 and a Secretary about EUR 300. I remember that the Senators of the 5 Star Movement renounce this money already at the time of their election to the Commissions. Moreover, these allowances are not justified by any increase in work or increased professional responsibility. I would like to point out that, if everyone did as we are already doing, there would be savings of around EUR 500,000 per year with only reference to the Permanent Commissions. In my opinion, the citizens would see this very clearly. As a 5 Star Movement, we therefore ask that the Presidency Council and the College of Senators quaestors remove all allowances paid to senators in relation to their office. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u43	Senator Morra is a member of the House, who will also be presenting the G47 agenda during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the G47 agenda calls for the Senate to become a glass house for all Italians. The request is to equip all the classrooms in which meetings of Commissions or Parliamentary Councils are held with the instruments suitable to broadcast live streaming on the Senate's web TV. Therefore, we are also calling for the same web TV to be enhanced by providing, in addition, a dedicated channel for each Commission and Parliamentary Assembly. What is the reason for this agenda? In our view, if we want to grow, we must promote knowledge, which must be given everything that is proposed, discussed and voted on. I am thinking, for example, of the previous vote. Now, just as it is right for the House to do so, we believe it is equally right to do so for the functional sections of this House, which are the Commissions. I am almost provocatively asking what the Italians might imagine, imagine and think if they had been able to follow all the meetings of the Budget Committee when the Budget Committee is committed to examining the Stability Act. I believe that it is the right of everyone to have access to information; that we then do so is another speech. But if we want to make the democracy of knowledge and equal access to information complete, this is the way to go. That is the point of our agenda and we hope that it will be welcomed by those who have to do so. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u45	Senator Pegorer is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u46	Mr President, the documents we are examining are in a situation which sees two particularly important points in pressing on our institution. The first concerns the issue of constitutional reform, now once again under discussion in the Senate; the second, as the debate of these hours and days is there to demonstrate, is the need for necessary reform processes to be carried out in the country able to allow rationalization in the use of public resources also in order to contribute thus to the promotion of growth. In this scenario, therefore, our discussion cannot help but ask a simple question: what contribution can be made to further rationalise the functioning of this House and, consequently, to better use the resources made available, also making further and even more marked savings? Moreover, this objective must be considered entirely practicable, taking into account what has already been done over the last few years. In fact, if we take the financial values of 2010, during the last few years a significant process of rationalization and containment of expenditure has been promoted and achieved, which has involved almost all the chapters of the Senate's internal budget, obtaining savings also of a structural nature. In this respect, it should be noted that these first objectives were achieved through a reduction in operating expenditure and in the part relating to expenditure on the senators' term of office: a point, the latter, strongly desired and pursued by the Democratic Party Group. The same exercise surplus of 2014, which stands at about 40 million euros, shows how much it has been doing in the course of the last managements. The budget proposes for the three-year period 2015-2017 a further reduction in total expenditure. I would like to point out to my colleagues that operating costs have been reduced (about EUR 21 million compared to 2013), as well as the savings that can be derived from the possible - I insist, possible - process of merging functions and services with the Chamber of Deputies. Perhaps we should point out - I am addressing the College of Quaestors - that some further reduction in expenditure could be pursued. In my view, the current forecasts could be further revised by strengthening the rationalization measures which have already been implemented in this area at the beginning of the parliamentary term. For other items and macro aggregates of expenditure, however, the 2015 budget aims at achieving the same targets in 2014. In essence, precisely because of the objective conditions under which the State finances are located, it is appropriate to understand whether there are still margins for better use of the resources available, without taking away anything from the positive assessments of the performances so far recorded. From this point of view, it is evident in the reading of the data available that the overall improvement recorded does not, for example, confirm the increase in expenditure on the treatment of employees, as well as in the expenditure chapters relating to the treatment of former senators. It is therefore clear that a more careful and articulated assessment of these expenditure aggregates should be put in place immediately in order to foresee the setting-up of appropriate corrective measures, thereby improving their trends. At the same time, in addition to the initiatives already put in place in connection with the unification of parliamentary structures, these intentions should be implemented as soon as possible, also by immediately promoting the unification and strengthening of certain services of identical content. As reiterated in the discussions on the Senate's internal budget on previous occasions, a further point that could lead to a rationalization of expenditure and an adequate qualification remains in the field. I am referring to the need to address the issue of parliamentary collaborators, by taking the necessary measures to give maximum contractual transparency to assistance to parliamentary work, including by pooling the experience gained in other European Parliaments. This would allow us, Mr President, to discuss seriously the same issue as the ancillary allowances of Members of Parliament, making this institution more transparent and effective. Finally, but not least, one issue on which to intervene decisively is certainly the so-called treatment for former senators. This is all the more necessary in relation to the very nature of the solidarity fund if it is projected in the years to come. From this point of view, some experiences of parliamentary institutions in other parts of Europe could be taken into account, i.e. promoting regulatory solutions to ensure that a coherent cheque is paid in future to actual payments made. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by highlighting all the attention paid to the documents under consideration, particularly by pointing out the desirability, with regard to the sensitive issue of staff, of continuing the work of harmonizing the legal and economic conditions of the staff of the Chambers, with the aim of creating a single role, on the basis of what is envisaged in the bill for constitutional reform of the Senate, which knows even more and better how to enhance the very high quality and recognized professionalism of such staff. Finally, Mr President, starting from the commitment of proposals and activities of the College of Quaestors, which will certainly not fail, I therefore believe that it is possible, in the immediate future, to put in place further measures to rationalise and qualify expenditure, addressing those aggregates which still present, as I said, considerable margins of action. The achievement of these objectives would, in my opinion, make the Senate of the Republic an example and a model of reference for the entire public administration. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u47	Senator Crimi, who will also present the G14 agenda in the course of his speech, is a member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u48	Mr President, I would like to explain the agenda for the G14, which refers to the senator's term of office expenses and their reporting, and in particular to the voice, which is often used by many senators, of liberal donations to the political parties to which they belong. This is an expenditure which can be used, in accordance with a resolution of the Presidency Council, for reporting purposes. Just to explain well what it is all about, every senator, in addition to the allowance relating to his own activity - equal to about 5,000 euros net - receives the so-called diary and general expenses - for an amount of about 4,000 euros - and also receives what is called the item of mandate expenses, which is born exclusively to allow the relationship between elected and voters and therefore to allow the senator to open a secretariat office, to maintain contact with the territory, to organize events and to buy materials, such as books or other material useful for the performance of his parliamentary activity. All this is regulated and there are charges allowed: these figures can not be used to buy green underwear, as someone has done, or other means for raising, as someone else has done in other bodies, for example regional. These sums must be spent for precise purposes and in fact the Senate claims that they are reported every four months: they cannot be used to do what you want. However, we do not ask for the full amount to be reported, which is approximately EUR 4,100 or EUR 4,200 - I do not remember the precise amount - but we ask for at least half of the report and we could already discuss the possibility of increasing the quota to be reported. I repeat: these are expenditures which must be earmarked for a specific purpose. Well, to the parties, in addition to the electoral refunds, to the 2 per thousand of the IRPEF and to everything else, each Member or Senator, as is known, pays a quota, which is often established with precise amounts and is not random. There are, in fact, signed contracts and receipts are issued. Instead of being paid to a fund - for example a fund for micro-credit, as someone else does - these resources are being paid into party coffers, as if the parties did not already have plenty. But not only that: this money, paid into the party's coffers, is also indicated in the tax return among deductible expenses, and is used to report that part of the mandate expenses, which should be intended exclusively, precisely, for the performance of their mandate, leaving the remaining part, not reported, in the senator's freedom, that can do with it what he wants. In the end we find ourselves financing the parties further, with indirect, hidden funding, which is also reported and used as an excuse to justify the expenses of the mandate. That is not an elected-elector relationship; that is not an expense that can be justified in maintaining the elected relationship with the voters. In some cases, invoices and reports are even issued which justify services provided by parties to senators. That's not good, ma'am. That is an item that must be exclusively linked to the exercise of the mandate, to pay for example the collaborators, on the basis of contracts. It is clear that if the collaborator is paid in black, half of the office costs cannot be justified and another way to do so must be found. This is the situation we are in. I therefore feel that this agenda on which the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors are committed to revising that item of expenditure which, however, is to be reported and which concerns the sums paid as a liberal payment to the parties, which already have plenty of money. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u49	Senator Santangelo is enrolled to speak, who will also present the G35 agenda during his speech. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u50	Mr President, on the agenda, Mr G35 commits the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors, as provided for in Article 22 of Legislative Decree No 165 of 2001, to assess the desirability of introducing a precise time limit for certain functional positions covered within the Senate, which is already the case for the tasks assigned to the public administration. Given that very often some positions within the institutions remain perhaps for too long crystallised, a precise time limit is envisaged through this agenda. In the present case, the reference period is not less than three years and not more than five years, as is the case for public administration. I believe that this is a perfectly sensible agenda and I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to consider it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u51	Senator Parente, who will also present the G24 agenda during her speech, is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u52	Mr President, I am speaking to bring the issue of parliamentary collaborators to the attention of this House. The G24 agenda is the result of these months' discussions with the parliamentarians' association, which has about 100 members, belonging to all groups across the board. I have here with me a table on how the relations between parliamentarians and collaborators are regulated in the various countries, with reference also to the forms of protection in terms of illness and social security: on these issues Italy is absolutely behind. I think that we must reap the discomfort of those people who are closest to us every day, who help us in the difficult parliamentary work and who take very often care of our territories because, if there is a discomfort, it means that there is a problem. I believe that we must take care of their professionalism, of what they will do after the end of the parliamentary term, thus strengthening and certifying their competences and taking an interest in a number of issues. I note that the G1 agenda summarises some of the issues - not all of them - to which the agenda I am presenting here refers. I also take note of the fact that the G1 agenda of the majority refers to the new jobs act regulations, which we must take into account in the regulation of the report, since in these days, in the Commission I work, we are finishing the examination of the delegation of work and I have been very busy in these situations. So in our home we must absolutely reason and resolve some fundamental issues. I remember that already on the agendas of 2013 and 2014 there were three sentences that committed the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors to consider the issue of parliamentary collaborators, but this has not been done enough; I think now is the time. The work that our collaborators do is very delicate and very important and is based on trust; we must absolutely solve some issues that they ask us and we must intercept their discomfort. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is registered to speak Senator Moronese, who during his speech will also illustrate the agendas of the day G12, G13, G18, G43 and G46. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u53	Mr President, I rise to explain five agendas, but I will try to be within the time allowed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u54	If you need more time, we'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u55	MORONESE (M5S). I'll try to be brief. I'm starting with the G12 agenda. There is much talk of the costs of politics, so much so that even in the case of constitutional reform this excuse has been taken to justify the reform of the Senate. However, I believe that there are so many ways to make this savings and I believe that there are so many immediate actions. I also believe that the Italians do not really have the confidence of what a Member of Parliament perceives and what is being paid to him. Regardless of the monthly allowance, equal to 5,000 euros net, in addition to the exercise of the mandate, equal to 4,180 euros, in addition to the various allowances for the positions assumed in Parliament, in addition to the food and accommodation for 3,500 euros, there is a sum that is called "reimbursement for general expenses" of 1,650 euros net monthly, amounting to 19,800 euros per year for each Member of Parliament. Multiplying this figure by 320, we arrive at an expense of 6.336,000 euros. These general expenses are intended to cover travel and telephone costs. Now, considering that the senators have personal cards in order to be able to move on the national territory with trains, planes, buses and metro and considering that there are offers from telephone operators that, with 50-60 euros monthly, give the possibility to make calls and messages unlimited to everyone and to have also the Internet, we think this figure is really exaggerated. That is why, on this agenda, we are asking the Presidency Council, and in particular the College of Quaestors, to commit themselves to taking all necessary measures in order to halve the monthly lump sum refund for this general expenditure on senators. Only with this action, we would have a saving of 3.150,000 euros net per year. With the G13 agenda, we are talking about transparency, because transparency is the first step towards accountability and it is a guarantee instrument, especially for citizens, who have the opportunity to monitor the work of Members of Parliament and to verify the expenditure they bear. We know that, because we do it every month: we report not only everything we receive, but also everything we spend and, among other things, we return not only 50% of the allowances, but also the surpluses of the diaries. For this reason, with this agenda we commit the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors, for their respective competences, to decide that all expenses incurred with the resources received as reimbursement of expenses for the exercise of the mandate are subject to systematic and timely monthly reporting by the offices of the Senate of the Republic, with appropriate publicity through a dedicated section on the Senate website. I would also like to focus on the word "refund," which the Treccani vocabulary defines as follows: The action to repay, the fact of being reimbursed for what has been spent, has been carried out. I must be reimbursed for what I actually spent and proved to have spent. Therefore, another commitment that we are asking for with this agenda is that every senator should return the part of unreported diary, as we of the 5 Star Movement have been doing for over two and a half years. The G18 agenda is linked to the fact that we are a little tired of listening to the Government, which has repeatedly stated that it must reform or, better, destroy the Senate for economic reasons. We have said that there are so many ways, including abolishing the vitality in favour of those who have been condemned definitively for serious crimes and not, as has been done by all of you, with a false abolition that affects the vitality of only 18 Members. Transparency is therefore essential to make policy more responsible and it is necessary to have the data on names and, above all, the amounts paid as permanent vitality. On the G18 agenda, we commit the College of Quaestors and the Council of Presidents to publish on the Senate's website the names of those who receive parliamentary vitality with the corresponding monthly amounts, the contribution amount paid and the difference between the latter and the total amount received. On the G43 agenda, however, the Senate has done countless times in this legislature to cut public spending, sometimes painful for citizens. We believe that with a view to reducing expenditure, it is also time to harmonize the Senate's expenditure on contributions to foundations, institutions and circles. If we are in the time of spending review for citizens, then we should also do so for this type of expenditure in the chapter "Contributions and subsidies" at an annual expenditure of EUR 1,294,000. We therefore call for this type of contribution and subsidies to be reduced by at least 50%. The last agenda I am going to present is the G46. You yourself, Mr President, on several occasions have said that this must become a glass building with transparency. Unfortunately, this is not the case, and we have said so on several occasions and reiterated it. Mr Morra himself, with the presentation of the G47 agenda, called for this transparency for the work of the Permanent Commissions. Even on budgetary choices there is nothing transparent and we find ourselves familiar with the draft budget and the final statement of the Senate of the Republic only during the approval phase without having then any other instrument except the agendas of the day in order to be able to intervene on the subject. We therefore believe that it is necessary to commit the Bureau and the College of Quaestors to take action to establish a special section on the Senate website where the work can be followed and, where there are approved agendas, the process if it is actually followed up. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u56	It is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi, who during his speech will also illustrate the agendas of the day G38 and G49. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u57	Mr President, on the agenda, Mr G38 we are talking about the implementation of school-work alternation and how this alternation, and therefore the possibility of training courses in workplaces and institutions, can help to achieve an appropriate professional choice through the direct knowledge of the world of work in which it is intended to be included. These training and refresher courses are therefore promoted. Currently here in the Senate it is possible to activate internships that provide insurance coverage for the intern, but do not provide any compensation. Law No 92 of 2012 made substantial changes by introducing national guidelines aimed at establishing minimum and uniform standards throughout the territory in order to avoid a distorted and illegitimate use of traineeships, as unfortunately often happens. These guidelines move in the context of the working document • A framework for the quality of traineeships which was adopted by the European Commission on 18 April 2012 and in the context of the State-Regions Agreement which gave rise to the 2010 Training Guidelines laying down minimum principles and criteria, even if the host is a public administration. The minimum standards laid down in these guidelines provide for the recognition of a minimum allowance for the activities carried out by the trainee and for all those activities, not precisely defined as traineeships, but which, for the manner in which they are carried out, can in fact be equated to periods of training. To date, it has become clear to us, as has been said, that the minimum allowance is not guaranteed in the internships set up by these institutions, which are based on individual conventions. That is why we are asking this House to vote on this agenda, which aims to bring this administration into line with what is required by these documents, as well as to activate for those who are graduating or newly graduate particularly worthy, courses of training which, however, are paid the minimum allowance provided for by these guidelines and also by common sense. The G49, on the other hand, is an agenda that incorporates another request, which always comes to us from Europe, the one that fights food waste. It is a very important battle, of civilization and not just because it is a battle that would put us in a position to understand and help the most needy. But it is also a battle against the conservation and protection of our territory and our environment. Even from there, in fact, also through the contrast to food waste passes the protection of our environment and also of our health. I would like to remind you that every year 150 kilos of food per capita is thrown and that in our country there is a total food waste of 37 billion euros annually, sufficient to feed 44 million people. I repeat: this waste would be sufficient to cover the needs of 44 million people in our country. In January 2012, the European Parliament adopted a resolution requiring all necessary measures to halve food waste within the European Union and to improve access to food for the most vulnerable citizens by 2025. We make a request to this administration, also pursuant to a resolution that on October 7, 2013 approved the Ministry of the Environment, within which is contained a national plan for the prevention of food waste (PINPAS). We call on this administration and this institution to try to adapt and accept these important demands from the European Union and our Ministry of the Environment, and to take a series of measures to combat food waste in the areas of internal distribution and catering in the Senate; to also provide for agreements with voluntary and charitable associations to be made available, through a redistribution plan, for the free donation of food that has been sold or exceeded for the benefit of citizens belonging to the least well-off groups. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u58	Senator Buemi, who will also present the G54 agenda in the course of his speech, is a member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u59	Mr President, I rise to explain my agenda, Mr G54, which deals with the long-standing issue of self-declaration and overcoming this institution, which is not explicitly provided for by any legislative provision, but which has become the internal regulation of the House and the Senate. This is a matter of principle, but it is also a matter of merit and I have explained it through the G54 agenda. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the largest Western democracies have a self-dedication, but only to certain specific situations which protect the legislative activity and not the overall organisation of the parliamentary institutions, which are subject to regulations which may be particular, but which nevertheless fall within the more general system. The G54 agenda requires that we share the judgment of the Court of Cassation, which deals in particular with matters relating to the treatment of work and competence; a question which, in my opinion, strikes with a more general view of employment relations within the public administration, which in my opinion must not have particular areas of treatment and in particular of domestic treatment. This is what we are talking about: at the moment, basically, work issues within the parliamentary institution are dealt with with with with total autonomy. This is the theme. Therefore, the request to the Senate is to support in the Constitutional Court the positions of the Court of Cassation, having regard to the question raised by it on the conflict of attribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u60	She is registered to speak Senator Saggese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are calling for the approval of the two key accounting documents for the functioning of the Senate of the Republic. Senator Questore has already detailed and fully illustrated both the activity carried out in relation to the 2014 report and the programmatic approach for 2015 and for the two years to follow. From this it is evident that this year, both in the statement and in the budget forecast, the Senate of the Republic keeps firm its commitment, now undertaken for several years, to contribute to the reduction of public expenditure through a reduction of the costs of politics. It is a commitment that the Senate, together with the other constitutional bodies, has taken seriously and rigorously, also in the light of the particular economic context that requires a contribution from all, first and foremost of those who are called to manage the public thing. As you know, the constitutional bodies are subject to a special regime, because they enjoy financial autonomy that would separate them from the Commission's economic and budgetary policy guidelines. On the basis of this prerogative, which is peacefully recognised by both the legal doctrine and the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, the political bodies have seen a progressive but constant increase in their endowment in the past years. This is undoubtedly due to the complexity and delicacy of the powers of Parliamentary Assembly in particular. The rooms need first-class expertise; they carry out many functions and have a complex and varied administrative apparatus: just think only of the documentation prepared by the offices, the continuous and highly professional assistance provided for the legislative activity, the support services for the maintenance of the structure, or again, the parliamentary library center, which provides a very useful service for citizens who want to deepen the issues related to social sciences and parliamentary law. In short, it is a series of services of absolute excellence. However, to the extent that the state budget needs to be reduced in order to improve public finances and to relieve taxpayers of a tax burden deemed unanimously excessive, first of all the constitutional bodies are called upon to make their own contribution. So, again this year, the Senate of the Republic is at the forefront to reduce costs without sacrificing the quality of the services offered. The draft general statement for the year 2014 sees a rate of decrease in expenditure of 2.21 per cent compared to the figure for 2013. In absolute terms, it has gone from almost 513 million euros in the year 2013 to about 501 million euros in 2014, with a saving of more than 11 million euros. And if we widen the horizon to the last three years, we can even see that the annual cost has decreased by more than 8% compared to 2011, when the Senate cost the State over 546 million euros per year. Moreover, in the year 2014 a normative forecast (Article 17 of Decree-Law No 66 of 2014) was introduced according to which the Senate is required to return to the State the total amount of the savings made during the financial years, rather than to spread them in the following financial years, thus releasing the resources that can be used for the fiscal policies of the State. In recent years alone, the amount of savings returned to the treasury is more than €14.5 million. It is also necessary to mention the deliberations of the Presidency Council which have introduced a solidarity contribution to the pension treatment of former senators and former employees, amounting to EUR 6.4 million for 2015, which will be returned to the state's coffers. In addition, in recent years, the entries relating to allowances and ancillary powers for senators in office, as well as the amounts paid for senators who ceased their term of office and for parliamentary groups, have steadily decreased. Dramatic reductions are recorded in 2014 on the side of the costs of the special secretariats for the former Presidents of the Senate and the former Presidents of the Republic (-11 percent) and, in general, external advice, reduced by as much as 27 percent. The draft budget for 2015 follows the same philosophy of cost reduction. A substantial intervention will concern the employees: there remains the blockage of the turnover that has seen the passage of the staff in a few years, as Senator Questere De Poli has already said, from more than 1170 to less than 700 units, with consequent reorganization of the offices and the structures that have allowed, thanks only to the competence, the availability and the professional preparation of our staff, to maintain the levels of efficiency and quality of the performances; for the first time this year have been introduced limits to the salaries of the employees of the Senate that will lead to a saving of expenditure for 2015 of approximately 4.4 million euros; finally, also for the staff, it has continued in the work, already undertaken last year, of integration of the functions and services between Chamber and Senate, for the creation of the unique role of the employees with the objective to optimize the use of human resources and to avoid, in general, useless and costly duplications, above all with the aim of overcoming the bicameralism equal. Important and significant were also the initiatives taken on the energy policy front that, in addition to ensuring economic savings, allow the Senate to be at the forefront in promoting the diffusion of a culture of sustainable development. The time available to me is coming to an end and I will not go into any further detail, because others before me have certainly done it better, on the details of the draft budget. I wanted to mention only a few important points in my opinion to highlight the commitment that the constitutional bodies, and in particular the Senate of which we are a member, are putting to reduce the costs of politics. We must not overemphasize our efforts: however strong they may be, they will not solve the budgetary problems of our country. It is our duty to make this clear in order to avoid false illusions, but it is our duty to continue the effort to rationalise and efficiency the resources of the parliamentary bodies: to reduce the budget of the constitutional bodies, I believe, is the right contribution that the political class must make to the community. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u62	The joint debate is closed. As the rapporteur does not intend to speak in his reply, I call on Senator Questor Malan, who I would also ask to give his opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u63	Mr President, before we move on to the agenda, on which I will reply to the many senators who have spoken to present them, I would like to thank those who have not presented the agenda directly, such as Senator Pegorer and Senator Saggese. I thank them for their contribution, which also reflects the work done by the Presidency Council. The important goals that have been achieved - in a nutshell, they are a strong reduction in spending and an efficiency of the Senate structure - come out not alone, but thanks to the collaboration of everyone, starting with the leadership and the impulse of the President. The work carried out by the entire Presidency Council and within the College of Quaestors, with the valuable cooperation of Senate staff, has enabled these objectives to be achieved. Turning to agendas, I am voting in favour of the G1 agenda, which contains a number of other agendas which deal with the same points in its wording. In particular, the G2 agenda, which calls for the amalgamation and rationalisation of the organisation, falls on the G1 agenda, item (a). As regards the G3 agenda, it is accepted as a recommendation, of course always in the context of reorganisation and harmonisation, together with the House, of staff and functions. It is important to stress that it does not affect its functionality, because the strong reduction in staff required a major effort of reorganization and work by all the staff themselves. The G4 agenda is taken up by the G1 agenda, as are the G5, G6 and G7 agendas. Then there are some agendas that examine the economic treatment of senators, which we consider to be excluded from the agenda G1, which gives the impetus to a coordination work with the House that has already begun and is moving forward. As part of this coordination, in order to establish uniform treatment between the two branches of Parliament, the various bodies proposed by the G8, G9, G10, G11, G12 and G13 agendas are and will be examined. I would like to point out that the allowances they cover were halved at the beginning of this parliamentary term and had already been reduced in the previous one. The opinion on the G14 agenda was opposed. The function of the parties is provided for in the Constitution and we believe that it is normal for them to be included in the accounting costs. The G15 agenda was adopted as a recommendation. It is a question of studying the matter. Most of the missions are carried out in the Commission or bicameral delegations. It's about coordinating with the House. We believe that the principles of irretroactivity of the rule and legitimate expectations established by the Constitutional Court and the Court of Strasbourg make the G16, G17 and G21 technically inadmissible. On the G18 agenda, the opinion was in favour of amending the proposal to end it with the words 'Parliamentary life'. There would be the publication on the website of the names of the subjects who perceive the parliamentary vitality and would eliminate the remaining words. The opinion on the G19 agenda was opposed. It should be pointed out that in the Senate all the rules for reducing public expenditure have always been applied, in particular with regard to the salaries of State employees. The Senators continued to be applied also those which, perhaps, have fallen due to the Constitutional Court's decisions. We therefore take the opposite view on the further action requested. We also express our opposition to the G20 agenda, which deals with a very recent resolution, which is the result of work done. I believe that it is consistent to maintain the wording approved by the Presidency Council and that it already has its effects. On the G22 agenda, the opinion is opposed, as a number of speeches have been made over the last few years on this subject, which we believe to be sufficient. We are opposed to the G23 agenda, because we believe that the tasks of the Senate President's Cabinet are important for the performance of the Senate's functions and on the related costs, however, a considerable reduction has already been made. The G24 agenda is taken up by the G1 agenda. The topic addressed is that of the collaborators of the parliamentarians, which falls within the scope of the study made, overall, on the support necessary for the implementation of the mandate of the parliamentarians. The following G25, G26 and G27 are also absorbed into the G1 agenda. On the G28 agenda, the opinion is against this, as we cannot think of resetting the advice, which has already been dealt with in a major reduction (at least 63 per cent). It is clear that what remains is necessary. In addition, the reduction in the number of employees from 1,170 to 700 indicates that, in some cases, they have been supplied with advice. I would point out that the Senate does not have the appearance of a sort of fixed advice, which is instead present in the Chamber of Deputies. I repeat: in the Chamber this figure exists, while not by us. In the Senate, consultations are requested on specific points that require professionalism that are not present among the staff. However, it would be absolutely uneconomic to even think of hiring such consultants. The G29 agenda was adopted as a recommendation, while the G30 agenda was rejected. Agendas G31, G32, G33 and G34 are absorbed by agenda G1. On the G35 agenda, the orientation is contrary, as I think it has been inspired by the situation in the Chamber of Deputies, where there is talk of "substantial immobilism" which has seen the same subjects remain in charge of the same Service for too long a period of time (...). In the Senate this situation did not occur. In fact, for a long time we have remained with the roles of Head of Service vacant and only recently we have made the appointment, with a view to a reduction and rationalization. I therefore call for this agenda to be withdrawn. We are against the G36 agenda. The G37 agenda was adopted as a recommendation. Public-private mobility must, however, be compatible with the senate's service needs and it should also be remembered that the strong reduction of staff undoubtedly offers small margins. The G38 agenda was adopted as a recommendation. As has been pointed out several times, it is clear that where - as we hope - the internship will be re-introduced to the Senate Offices, it will have to be done in full compliance with the laws, as it is right that it is. In the same way, it is right that, by law, the obligation to pay, albeit minimal, has been imposed on trainees. I am in favour of the G39 agenda, because the Council's parameters are already being used. I am against the G40 agenda, because there have already been substantial reductions in this area. I give a favourable opinion on the G41 agenda, with a slight rewording: in the device remove the word "strictly" and the words "starting from musical events," exhibitions, book presentations and conferences" and then replace the subsequent words "that are not closely related to legislative activity" with the following: "that are not related to legislative activity". This too has already been done, which is why the opinion is in favour. I am in favour of the G42 agenda. I would remind you that we have revenue from the use of the rooms, which are made available for a fee, provided that the proposed activities are compatible with the prestige of the Senate. I am opposed to the G43 agenda, with a commitment to better study the issue, deepening the usefulness of the payments in question. I would point out, however, that contributions and subsidies on behalf of the Institute are included in the forecast, but they have involved spending nothing in recent years: therefore, we have done more than reduce by 50%. I am against the G44 agenda. Here, too, we will work to meet the needs of greater transparency. On the other hand, I am in favour of the G45 agenda, because what is being asked is already being done, as far as possible, and we intend to continue in the same direction. We welcome the G46 agenda as a recommendation. We must avoid bureaucratic burdens. I think it is important above all to implement the agendas, even more than to report them, but we will certainly work in this direction. The G47 agenda is inadmissible for the part concerning the parliamentary committees, whose work is not public; as far as the Commissions are concerned, the work in the referent and consultative bodies is not public, as required by the Rules of Procedure. If anything, regulatory action should be taken in accordance with the procedures laid down. However, it must be said that the call for tenders has already been made for the web TV, which involves an enhancement of the instruments, so that a greater number of those works of the Commissions that the Regulation allows to broadcast can be transmitted. I therefore call for the withdrawal of this impervious agenda. I am against the G48 agenda because there is no such database. All acts of the Senate are public and published, and each of them constitutes a precedent. Then it is the skill, ability and memory of officials, as well as parliamentarians, to look for those appropriate to the various circumstances. This is an issue that has already been raised in the past, with the alternation of majorities, but we do not seem to have the maximum mentioned. I am in favour of the G49 agenda, as it has already been included in the invitation to tender for catering services. Invitation to withdraw the G50 agenda. In part - as has already been said and as is well known and also visible - we are ahead of any other institution for the electrification of the car park, but it cannot be done in full (you can not fully switch to electric cars) for obvious practical reasons, service and even efficiency. Perhaps one day technical progress will allow this - not today - but a lot of work has been done. I am opposed to order G51, because supplementary assistance, which is completely autonomous and in absolute balance, is based on a mutual system, which must of course start with the senators in office. [[Comments of Senator De Poli]] In fact, since this parliamentary term, supplementary assistance is even slightly active. The G52 agenda was adopted as a recommendation. We believe that the G53 agenda is unacceptable, because it provides for a rather strong change in the Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, I would like to stress that the committee which exists in the French National Assembly replaces the work we are doing now, that is, rather than discussing the budget in the plenary - as we are doing now - there is provision for an examination by the restricted group. Beyond the fact that I would not consider it particularly appropriate to make the analysis of the budget less transparent, this would still require a change in the Rules of Procedure. Finally, as far as the G54 agenda is concerned, I would point out that this is a complex issue, on which there are a number of aspects to consider. The constitution in court in attribution conflicts follows procedures which cannot be those of an agenda. Certainly what Senator Buemi has proposed is worthy of great attention, but I call on my colleague to withdraw the agenda so that he can examine the subject in his own place, in cooperation with the House of Deputies, which obviously cannot be ignored. On this subject we can only proceed in parallel. I apologize for the length of my speech, but I have tried to explain the various issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u64	Senator Buemi, do you intend to speak on the G54 agenda, on which an invitation to withdraw was issued?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u65	Mr President, I support the call for the withdrawal of the G54 agenda, but with the assurance that this issue will not be evaded. This is an issue that concerns our future and the credibility of the parliamentary institution, and therefore Chamber and Senate. I realize that this is about the two Assemblies and not just ours. We can do all the rigorous work we want - I shall speak about it in my subsequent explanations of vote - but we cannot escape the general order. Only the parliamentary activity of its own must have its own autonomy from this point of view and the rest must fall within the general order of the State.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u66	In the light of the opinions expressed, the agendas for G16, G17 and G21 are inadmissible, the agenda for G47 is partially inadmissible and the agenda for G53 is unavailable. I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 3.30 p.m. by voting on the agenda. (The sitting was suspended at 2.30 p.m. and resumed at 3.32 p.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u69	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, since the request for a quorum has not been made, I would like to take this opportunity to wish Vice President Fedeli a happy birthday. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u70	The Presidency naturally supports the wishes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u73	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to make a request to Senator Zanda. Compared to Senators Parente and Bonfrisco, who have presented a really good job with regard to parliamentary collaborators, Senator Zanda in his work solves the situation with four or five lines, while that of the two senators seems well done, very articulate and also more valid. I would then ask Senator Zanda to expunge the part in question and to re-evaluate the proposal for the presentation of agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u74	You are addressing Senator Zanda, but the opinions have already been expressed and, therefore, such a procedure cannot be adopted. In any case, Senator Zanda doesn't seem willing to accept your request, Senator Bignami, and so let's move on. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Sangalli, if he agrees with the opinions that have been expressed on the agenda. Mr Sangalli, rapporteur. Yes, Mr President, my opinion is in line with that expressed by Senators Quaestors.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u77	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. Excuse me for your breath, but that's what's coming to the Senate from the House of Deputies where a major hearing is taking place right now, in the Joint Foreign and Defence Commissions, of the Ministers who are making communications. I believe that, in harmonizing the work, your desire to speed up the work cannot overlook the importance of a vote such as today's. I would therefore ask you to suspend work so that all the other Members, who are probably a few years older than me, are still on their way back. It is a matter of life and death, Mr President. I would ask you to suspend work for 15 minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Even?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u80	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, faced with this dilemma, I always choose life between life and death. Indeed, the colleague said something true, namely that an information, provided for by law, was carried out regarding the progress of the missions of peace in Italy. We have already heard the Pinotti and Gentiloni ministers and the senators have been allowed to speak first. If we want to allow five minutes, we can do so, but I do not think we can go any further, partly because the senators who wanted to intervene have already done so, and we are here. For a matter of life or death, five minutes are not denied, but only in view of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u81	I note with pleasure that while Senator Santangelo is breathing, Senator Casini does not. SANTANGELO (M5S). Blue car! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But the use of the car takes more time to get here from the Room than the walking route. I always walk, I know. In the meantime, the five minutes are spending. We await the arrival of some other senator. At first, it was planned that the House's proceedings should be suspended between 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. Having then pointed out Senator Marton that this important hearing would take place, I felt that I would delay the pause for another 30 minutes just to give the opportunity to participate. As this opportunity has been given and a few minutes have passed, I would like to continue with our work, given, among other things, that the House is almost full.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u84	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking in an explanation of vote - and we allow Members a few more minutes - and I will then take the floor on the G14 agenda, which has been voted against. On the other hand, the G1 agenda was presented as an all-inclusive agenda which precludes all subsequent items. In fact, it is a fake agenda that says and does not say. The following agendas contain specific commitments on individual subjects. This is an agenda that uses the usual generic terms: it can serve to give impetus to, to evaluate, to rationalise, to test the potentiality and feasibility of the programme. I mean, it's the usual pretty general phrases. I wanted to make this point, because it has been dealt with as the agenda that resolves all the issues or absorbs them all.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u87	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u88	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Zanda and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the G1 agenda. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The G2 agenda was taken up by the previous vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G3 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u91	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I wanted to ask Senators Quaestors to reconsider their opinion. In fact, with this agenda, we wanted to point out that although rationalization of expenditure and its containment are a good thing, there is a different weight from office to office, as well as from the Commission to the Commission. In particular, in the Budget Committee - but I also imagine in the 1st Commission - we only have a shipment of photocopies and, having to copy all the measures and amendments that the Commissioners have to assess, we cannot have the same amount of expenditure for the photocopies of the other Commissions. I wanted to put the problem that we sometimes come to the Commission and the files have already been completed because some other senator, although he is not a member of the Budget Commission, has come - quite rightly, I say - to take one. And many times we ourselves find ourselves in serious difficulty. [[Applause from Senator Council.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u92	I would ask the Quaestors and the rapporteur whether they intend to revise their opinion on the G3 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u93	Mr President, let us amend the opinion on the G3 agenda in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u94	I give my assent to that of the quaestors senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u97	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u98	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). From now on, therefore, all votes will be by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3, tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u101	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, our fellow senators are still stuck in the RAI Monitoring Committee for the debate and have therefore asked us to interrupt this sitting to allow them to come and vote. [[Protests from the PD Group.]] Mr President, I would ask you to contact the offices of the RAI Supervisory Committee and to have the sitting interrupted so that the senators can come to this House. Either one, or the other, because I can't think that Senator Crosio splits in two, and that half a senator comes to vote and half stays and listens to the debate. Same goes for Senator Airola. If the PD senators do not care because they have plenty of colleagues, we are few and we would like all senators to do either one activity or another. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u102	Senator Centinario, the only way to resolve this issue is to put your request for suspension to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u105	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I do not want to irritate the House, but it is a right of every senator to vote, regardless of the group he belongs to. It's a right. You take responsibility for not having a senator vote. I apologise to my PD colleagues, but it seems to me that the rule that a senator, being a member of the Senate, should be at least ambivalent should be present at the vote and not engaged in another Commission, unless it is said that the RAI Supervisory Committee is not considered to be interesting and not useful. It's a matter of rules, not party membership.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u108	BULGARRELLI (M5S). Mr President, as far as this issue is concerned, I would like to stress once again that the work of this House and its timetable should not affect the work of the Commissions. As some of us are part of the Budget Commission and it is a continuous run for us back and forth, because the calendar of the House is never based on the work that takes place in the Senate but on the needs of the Government I ask you to start organizing the schedule of the Senate's work, perhaps on the basis of parliamentary work and not of the Government, because this would help everyone's work, and also its work. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u111	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would just like to remind my fellow Members of an issue on which I have taken a stand on several occasions: the work of this House is prominent in relation to that of the Commission, so it is the Commission that must adapt to this House, not vice versa. This is also a matter for the House Presidency and the presidencies of the bicameral committees: the Presidents of the bicameral committees must take into account the plenary activity of the two assemblies, whereas at this stage of the Presidency of the bicameral committees by the House this is not the case; the House, probably thinking that constitutional reform is already in force, absolutely does not care about the Senate Assembly activity. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u112	We have warned the House and its Commission of the need for our work in this House to continue and therefore to demean the Commission, which, however, appears to be still under way from the news we have. That was the request from the Senate. We therefore suspend the sitting for five minutes: if nothing new comes forward, we shall resume our work. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 15.46 p.m. and resumed at 15.54 p.m.) The session is resumed. We have had the official communication that the sitting of the Parliamentary Committee for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services has already been removed for a few minutes, so let us continue with our work. Agendas from G4 to G7 are absorbed by the adoption of the G1 agenda. Agendas from G8 to G13 are foreclosed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G14 agenda, presented by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u114	Senator Centinario, there's a vote going on.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u115	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I know, I'm sorry, but there is a senator from the Northern League Group, who is neither Superman nor Flash, another comic book character, who has to arrive from Palazzo San Macuto to here: do we want to give him time to arrive? [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u116	Senator Centinario, I have been told that for a few minutes the session of the RAI Supervisory Committee has been officially removed, we cannot stop the Assembly, there is a vote in progress. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). It's scandalous, President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On the agenda, Mr G15, there is a willingness to accept it as a recommendation. Senator Castaldi, do you insist on your vote?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u117	Mr President, I really do not understand this attitude: it would be to wait two more minutes for the senators who are missing to arrive, no one is coming at this time. I also intervene to take some time, for our Group, for example, Senator Airola is still missing. We're talking about two minutes. It's not obstructionism.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u118	I asked you if you would insist on voting on the G.15 agenda, which would otherwise be accepted as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u121	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, on several of our agendas, we have expressed our willingness to accept them as a recommendation. Since it has not been changed at all in the contents, I would ask you to be kind and kind enough not to change it, since already an agenda is little, the formula with the words "recommendation" but to accept it as an agenda, since we share the contents of the agenda. In the opposite house, we will have to insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Quaestors to make their views known on this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u122	In order to meet the requests contained in the G15 agenda, we have accepted it as a recommendation, in order to allow the Presidency Council to evaluate with the Offices of competence the modalities, forms and significance of a reorganisation according to these modalities in cases of transfer for missions in the various contexts both as regards senators and as regards staff. For this reason, I accepted the agenda as a recommendation, precisely to give the opportunity to influence and work successfully. We therefore support the G15 agenda if it is intended as a recommendation, otherwise the opinion will be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u123	Senator Santangelo, since Senator Questore maintains the opinion already expressed, still insists on the vote?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u124	Mr President, in welcoming with regret what is at this point a purely political position, I say to you that no recommendation will be accepted. In this case, I am sorry that the Quaestors do not consider the agenda and even give a negative opinion. They could go back to this House, because otherwise the fact that they accept it as a recommendation forces us not to accept it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u125	Does the rapporteur comply with the opinion of the Quaestors? Mr Sangalli, rapporteur. Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G15 agenda, presented by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Agendas G16 and G17 are inadmissible. On the agenda, Mr G18, a rewording proposal has been put forward: do you accept it, Senator Moronese?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u126	Mr President, we appreciate the effort and accept the rewording, but we want to reiterate that transparency is either there or there is no transparency: we cannot always do things half-way. Therefore, we would have liked to see full acceptance of the commitment where it also provides for the publication of the amounts relating to the vitalities given to Members of Parliament. However, if this is a first step we must take to offer citizens some transparency on what is happening in the Senate, we accept the reformulation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u129	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, I would like to know why the G10 and G11 agendas have been skipped. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u130	Senator Santangelo is giving her the answer: they have been declared absorbed or inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u131	Cotti (M5S). They cannot be absorbed because they are different from the G1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Maybe you weren't there when it was said. Cotti (M5S). I was on the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u132	I can't help it. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G18 (text 2), tabled by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G19 agenda, presented by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G20 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u135	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to subscribe to this agenda as well as to the others tabled by my group's colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u136	Without objection, the Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G20 agenda, presented by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G21 agenda is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u139	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, given the content of the G21 agenda, which we believe is well founded, I do not understand why it cannot be voted on. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I would understand a negative opinion from the Quaestors, but not even the inadmissibility, with respect to which I would like to have some clarification, also because we are talking about the abolition of the end-of-term cheque. I understand that it affects the interests of many people in this House, but we could vote, even with a negative vote - I repeat - Mr President, but the inadmissibility I cannot quite understand, so I would ask for clarification on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u140	It has been declared inadmissible since Senators Quaestors have spoken...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u141	SANTANGELO (M5S). They didn't declare it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, Senator, they've expressed it. Maybe the discontinuity... Not on this one.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u142	Yeah, these, too. On the agenda, Mr G17, Mr G20 and Mr G21 spoke about the unconstitutionality and the opposition - this is what you used, Senator De Poli, and which was accepted - in relation to the European decisions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u144	No action can be taken on inadmissibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u145	SANTANGELO (M5S). I would like to speak on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I do not want to prolong the debate, but we are talking about the constitutionality of an agenda: I do not see, among the powers of the quaestors, the possibility of speaking on the constitutionality of the agendas. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]] It really seems out of any rational logic. I would ask you to articulate your opinion in this particular case, because we are talking about a subject that probably deserves a little more extensive disquisition. If we are to hurry, Mr President, we will be swifter in the course of the work, but if we ask for clarification, I think we should all be given it. I see you've been handed a note, which I assume is the answer to.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u146	Here are the clarifications. The agenda requires the abolition of the end-of-term allowance and the allocation of contributions already paid to the Senate's internal budget. The opinion is opposed for reasons of legality, since the end-of-term allowance is essentially a forceful saving, since its amount is exactly the same as the contributions that are drawn from parliamentary allowances to the senators. It is, therefore, a form of saving part of the parliamentary allowance, which is then returned in a single solution at the end of the mandate, without any burden on the Senate budget. It is clear, therefore, that the transaction required with the agenda would require the injury of a capital right. From this point of view, it has been called for that is inadmissible, which has been declared by the President, to which the debate and clarification are due, but to which we cannot return. [[Senator Scibona's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u149	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, thank you for your clarification, but there was also an inadmissibility on the G17 agenda. I'm referring to what you said. The G17 agenda calls for the amounts due to be re-determined according to the contribution calculation system. I would ask you to clarify this too, so that it remains in the proceedings and that we also have these ideas for the next few occasions in order to be able to retable agendas and amendments on this subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u150	You will have the clarifications, but let us continue with the order of business. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G22 agenda, presented by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u153	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I have entered the card and I have not been able to vote. Mr President, we will be discussing - after this vote - our delay in this House and its reasons, because there are some news from the RAI Supervisory Commission and the Ministry. I could say it now, but it doesn't seem like the time; we say it later. However, I would ask that my vote be recorded in favour of this agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G23 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u156	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the G23 agenda, which concerns you directly, but in a positive sense, not in a negative way (so you do not see it as a criticism). It is noted, on this agenda, that there have been reductions in the expenditure planned for the Cabinet Offices of the Senate Presidency, also due to its precise choices. However, these reductions are, of course, his choices, but they are not definitive. Given that it is possible to do so, and you have shown, how we show that we reduce our salary by paying it to a fund, that we can reduce the expenses of the Office of the President of the Senate, why not ask Senators Quaestors to assess a reduction in the commitment of expenditure for 2015 too so that it remains a reduction for future Presidents too? In this way, who, less virtuous, one tomorrow should enter his place, would have a roof that would take into account a standard that, through a reduction in expenditure, you identified as possible. I came to you personally just to invite the senators. Quaestors to re-evaluate this invitation and reconsider the opinion so that this reduction can be definitively fixed for the next Presidents of the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u157	Senator Crimes, you've called me into question, but since it's a personal choice, having to affect the personal choices of others who will replace me, I think... I say this because it is a strictly personal choice. However, I respect the views of Senators Quaestors; I think, among other things, that I said what they would say.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u160	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, you will forgive me but I will return to the debate we have just had on your clarification. On the G21 agenda, I would ask you to cancel the vote politely because, as is precisely stated in Report No 317 of 24 September 2014, the G18 agenda with the same content was put to the vote with a negative opinion from the Quaestors. Since this is a mistake by the Presidency in this particular case, I would kindly ask you to cancel the vote and put it back to the vote. I repeat, the reference is the shorthand report No 317 of 24 September 2014. From last year to today, the constitutional part of this agenda has not changed at all.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u161	You spoke of canceling the vote, but the G21 agenda was not voted on. SANTANGELO (M5S). It's been voted! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The G21 agenda was not voted on; it was declared inadmissible. SANTANGELO (M5S). It was voted on last year. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As you know, jurisprudence is constantly evolving. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). What are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So the point concerns the agendas in question, which include among the recipients of the abolition of vital allowances, in addition to the future elected Members of Parliament who are currently in office and those who have already ceased their parliamentary term of office. The abolition of life allowances (now called pensions) with the recalculation of their treatments presents critical aspects from the point of view of constitutional legitimacy precisely because it concerns first of all the former parliamentarians who receive the allowances in question, but also parliamentarians who are in office or who have ceased to be in office, who have in any case fulfilled the contributory requirements for the pension on the basis of the current legislation. This is the point on which we must confront ourselves. It is a critically retroactive issue of the rule in question, therefore, according to the jurisprudence that has now been made absolutely known and reiterated by the Constitutional Court also with recent judgments in the evolution, this principle is now so consolidated that these norms and these judgments, in application of Articles 10 and 117 of the Constitution, require that the legislative activity of the State and the Regions is not in contrast with the other constitutional norms. The European Court of Human Rights has also given its opinion, but I am not extending it any further. I merely say that the principle of legitimate expectation in relation to the protection of the property of citizens, as regards Italy, has also been stated on several occasions by the European Court of Human Rights, which has also brought these principles back to the pension system. In this respect, I could cite a constant and repeated case law, which has been consolidated by a number of constitutional judgments. By these decisions, the ECHR declared the infringement of Article 1 of Additional Protocol No 1 to the European Convention on Human Rights by Italy, since the applicants could, under the unanimous jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation, have a legitimate expectation of obtaining payment of the economic treatment related to the seniority of the various branches of the local authorities. This is the case law. However, the problem concerns the retroactive rule, which betrays the custody of the recipient of the standard.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u164	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, there is a misunderstanding. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Crimes. CRIMI (M5S). Forgive me, Mr President, perhaps we have misspelled ourselves. I believe that he was referring to the G21 agenda, which is about an end-of-term check and not about vitality. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've already pronounced myself on the end-of-term check. CRIMI (M5S). On the agenda there is talk, without any retroactivity, of abolishing the end-of-term allowance, starting from the current legislature, allocating the contributions already earmarked for the senators at the time of entry into the Senate's internal budget. Among other things, last year the content of this agenda has already been voted on: this has already been voted on, Mr President, not the agenda on vitality.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u165	As I said a moment ago, but perhaps I do not have the right to be heard or understood, the end-of-term allowance is a form of saving the parliamentary allowance, which is returned in a single solution at the end of the term of office, without any burden on the budget. There is no burden, because it is held back and returned, even in 80% of the last allowance. CRIMI (M5S). President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I assure you, Senator Crimes, that as far as the G21 agenda is concerned, on the end-of-term check, this is the case. Since there's no interest in the rest, let's move on. CRIMI (M5S). Give me 30 seconds, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. To say what, Senator Crimes?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u166	Mr President, it cannot be said that it is not charged with the Senate budget, because if that money is materially given to the senator, to be taken away and then returned, obviously someone gives them that money.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u167	It is a formal matter, but basically it is a round game, for those who pay those sums and then see them returned. It is a sophistry, which does not change the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u170	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, I have followed your arguments on the G21 agenda very carefully. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Now we're talking about the G23, Senator Nugnes. NUGNES (M5S). I am referring to the speech in which you told us that these were maturations resulting from payments already made, from which we could not go back. As far as the agenda is concerned, however, we are referring precisely to a position that you yourself took, Mr President, on 31 March 2013, when you spontaneously declared to the press the possibility of halving the expenditure of the Senate Presidency. This operation, which has been greatly appreciated by Italians, has not become a structural operation. As you proposed it, we believe that it is absolutely possible and appropriate and therefore, with the agenda under discussion, we urge the Quaestors to make it final. Obviously this is possible, because it has been declared admissible and possible by the President himself. We would therefore like this agenda to be adopted and, therefore, the opinion to be revised to the contrary. By the way, we are considering these spending cuts, while we are deciding in parallel to eliminate the Senate of the Republic. I therefore believe that all these cuts are absolutely appropriate in the context of a vision of savings, where it is the sum that makes the total and, in the context of a revision of these expenses, we could even try to review the constitutional reform that seems so burdensome for the country instead. (Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u171	We'll deal with this later, Senator. I repeat that if this money is saved, then it must be returned and, in any case, calculated, so it is not lost. It is a matter of budget estimates. However, this is a personal choice, I repeat, which I do not think can affect the future of the President. So to have brought me into the picture for this is out of the woods. In this sense, however, if this were to be the will of this House - but I do not want to make any judgements - I could only be happy that someone was able to approve this for the future too. Having said that, I would move on to the vote to see what the House thinks. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G23 agenda, presented by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Agendas from G24 to G27 are absorbed by the adoption of the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u174	MORONESE (M5S). Forgive me, Mr President, but if I remember correctly, the G25 agenda has been declared to be part of the G1 agenda, which I do not agree with, and I would like to make a brief statement on that. On the G1 agenda, Senator Zanda's first signature - the specific reference to point (d) - talks about the type of contract to be concluded with the collaborators, also under the new legislation that entered into force. Our agenda, although we are talking about contracts to employees, does not refer to the type of contract. We are asking for something quite different, so I cannot understand why the G25 agenda has been declared absorbed. What we are asking, in fact, for the protection and guarantee of Members' collaborators, is that the salaries be paid by the Senate, as is the case for the collaborators of the members of the Presidency Council and of the Presidents of the Commission, because in the past many times - but certainly also in this parliamentary term - many Members have done a little 'crest on contracts to collaborators, concluding a contract that provided for the payment of a certain salary and then paying a different amount. [[Senator Albano's comments. Applause from the M5S Group]] What's different is what we'd like to do, making everything public and transparent: if the salaries and contracts to Members' collaborators were managed by the Senate, most likely these craps could never happen again. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u175	Senator Moronese, the opinion on the absorption of the agenda G1 continues to remain. It does not seem to me that your arguments have changed either the rapporteur, the Quaestors or the President's opinion: the G1 agenda is certainly wider than the G25 agenda, which therefore remains absorbed. MORONESE (M5S). It's not wider. It's different, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G28 agenda, presented by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On the G29 agenda, there is a willingness to accept it as a recommendation. I would ask the authors if they insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u176	Mr President, I would like to make a statement to extend what has already been said by Mr Santangelo. We talked about transparency. Parliament makes the transparency laws in public administration: I am referring to Law No 33 of 2013, according to which public administrations must publish all the relationships they have with consultants and contracts on their site, and citizens have the opportunity to access and request that this be done. But then the same Parliament that passed this law tells me that it cannot take action to ensure that the advice given by this Senate is published on the website. It is not enough for me to accept it as a recommendation, because what I am asking for should be obvious and should be done by law, since the law has been passed by us with this Parliament. It applies to other public administrations; but first of all the Senate should set a good example. I therefore ask the Quaestors to reconsider their opinion, given that other agendas on transparency have been accepted or taken into account, and this agenda, which should be taken for granted, is accepted as a recommendation. So I would like and ask for an effort from the quaestors senators to give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u179	MALAN, Senator Commissioner. Mr President, this morning, in explaining why we accepted it as a recommendation, I said that, unlike the House, there are no such stable and continuous advice here in the Senate, which is in the House. That is why this agenda cannot be accepted as a whole, since we do not have a coincidence of figures; that is the reason. The recommendation therefore refers to the second part; what we cannot do is not possible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Moronese, the opinion is opposed if you do not accept acceptance as a recommendation. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] Do you confirm what I said, Senator Malan? MALAN, Senator Commissioner. We support the recommendation, Mr President. On the contrary, we are opposed to the current text, because it is not possible to apply something that is in the House and is not there for us. [[Comments from Senator Moronese.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u180	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u182	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I would first like to ask you to sign this agenda. The explanation that Senator Malan gave, to be honest, is completely irrelevant; the fact that the House is constantly being consulted and here it is not enough. The transparency rule must be the same. On the other hand, if there are no advice entrusted by the Senate, the norm would be tamquam non esset. So why does Senator Malan possibly care to assert a rule if there is no advice that the Senate gives technicians? I therefore do not see why there should be this difference between the Senate and the House, just because, to say the Senator Malan, the House is consulted a lot and the Senate is not. This explanation sounds laughable to me. That is why, by sharing the agenda, I would ask that we be able to sign it, if the Members who have tabled it agree. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Do you accept the signing by Senator Falanga, Senator Moronese? MORONESE (M5S). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u185	MALAN, Senator Commissioner. Mr President, the G29 agenda could be reworded in the light of the fact that there are currently no continuing consultations under Article 15 of Legislative Decree No 33 of 2013. We can therefore accept the agenda in the sense that, if they are stipulated, they will be published on the website.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u186	Senator Moronese, do you accept the reformulation proposed by Senator Malan? MORONESE (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G29 (text 2), tabled by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G30 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u187	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u189	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, we are trying to explain the intent of certain agendas, at least those that come to the vote. The G30 agenda is intended to commit the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors to consider whether... We are not therefore asking you to do so, but at least to sit around a table and consider the opportunity. You may also say that it is not appropriate, so I see no reason why it cannot be approved. It is called upon to consider reducing the contribution to the parliamentary groups by 20% compared to the current forecasts. By now the Groups, more or less, are able to save money, also because they still have to keep a little bit aside because they can always come up with surprises (for example, bear costs of processes or whatever). Therefore, a reduction is already inherent in the expenses of the Groups. Moreover, this agenda is also written in the way that is usually considered acceptable: that is, it is asked to assess the appropriateness. We therefore ask the Quaestors to assess and explain why this reduction may not be possible. Maybe they can find that a reduction of 15, 10 or 5 can be achieved. However, it would be a step forward, since that amount is never changed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u190	I would ask the Quaestors and the rapporteur whether they intend to confirm the opposite opinion? DE POLI, Senator Commissioner. Yes, Mr. President. Mr Sangalli, rapporteur. Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G30 agenda, presented by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Agendas from G31 to G34 are absorbed by the adoption of the G1 agenda. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G35 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u191	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u193	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would also like to call on the Quaestors, because I believe that my illustration of this agenda, which refers to the positions that have been taken in Parliament over the years and which have not been changed, has been unhappinessed. On this agenda, I referred to Legislative Decree No. 165 of 2001 asking for it to be applied in the Senate as well. I certainly do not intend to question what Senator Commissioner Malan said this morning; indeed, here in the Senate some positions are recently appointed. However, the decree provides not only for a maximum time, but also for a minimum period of three years. This would be a guarantee and protection of the specific figures. I would therefore ask you to review the opinion on this agenda, which I called common sense this morning. It is a principle applied in all public administrations and therefore, I do not see why it cannot be applied within the Senate of the Republic.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u194	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u196	DE POLI, Senator Commissioner. I understand the meaning of the clarification made by Senator Santangelo, however, having proceeded to a reorganization of the various sectors - as you well know - and having appointed Directors and Deputy Secretaries General for a very short time, I believe that today our objective is to give the Senate an organization and structure such that it allows to give concrete answers to internal and external needs. I therefore believe that at this moment our negative opinion should be confirmed, but not with reference to the content of Legislative Decree No 165 of 2001 which provides for a rotation of tasks, but because, as we all know, we are going through an important phase of constitutional reform. By establishing something today, while talking about the unique role of Parliament's staff and redefining the organisation and role of the Senate itself, we run the risk of adding a negative factor instead of giving an important boost to the path we are going to take. On the basis, not of the principle, but of the stage at which we are today, we therefore confirm the negative opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u197	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G35 agenda, presented by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G36 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u198	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u199	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u200	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, by asking to add my signature to the agenda for G36, I wanted to bring to the attention of my colleagues the issue of the main apical office of the Offices of this House, that is, the figure of the Secretary General, who today, as is well known, has no term, unlike other apical figures of the public administration in any area, even political. It is thought that the President of the Republic is a post that should last seven years; I use the term "should" because recent experience - ahinoi - has shown that it was possible to overcome that constitutional dictation as well. But if the Governor of the Bank of Italy and also the leaders of the magistrates, in the organizational roles, have time-limits - obviously without having anything personal towards the current Secretary General - would in our opinion be a nice draft of fresh air in this Chamber if we too, as Senate, adopted this principle of rotation and not already of immutability and immobilism of the administrative and bureaucratic summits of the Senate, establishing, as the agenda proposes, a maximum duration of five years of the exercise of the mandate of Secretary General of the Senate, clearly not repeatable to prevent this principle from being bypassed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u201	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G36 agenda, tabled by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On the agenda, Mr G37 there is a willingness to accept it as a recommendation. I ask the first signatory, Senator Comaroli, if you insist on the vote. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). No, Mr President, I do not insist. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G37 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. There is also a willingness on the G38 agenda to accept it as a recommendation. Are the presenters insisting on the vote?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u202	Mr President, this agenda, in fact, is already made as a recommendation because it says in the commitment: 'to consider whether to activate', and the recommendation for a recommendation would have no value. We therefore accept the agenda as it is, otherwise we are going even further to water down an opportunity that we are giving. We do not ask for a commitment on this point, which, among other things, is important, because it would lead to the activation of internship programs within the Services and Offices of the Senate administration to give a real opportunity to new graduates worthy of carrying out a training experience in this institution and, therefore, also have the opportunity to be able to desire, pursue and engage profitably for a career within this institution and in its Offices. I therefore ask the Quaestors to accept this agenda as it is and not as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u203	I invite the Quaestors and the rapporteur to comment on the request made by Senator Montevecchi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u204	Mr President, we are prepared to give a favourable opinion on Senator Montevecchi's agenda on this issue. I recommend - and this is not a recommendation, but a yes - that we consider only one problem, which is that of the costs of organizing the route that will have to be done for the selection programme. In line with the budgetary problems we have, we are therefore in favour of this agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u205	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G38 agenda, presented by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G39 agenda, presented by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G40 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u206	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u208	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I certainly will not have the ability of my colleagues Montevecchi and Moronese to convince Senators Quaestors, who are obviously more sensitive to the feminine charm. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u209	Maybe it was their arguments that convinced them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u210	CRIMI (M5S). I shall therefore confine myself to speaking on this agenda, and then leave it to them to intervene on others, because they are likely to be able to achieve more than can be done with the arguments alone. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u211	But this gender difference is not right.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u212	CRIMI (M5S). That was a joke. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take it as such. CRIMI (M5S). That's the fact of the last few minutes. On this agenda, Mr President, we are asking for the following, and here again it concerns you directly: there is an appropriation - which should be mentioned here - for institutional cultural and social initiatives, amounting to EUR 588,000; there is another chapter of expenditure on cultural foundations, other subjects and third parties, amounting to EUR 195,000. These are all obviously uncontrollable expenditure chapters, for which there is no pre-established criterion, except that of discretion in their bestowal. It is true that in 2014 there was a large reduction and therefore a parsimonious use of only 192,000 euros of the amounts of one chapter and only 108,000 euros of the amount of the other chapter: of course it is a bit ironic to say "soli", compared to the initial allocation, for a total of over 300,000 euros; but an effort has been made, even if it could be a little higher. We do not therefore understand why a reduced budget cannot be envisaged for next year, always with a view that, if there is perhaps a presidency today that has a prudent administration of the funds at its disposal, tomorrow it could be one without the same attention to a more transparent and prudent administration of those funds. Why not, then, provide for a reduction of 50%, which is equivalent to what this Presidency has actually spent? We therefore call on the Quaestors to review their spending commitments for next year and to make them equivalent to what this Presidency has actually spent in the current year, recognising that there has been a 50% reduction in expenditure incurred, which has been limited to only EUR 300,000. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Are the quaestor senators going to confirm their opinion?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u213	Mr President, we have to check: the issue, as has been pointed out, is that much less has been spent than the budget; I could ask for such an addition: It is committed to assessing the reduction of the appropriations under the chapters (which are defined above, but of course the chapters referred to above remain).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u214	Senator Crimes?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u215	Mr President, in the hope that this assessment will take place and that perhaps an answer will also be given (because often when rewording is used with the words: "to assess the opportunity" you all know that no one is ever bothering to evaluate this opportunity), I ask the quaestors senators to make an assessment and perhaps acknowledge it by saying whether it can be done or not. It is a cost saving, so it can be used for other destinations, so for better use.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u216	Senator Crimes, however, the evaluation has already been made, so the fact of having done it means that you are on this line.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u217	CRIMI (M5S). Forgive me, Mr President, I note that the reduction has been made, but this has only been done because of the will of the current Presidency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is therefore appropriate to commit to doing it again, i.e. to considering doing it again. CRIMI (M5S). So it seems to me that we should consider an expenditure commitment which is at least equal to the sum currently spent by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u218	The opinion is therefore in favour of this rewording. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G40 (text 2), tabled by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G41 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u219	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u220	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u221	DE POLI, Senator Commissioner. Mr President, the opinion is in favour of the G41 agenda if reworded as follows: after the words 'things other than events', delete the word'strictly'; after the words 'linked to institutional purposes', add the following 'does not relate to legislative activity', removing the remaining part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u222	Senator Comaroli, do you accept the reformulation? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G41 (text 2), tabled by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G42 agenda, presented by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G43 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u223	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u225	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, the G43 agenda received an opinion against it, but I would like to make a proposal which is far from indecent, but simply of common sense and linked to the two agendas approved by Mr G40, presented by Mr Crimi, and Mr G38, presented by Mr Montevecchi. On the G43 agenda, we call for a 50% reduction in contributions and subsidies to foundations and associations, which amount to EUR 1,294,000. It is true that Senator Commissioner Malan has reported that they have not been budgeted for this year, but there is still the possibility of reaching these figures. Moreover, given that Senator Questore De Poli has accepted as a recommendation the agenda G38, which concerns the training and guidance program, if we reduce the possibility of giving these contributions to foundations by 50%, we also have the resources and therefore eliminate the cost problem highlighted by Senator Questere De Poli regarding trainees. Perhaps it would have been nice to propose a rewording of the G38 agenda to accept it not as a recommendation, but as a commitment by the College of Quaestors.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u226	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u227	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u228	MALAN, Senator Commissioner. Mr President, I would like to point out that with regard to the item summarized on the agenda as the "Circo di Palazzo Madama" (Circo di Palazzo Madama), the full term is "Corporate" for the purchase of the Senate's warehouse and the "Circolo di Palazzo Madama" (Circo di Palazzo Madama). The sums spent in the year that we have closed are zero, but we cannot guarantee that we do not have to pay them in the future, obviously not for the Circle of Palazzo Madama, but for the other item, that is the purchase of the warehouse. Years ago a warehouse was acquired indispensable to the Senate, because among other things it is not worth keeping the big things warehouse and archive here in the city center, where you have to use the spaces in a different way, but in a locality called Trullo. The acquisition was made with an agreement with the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Economics and Finance, if I remember well, which also committed the Senate to pay a contribution and this commitment remains, even if, having renounced the Senate to enlarge its spaces at that locality, for now it has not had to be made. However, the commitment remains and we cannot fail to foresee the relative voice for a commitment already made. I expect that we will be zero again for the current year, but we cannot know that. We have made a commitment - I repeat - with other institutions. Also with regard to the item "Contributions and subsidies on behalf of the Institute" we are back to zero. We will also study the problem further in order to understand the nature of the sums already spent, but since we cannot fail to commit ourselves to other institutions, we cannot accept the agenda as it is, even if we can accept its demands. We are therefore unable to give an opinion in favour of this agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Moronese, Senator Malan was very clear. Do you take note of your opinion and withdraw the agenda or insist on the vote?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u229	No, Mr. President. I have understood the reasons outlined by Senator Questore, but we did not ask for the elimination of that item of expenditure, if anything a reformulation with a reduction, if not of 50%, of at least 20 or 30 - the quaestor senators establish it - also to give a signal.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u230	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G43 agenda, tabled by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G44 agenda, presented by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u231	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u232	I shall cancel the vote. Please, Senator Petrocelli, speak briefly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u233	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr. President, am I the black sheep of the Senate? PRESIDENT. - The debate is You are not the black sheep, but I had opened the vote and no one has indicated to me your request for intervention. PETROCELLI (M5S). In fact, there was also Senator Nugnes asking to intervene. I would like to ask the Quaestors, as regards the agenda for G44, whether there was at least the possibility of reaching this year, if not full publicity, at least of the summary reports of the work of both the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors, as is the case, for example, for the work of the Joint Commissions, could already be a step forward which would also lead the activities of these so important bodies of the Senate towards complete transparency. If the quaestors were to accept this, I could reformulate that agenda. The request went only in the sense of arriving step by step at what we would like.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u234	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u235	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u236	BOTTICS, Senator Commissioner. Mr President, the opinion on the G44 agenda remains opposed, but there is a commitment on the part of the quaestors senators to provide for a system to make available to senators at least the deliberations of the Presidency Council and the College of quaestors on the functionality of the palaces, i.e. those deliberations that allow us to carry out our work fully.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u237	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G44 agenda, presented by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G45 agenda, presented by Senator Comaroli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). On the agenda, Mr G46, there is a willingness to accept it as a recommendation. Are the presenters insisting on the vote?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u238	Mr President, this agenda calls for a commitment that citizens can follow the work of this Senate through the preparation of a special section of our website dedicated to internal budget agendas that have been accepted. The G46 agenda, which would be accepted as a recommendation, would not serve only citizens. For example, if there had been this dedicated section on the website, it would have been useful when Mr Santangelo brought to your memory an agenda for last year's internal budget, which was voted on and approved by us and not by you. Through this web page - which we propose - we could have checked it out immediately; therefore, it would be useful not only to the citizens but to facilitate the work of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u239	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u240	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u241	BOTTICS, Senator Commissioner. Mr President, as I explained earlier, the commitment of the College of Quaestors is to make all these steps feasible, and that is why we have proposed that the agenda be accepted as a recommendation, to link us to the previous one and to develop a page of our internal site available to senators at least.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u242	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u243	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u244	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, there remains regret, even with Senator Commissioner Bottici, about this decision. We are all agreed on the usefulness of this proposal, but there is no wish, with a hint of common sense, to fully accept the agenda. Eventually we are also available to review the formula of the device by making it more subtle, as it is to evaluate the opportunity of the device. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, this House cannot become a place of continuous bargaining, excuse me. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, this is Parliament. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The reasons have been given. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I am not asking you; it is not in your power to change the opinion, but in the faculty of the quaestors senators. [[Comments of Senator Airola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u245	The Senator Questore replied: evidently the opposite opinion remains.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u246	[[Comments from Senator Moronese.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, this is not the way you say it; they are asking you to speak. Forgive me, but I'm not. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u247	Tell me if we want to reverse the roles.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u248	SANTANGELO (M5S). In the future, we're thinking about it. Right now you're the president and I'm the senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u249	You are a senator, then, and I tell you that Senator Commissioner Bottici has just told you that the agenda is adopted as a recommendation, otherwise the opinion is against it. That's what I'm saying. We shall now proceed to the vote. [[Senator Santangelo points out that he wants to intervene.]] Didn't I make myself clear then? Do you accept acceptance as a recommendation? This is the intent of Senators Quaestors.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u250	Mr President, I am probably an atypical Sicilian: I need to speak and speak a lot in this House. Despite the rigidity of the quaestors senators, we accept acceptance as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u251	As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G46 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G47 agenda, which has been declared partially inadmissible with regard to the reference to the Parliamentary Junta.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u252	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u253	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u254	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask the Councils to accept this request according to the budget of the Commissions, i.e. all the instruments which can be used from the outside, via web TV, all the sessions, where possible, and also to change the Rules of Procedure of the Senate where it requires that only certain meetings of the Commissions be public. In our view, everything must be accessible to the public, particularly the hearings, unless they are secreted (and there is much to say about that too). I would remind the House, for example, that if certain parliamentary hearings had been made public in 1997 they would have made it clear to many - and not just to the barracks and bells - that perhaps there was an emergency to be faced against which the political class of that time (and, I think, the then Minister of the Interior, that I will not appoint but that he later became President of the Republic) has some responsibility. If we wanted to go in the direction of transparency and knowledge, we would do all Italians a favor. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u255	Invitation to Senators The Commission will be able to give its views on the comments it has just made.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u256	Mr President, despite the unacceptable part, I can anticipate that we have raced for the web TV, which certainly provides for an enhancement of the media. However, we cannot guarantee that all the Commissions, perhaps at the same time, can disseminate what is happening within them. This is true and there is one reason: it is, in fact, extremely unlikely - it has never happened, not even remotely - that indeed all the Commissions are gathered in one of those stages in which the direct TV is possible. In fact, the reference and consultative offices are not public (the Rules say, but in the future they will always be able to change). Therefore, we cannot guarantee that this can happen, because the day when a President of the Commission wanted to pass on a certain stage of the Commission's work while there are already seven channels we would not be able to secure the eighth. We therefore need a modification of the device that removes the part concerning the Juntas and, instead of planning to do all the Aules, we could write: "Increase the number of Aules where meetings of Parliamentary Commissions are held in which there is the instrument suitable to broadcast live streaming on the web TV, according to the Rules of Procedure." With regard to the next paragraph, we could write: "enable the web tv," so as to increase the channels dedicated to the Commissions. That's true, but we can't guarantee we have everything.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u257	Excuse me, Senator Malan, since the body of the premise also refers to "each Junta", it is necessary to propose also the elimination of this part, otherwise there would be a contradiction. This part has been declared inadmissible. In conclusion, is there a proposal for a rewording? Please specify it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u258	Mr President, the rewording of the device could be as follows: to increase the number of classrooms, where meetings of Commissions are held, equipped with the appropriate instrumentation to broadcast live streaming on the web TV, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In the second paragraph: to empower the web TV, increasing the number of channels dedicated to the Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u259	In part of the premises, the expression "and each Junta" must then be deleted, because it is inadmissible, as is currently regulated the publicity of the Parliamentary Junta. Senator Morra, do you accept the reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u260	Mr President, the remarks made by Mr Malan seem to me to be rational, even though they are bound by a regulation which does not yet protect the accessibility which, in our view, from the point of view of direct democracy, must be allowed to everyone, with reference to the stages of debate and to the stages of discussion and discussion, including texts and audits, which are, in our opinion, fundamental in a democracy of knowledge. Therefore, precisely in the spirit of collaboration that the Movement wants to demonstrate, also and especially when the caste must be forced to renounce its privileges, although we are not assured the full coverage of all the classrooms, I am of the opinion that this proposal for reformulation goes in the right direction, so I accept it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u261	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G47 (text 2), tabled by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G48 agenda, tabled by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G49 agenda, tabled by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G50 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u262	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u263	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u264	MARTELLI (M5S). I ask the Quaestors if they can't reconsider their assessment and I'll explain why. First of all, the agenda shall undertake to assess the appropriateness of the agenda. On the agenda we are asked to consider the possibility of replacing the fossil fuel fleet with an electric drive car fleet, but it is not written to do so now. It is not even asked to do so in 2015 or to take a car that has a month of life, to give it away and to take an electric one, but only to assess the opportunity. What we are asking is that the College of Quaestors assess, in the course of the life of the vehicles of the fleet, taking into account the fact that there are management savings and in view of the replacement as these cars become obsolete, to replace them with electric traction cars. This is also the case where a vehicle fails and the replacement of parts is too expensive: at that point, between buying a new vehicle of the same type and an electric drive, the second solution could be considered. This is the meaning of the words "value the opportunity": plan a path to get to have a car park that is totally electric drive, and that is why I ask you to accept it in the formulation that I have illustrated you, which is intentionally not tightening. PRESIDENT. - The debate is However, the dictionary of the device undertakes to replace the entire park. By the way, as you know, some replacements have already been there. MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I have said something else that Senators Quaestors have taken.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u265	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u266	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u267	MALAN, Senator Commissioner. Senator Martelli points out that it is only a matter of assessing the opportunity, but we know that this is not possible in the foreseeable future. We could then give a favourable opinion if, instead of replacing the entire park, we were talking about increasing the number of electric vehicles within the fleet: thus replacing, not increasing. MARTELLI (M5S). Provide for a gradual replacement plan. I never said increase. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I wish the rewording was clear. MARTELLI (M5S). In fact, I'd like that, too. I never said anything about increasing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malan's proposal is to increase. MARTELLI (M5S). No, it is to proceed with the replacement. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We must clarify what will be put to the vote. MARTELLI (M5S). Senator Malan, could you please repeat your proposal for reformulation? Because it is not clear; at least, it is not clear to me. MALAN, Senator Commissioner. We could reword in the sense of committing to increasing the proportion of electric vehicles within the auto park. This is in order to prevent it from appearing - I understand that you, Senator Martelli, were concerned about this - that the agenda is asking to increase the number of service cars in general: we all agree that we do not want to do this. I repeat: increase the proportion of electric vehicles in the car fleet. MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I accept the rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u268	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G50 (text 2), tabled by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G51 agenda, tabled by Senator Castaldi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the G52 agenda, which Senators Quaestors have proposed to accept as a recommendation. I would ask the presenter, Senator Comaroli, if she insists on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u269	No, Mr President, but I would like to make a point. Apart from the fact that in the agenda, the expression is used: "to evaluate the opportunity of" I want to point out that, in my view, to approve the accounts and, above all, the budget of the Senate now - we are at the end of July - is a little late, since many times by law we impose ourselves on companies to approve the budget first. This agenda was an attempt to raise awareness that we were the first to set a good example.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u270	As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G52 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. The G53 agenda is unlikely, while the G54 agenda has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u271	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u272	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u273	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, apart from the regret for accepting the last agenda as a recommendation to my first signature, but it does nothing, I would nevertheless like to note the positive figure of the cuts in expenditure. This is important even though, in my view, much can still be done, especially because, as I said a moment ago on the G52 agenda, it is up to us to set a good example of cuts in expenditure and so on. In particular, I would like to mention one of our agendas, which does not want to be populist at all, in which it was intended to equate the former Presidents of the Senate with any other senator who had ceased his mandate. This would not have upset anything else because the senators who ceased their term of office already have some benefits: it was simply this. What is perplexing - and I quote you again, Mr President - is the fact that the deadline for amendments and agendas for the evening itself was set at 8 p.m. on the budget of the Senate, which was decided at a conference of group leaders at 1 p.m. I understand that the budget may appear to many to be boring, but that is not the case at all. In fact, even if some groups - I am referring to those to whom the quaestors belong - have the possibility to do all the in-depth analysis of the case, the other senators do not have this same faculty. From this point of view we would need a greater openness and sharing of this moment: this is the reason why we have insisted very much on transparency. I do not want to go any further, but I ask the Quaestors who give us the opportunity to share more information: it is not a matter of curiosity, but of arriving at the time of the vote - because then we are called to vote on both the statement and the budget - being able to express a correct assessment and to make all the approfondimenti of the case. For these reasons we will abstain. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u274	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u275	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u276	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, when I voted in favour, I would like to reclaim the methodology that is often used, which is to draw attention to and declare the willingness to trade, of course legitimate, and also to accredit an attitude of confidence with regard to the future. However, I think it is right to make some demands and therefore, while appreciating the efforts to reduce the budget, which are evident in the numbers that have been highlighted, I want to stress the need to recover further rigour in the spending mechanisms. Alongside this, there is a need to restore efficiency to the system: I believe that a parliamentary institution like the Senate cannot afford to have very low levels of maintenance, such as those that can register during these hours, simply by visiting the toilets of the House, which lack essential tools for their normal agibility. These are cheap instruments and I do not know whether this is evidence of carelessness or a situation that is absolutely lacking in the management of the financial resources available for the performance of maintenance functions: I am referring - excuse me, colleagues - to the lack of some toilet tablets. I must add a few other points: yesterday, in the dining room, a panel fell. Fortunately we cannot recall the tragedies that have occurred in some Italian school, but also the panels that fall denote an absence of maintenance or carelessness, while I believe that the appropriations relating to the maintenance and payment of the supplies of these services, carried out to external subjects, are of importance. Therefore, Mr President and fellow Senators, I call on you to be rigorous in spending and to revise contracts for the supply of goods and services, which, as has been the case for all other Italian public administrations, is being put under pressure by those responsible for them. I am a witness to almost everyday contact with public authorities, who call for a greater reduction in costs and a reduction in prices, while maintaining the same level of quality in the provision of goods and services. As far as staff are concerned, Mr President, I have put the question of self-declaration, not because it has a vexatory attitude towards staff itself, but because, when we have to implement a more rigorous and effective management of resources, we cannot ignore a more rigorous management of the elements relating to staff, subjecting the evaluation of any disputes, so that it falls within the general problem of public administration. So we cannot continue as before and so I put the matter through the G54 agenda, on which the senators In addition to the prerogatives and autonomy in legislative activity, quaestors have expressed their views, which must of course be maintained for the two chambers. I should like to conclude with one final remark, Mr President: at the moment, as far as the supply of goods and services is concerned, we are in a system of full autonomy with regard to the procurement code, which we are also discussing in Parliament. I do not believe that the autonomy and extraneousness of the general legislation on the supply of goods, tangible or intangible, can therefore remain. So, at least from this point of view, this blessed self-declaration must be surpassed. I do not understand why all public administrations should apply the procurement code that we are going to approve, and instead for the House, Senate, Constitutional Court and Presidency of the Republic this code should not apply. From this point of view, I therefore call for greater system coherence in the public system, which cannot have grey areas or areas of less tolerance than a rigour of transparency and merit assessment that must of course be guaranteed to all administrations and all parties. I conclude with this wish, Mr President, by confirming the vote in favour. [[Applause from Senator Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u277	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u278	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u279	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I begin by thanking the offices and Quaestors for their work on the Senate budget, which - as they told us in their report - is essentially in line with what was approved in 2014, because it continues to pay particular attention to the reduction in expenditure, which this year is even lower than last year's forecast budget. This is therefore an important result, which brings together more elements, which in fact constitute some sort of compensation. Of course, we hope that this attention to the containment and rationalization of expenditure will continue in the coming years. However, we cannot fail to consider that an important element in containing the expenditure of this last year was certainly represented by Resolution No. 47 of 2014, which last year saw us discussing a lot and which introduced the pay limits to the salary treatments of the staff. I want to stress this, because this is a fundamental point, which is often not mentioned. With regard to operating costs in the strict sense, here too we find a further reduction in ceremonial and representation costs (I say this also compared to the discussion we had before), as well as a decrease in institutional communication, rentals and utilities and insurance services. The Italian Presidency of the European Union has brought a new total cost to the Senate budget of € 308,000. Of course we must say that, against this cost borne by the Senate, unfortunately we have not recorded an external political projection, starting from the role that our President-in-Office played in the Presidency, during which in fact no one noticed the role of Italy in Europe (but we have also seen this with other acts). In order to change towards Europe - as we said just yesterday in our debate - we had to wait for the victory of Tsipras in Greece. The analysis of the budget for 2015 is essentially a result of the final balance sheet. A reduction in operating expenditure is expected for next year compared to 2014. The salary ceiling for employees in service will lead to a total savings of around €37 million, as well as the total salary burden of staff decreased by €25.6 million compared to the previous year. I would like to emphasise one aspect, which I have already mentioned. In the representation that is done very often through the press and also in the controversy that we sometimes bring out ourselves, the workers and employees of the Senate are represented themselves as a caste attached to privileges. I would like to point out that the reduction in the running costs of the Senate is also due to the decrease in the number of employees in the Senate by blocking turnover, to the decrease of 20% in wages for new recruits, to the blocking of the automatic adjustment of wages for those who already work and to the reduction of working allowances. All these are important measures, which have led to a radical reduction in expenditure. Of course, we hope that the work of integrating the activities between the House and the Senate will continue, not only on the harmonization and organisation of important functions, but also on the whole issue of the unique role of staff. I think we are expecting a particularly delicate phase. All safeguards must be put in place for all the workers of the Senate, whether permanent, fixed-term or parliamentary, starting with the staff of the Groups and especially those affected by the 1993 resolution. We will also have to do, as has been said in the debate on the agenda, work to clarify the actual application of the laws in force with regard to the contracts of parliamentary collaborators, because this is an issue we are debating every year: it is not only a problem of transparency, but of protection and rights of workers who, among other things, carry out an important task in support of our work. There was a discussion about the vitalities and benefits of senators. We never do this, but looking at the past we should remember that since 2013 there has been a contributory system (I remember it for future memory). We hope that the College of Senators Quaestors and the Bureau will be able to deal with everything at the right time with a serious debate on the issue of the vitality that has been paid, which is a particularly heavy cost in our budget. In short, to deal with a serious debate in the right places and not just to do it hastily when we examine the budget, because it is a serious issue that must be compatible with the laws in force and, above all, it must protect the rights of all. It is not always necessary to chase the ads of the moment or demagogic expressions. I begin to conclude by pointing out that from the budget numbers, which we read very clearly, we find denied one of the reasons that the Government makes in order to encourage to proceed to constitutional reform and the elimination of the elected Senate directly and that is the reduction of costs. As the numbers in the budget tell us, this saving will not be huge. We should all then make a real operation because we are talking about an estimated saving of around 10% of the total budget of the Senate; a figure certainly important, but that does not involve the zeroing of the costs of the Senate which, of course, in its administrative and functional structure will remain so. Of course, we should also say that we are thinking of uploading this 10% savings from the Senate budget on the regional budgets because, as we know, the costs of regional senators will not be cancelled, but will be borne by the regional budgets. This country will only be credible if it is able to start again from the data, from the raw reality of numbers and, perhaps, once and for all if it is able to abandon to its own destiny the affabulators. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u280	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u281	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u282	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CRI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the vote of the Conservative, Italian Reformists Group on the accounts of the Senate's revenue and on the internal budget will be favourable. It is for a series of reasons that I would like to briefly explain starting from a thank you which I think is right to address to the College of Senators Quaestors for the work that has been carried out outside this Chamber with great tenacity and commitment over the years that we have left behind in which the tension that has occurred in the previous debates on the same topic has been received as a stimulus to find the best balance between the need for a severe action of spending review that would reconcile the effectiveness and efficiency of services with a good governance of spending while maintaining even higher the level of transparency of the accounts that have been offered to the evaluation of this Assembly today, but tomorrow of the whole community. Then there are also three other reasons. The first is that, not only the incontrovertible result of the forecast budget for 2015 presents a tangible pursuit of the objectives of containment of the expenditure, but it has also taken on in concrete terms and with a declining commitment, even in its initial phases, in a documented way, the way to intervene on additional chapters that lead to a further reduction of the expenditure. I am referring in particular to the fact that I have taken the road to continuing the functional integration of the homogeneous sectors of the parliamentary administrations, in agreement with the House of Members, in this clearly aiming to arrive, even in reasonably limited times, at that so-called parliamentary pole which has the function of creating synergies which then determine, as a spill-over effect, the positive response in economic terms, with further improvements in performance. The other aspect that I consider to be particularly important is that not only transparency, but also the way in which competitions are carried out, which is aimed at another objective, that of the single central purchasing body, which seems to me also to be in tune with and in line with what has been partly debated in this House already at the time of examining the legislative measures relating to this subject. As I conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I note that we have maintained a good quality of the work we have done today. Of this, Mr President, I would also like to acknowledge you, for your patient testimony, on some very valuable occasions. She tried to keep the demands together, until she reached a high point of mediation and balance that led the quaestors senators to express favourable opinions on a large part of the agenda and showed a considerable willingness of the college. This willingness also goes in the direction that we all want, that of reconciling the containment of expenditure with the quality of services, aiming at increasing transparency, not only in accounting but also in the advertising of acts and parliamentary activity. With these assumptions, today we have written a good page of politics and good administration, which allows me to conclude, as I had anticipated, with the vote, that I declare favorable, by the Italian Conservators, Reformists. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u283	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u284	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u285	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like every year, we find ourselves approving the financial statements for the past year and the draft budget for the current year. But it is merely a ratification, as all expenditure is established by the College of Quaestors in agreement with the Presidency Council. The Assembly can only make suggestions, through the agendas, which can be accepted or not. This year, too, we can see a shy reduction in total expenditure, and we thank you for that, as citizens. We wonder, then, why Renzi wants to annihilate the Senate with the excuse of saving: perhaps he realized that in reality, despite the savings, the actual expenditure is not the one that is evident from the balance of the exits, that is 501 million euros, which must be added another 20,3 million, that, with an accounting trick, instead are inserted in the round matches (precisely, so that it remains in the records, of chapter 3.8.2, called "Processes for the exercise of previous years destined to the Social Security Funds"). Article 9, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Administration and Accounting of the Senate of the Republic states that the amount of the initial cash fund shall be entered as the first post in the revenue in accordance with Article 29 (5) and (6). What do these two paragraphs establish? Paragraph 5 states: The balance sheet, established with the approval of the statement of revenue, shall be entered among the revenue items of the budget for the financial year immediately following that to which the statement relates, without prejudice to the possibility of the Presidency Council to distribute the surplus between several financial years. Have you ever wondered whether it is permissible not to comply with this Rules of Procedure, approved by the Presidency Council, which is already much more flexible in itself than the general accounting rules? Small entrepreneurs, for example, stifled by bureaucracy, are all too often induced to give up their business, while with your laws reserved favorable treatment to large companies, especially when it comes to friends who fund election campaigns. What example do you give to citizens, forced to comply with a thousand obligations? Would you act in the same way if the financial statements were audited by the Court of Auditors? Given that you are trying to avoid the compliance of your parties' expenses by the appropriate Commission, we certainly do not believe so. You're definitely afraid of getting caught with your hands in jam. Even the 2014 budget could have had a lower impact on that of the State, if you had accepted some of our agendas presented already last year, but unfortunately nothing. This year we tried again, but once again you were deaf. One of the missions of the 5 Star Movement is to eliminate and eradicate the privileges of the caste, which however is punctually saved, as it did today. No difference between right, left, center, left center, right center: you all want to continue to eat, as you have always done since the beginning of republican history. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Speak for yourself! [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Shut up! CASTALDI (M5S). Yes: these, ladies and gentlemen, are not words, but deeds, with names and surnames: and now I show them to you, Senator Buemi. [[Senator Buemi's protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u286	Senator Buemi, let's not interrupt.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u287	[[Senator Buemi's comments.]] AIROLA (M5S). Shame on you, Buemi, shut up, get out of here! Mr President, make him shut up, this individual: he has to shut up, he has no right to speak. Do you understand? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, let your colleague Castaldi speak. SANTANGELO (M5S). Look what comes out of your mouth, Buemi, you're rude! [[Senator Buemi's comments.]] President, insult us!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u288	Senator Buemi, I'll call you back to order. (Exchange of jokes between Senators Buemi and Airola). I've already called Senator Buemi. I'll call you again, Senator Airola. CASTALDI (M5S). I tell my colleagues to stay calm: someone feels touched, so it's right that he reacts like that. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Buemi's comments.]] AIROLA (M5S). President. - I call Senator Buemi for the second time, since he speaks: he cannot insist. CASTALDI (M5S). The 5 Star Movement called for suppression... [[Senator Buemi's protests.]] Senator Buemi, I'll call you back to order for the second time. Senator Castaldi, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u289	Mr. President, I wanted to argue. The 5 Star Movement called for the full abolition of the vitalities of the parliamentarians; also Renzi in the talk shows said in agreement and what did you vote for? You voted no, hiding behind the scandalous inadmissibility of our agenda. The 5 Star Movement has called for the real cessation of the vitality of all those convicted of corruption, concussion and mafia crimes and not just those four losers. What did you vote for? No. The 5 Star Movement has asked in the alternative for a small contribution of solidarity for the vitalities of the parliamentarians in existence of 10% for those up to 90,000 euros and 20% for the part exceeding 90,000 euros. Guess what you voted for. VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. No. CASTALDI (M5S). The 5 Star Movement asked for the abolition of the end-of-term check and look at what you voted for in this case? VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. No. CASTALDI (M5S). The Star Movement asked for a reduction in senators' salaries and what did you vote for? VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. No. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Choirs are not allowed. [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] I would point out to those present and especially to the citizens that we parliamentarians of the Movement, voluntarily implementing these proposals, in two years we have managed to return 14 million euros to the State budget [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] and the most important thing is that, through the microcredit fund, they have returned to the availability of citizens. Mr Manconi (PD). What about the rest? CASTALDI (M5S). The 5 Star Movement has requested the abolition of any charge. I do not ask you to guess what you voted for, because this time too you voted no. The 5 Star Movement has requested the timely and precise reporting of the parliamentary diary. What did you vote for this time? No. With the approval of these agendas, the Senate and especially Italian citizens would have saved (tell Renzi, when you see it) 100 million euros a year, or about 200 billion lire, but you said no. Therefore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate's internal budget with the rejection or almost every agenda of the 5 Star Movement, and the shameful and infamous vote this morning are all children of the same mother, the one who wants to save the caste, feed it with useless privileges, place it outside equality with the other citizens who are out of here, while most of them begin to suffer hunger. I conclude with one word, because after a day like today you can do: Shame on you. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Buemi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u290	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u291	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u292	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I apologize, but I was still a little puzzled. I'm just gonna make a few remarks. First of all, I would like to thank the Quaestor Senators for their accuracy in the exhibition and also for all the insights they have provided. Of course, in the debate, this House has had the opportunity to clarify any doubts and to make those suggestions that I believe are also important to the quaestor senators to continue in what is a positive trend. I looked at the table on page 55 of the draft budget and I believe that it shows well how all this work is based on a true self-esteem; therefore, the reduction in costs does nothing but give credit to them, but I also believe in the whole Senate that supports them in this right direction. This is an era in which tweets are the best way to express your feelings and I believe that, if I had to tweet about this debate, I would say that reducing costs and optimizing services is the slogan with which you have guided us during these hours during which we talked about this important act of the Senate. With a thank you to the College of Quaestors, I therefore vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u293	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u294	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u295	DEL BARBA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Senators and Senators, the 2014 budget and the 2015 budget show the admirable path of rationalization and containment of the Senate's expenditure, which continues in line with the forecasts made in recent years, as practically all the previous speeches have pointed out. Following a rigorous and virtuous path of rationalization and containment of expenditure, to which all interested parties contributed and which covered all the chapters and items of expenditure of the Senate's internal budget, the objectives planned in recent years can be considered substantially achieved. It should be pointed out that in this operation of overall reduction of Senate spending a significant contribution was made both on the operating side and on the expenditure side for senators. The financial statements for the year 2014 and the budget for the year 2015 give numerical evidence to this path, thus confirming a permanent reduction of internal expenditure also for the years to come. At this point, Mr President, if you agree, instead of reading analytically all the figures that demonstrate what I have just indicated, I would proceed, at least for some of the excerpts of my speech, leaving the analytical statements in the minutes and making individual summaries. Following the example of Senator Mandelli, who has called into question Twitter, I would like in these cases to call into question the smileys, the ones that are used for the synthetic indicators. As for the numbers, I would definitely use a green and smiling face that expresses the satisfaction of this Senate for the cutting work that bears witness to the figures. We add that it was in our expectations that the most prestigious institution of the Republic, which bears in itself the main excellences, could achieve these results. But as it is easy in these cases to always ask to do more and do better, we confirm for next year's budget the request, as it is indicated, to continue along this virtuous path. Also in this case, I would disregard the figures of the forecast balance to use an orange face, this time, which wants to express or indicate a problem: the individual annual budgets do not allow us to make in-depth analysis of trends on some themes, but highlight in the figures some critical issues. I want to refer in particular to the weight that is currently reserved for the treatment of staff in quiescence. By sharing what the President of the Budget Committee said at the outset, and therefore the absolute need to carry out this matter in complete autonomy, it should be pointed out that, although the individual annual budget shows the clear sustainability of this effort, it would perhaps be time, even in view of the reforms that await us, to take some consideration of the projection for the years to come. I would use another green face with regard to the process of merging services with the Chamber of Deputies, but it is worthwhile accompanying a recommendation for speeding up this path, with particular reference to the unique role of employees and in general to achieving what is called the parliamentary pole. It is an objective which we believe deserves a confirmation of the attention so far reserved and certainly a decisive acceleration towards its resolution. As regards the reference to the complex of treatment for senators, it was also recalled by other colleagues that in particular the accessory part can be reviewed in a logic of complete alignment with the treatment in place at the European level. It should be borne in mind, for example, that in many foreign parliamentarians there is a greater allocation of services rather than financial provision. Here too, we are careful not to indulge too easily in demagogy; it is certainly not expected that savings can be made from this type of approach, but perhaps a different attitude in relation to the provision of services and the transparency of services. However, it should be pointed out that the transition to such a mechanism would necessarily entail organisational costs which should be carefully assessed. Since we are on a subject which concerns the senators and the costs of the senators, I would like to refer to the subject, which has been properly taken up by many of my colleagues, of parliamentary collaborators. Of course, the Democratic Party is particularly concerned about this issue, as we believe the other political forces in Parliament are also concerned. Above all, it is our concern to be treated without demagogy, with great freedom, emphasizing the progress that has been made. I agree with what my colleague, Senator Parente, said, to the point that I would like to highlight this more, the G1 agenda is taking this issue seriously, bringing important innovations. If this is the legislature in which the obligation to deposit contracts for this type of relationship has taken place, with this agenda, with this commitment of this House one step forward, perhaps two, with regard to an aspect that should all agree, namely the verification that the current contracts conform to the legislative innovations that we ourselves have operated, namely in particular to the jobs act. It would indeed be embarrassing and certainly unacceptable if we first did not comply immediately with the legislation that we have foreseen for the country. This verification wants to be effective and not simply a general indication. In fact, it provides for the possibility of certifying these reports; the possibility for senators to activate conventions with experts in the sector and, in order to provide possible indications for the future, the assessment of aggregate data relating to the different types of relationships still in existence. It seems to me that this is a matter of concreteness and seriousness which deserves to be stressed. I have made extensive excerpts along the lines of the speech, which I would nevertheless like to make in its entirety. I am certainly in line with the wide-ranging positive views of the College of Senators, which this House has wished to express. To them, also on the thrust of the determinations that the Assembly of the Senate will assume, it will be up to them to formulate the proposals that illustrate the path and the initiatives in order to continue in the containment of the expenses and for the overall reorganization of the Senate of the Republic. With this, of course, I declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u296	The Presidency authorizes you to attach the full text of your speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. Before proceeding to the vote, I feel the need to thank Senators Quaestors, both as a College and individually and personally, the President of the Budget Commission and the Secretary-General, inviting her to express my praise to all the Administration for the results achieved, in the spirit of eliminating waste to the maximum, to rationalise and optimize the services in a path, yet to be completed, towards transparency. We shall proceed to the vote on document VIII, point 5. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Senate's statement of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2014 (Doc. VIII, No 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall proceed to the vote on document VIII, point 6. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Senate's draft internal budget for the financial year 2015 (Doc. VIII, No 6). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u297	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1880, 746, 760, 1570, 1795, 1815, 1823, 1841 and 1855.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u298	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u299	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u300	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, on this measure, I would like to draw the attention of the House to what happened this afternoon, at 2 p.m., in the RAI Supervisory Committee, convened for the hearing of President Tarantola. During the hearing, a busy motorcyclist arrived, who brought a letter from Minister Padoan, who informed President Fico and the members of the Commission that the Board of Directors of RAI had expired. At first I took it as a joke: after two months and four days the Minister remembered to inform the Supervisory Committee that the Board of Directors had expired. But the Minister also asked President Fico to convene the Supervisory Committee as soon as possible to follow up the appointment of the seven members of the Commission. So, Mr President, with great tranquillity and a cooperative spirit, I say that this note has left us very perplexed, in substance but also in the method. First of all, as I said, it is quite disconcerting to see that the Minister, in the middle of the debate in a branch of Parliament on the reform of the RAI, sends this letter, which - for heaven's sake - is understandable from the procedural point of view, but from the point of view of relations perhaps leaves us somewhat perplexed. If he had waited at least Friday evening or the end of the work of this branch of Parliament and the final vote on the reform of RAI, it would certainly have been something more appreciated by the oppositions. I say this to you, Mr President, because this week's opposition had accepted the Government's invitation to cooperate and to be more pragmatic with regard to the amendments we had tabled. I am speaking on behalf of my Group: we had tabled 800 amendments; this week we have withdrawn 600 amendments and left 200, which I think, as far as such an important reform is concerned, are the minimum trade union. Mr President, let us understand one thing: at this time, the thinking of the confused government, the indispensable right of the RAI Supervisory Committee to play its role or the thought and work of Parliament, is prevailing on the reform of the RAI? This is a very serious situation for us, Mr President. Honestly, we would like to understand, in the government's confused mind, exactly what he wants to do. It seems, in fact, that they want to ask us to renew - I do not think tomorrow morning, because perhaps it would be even a crazy thing, but at the beginning of next week - the RAI Board of Directors as regards the appointment of the Supervisory Board. RAI. I'm just making one simple argument: the Northern League Group hasn't made names or surnames for a simple reason. First of all, we are not interested in it, and we are probably very little in it, and then because, Mr President, we have a deep respect for the work of this Parliament, while the Government has absolutely no respect for it. Therefore, as far as we are concerned, we want, through you, to inform our colleagues, but also to intercede with the Government so that the work that we are preparing to do with seriousness and criterion, as we have shown, can have its fulfillment, as we have decided to do. Tomorrow morning, President Fico will call the RAI Supervisory Committee and I tell you that the proposal that the North League will make is that if this Government wants to renew the Board of Directors of RAI, in fact with the Gasparri law (but we have understood this and it will go), it has at least the power to respect the work of the Commission, of the rapporteurs, of the oppositions, and to have the same delicacy that we have demonstrated, to take the measure in hand and bring it to the Chamber with seriousness, and that with regard to the renewal of the Board of Directors, although with the Gasparri law, there is a path that has the same breath regarding the evaluation of who will be appointed. We do not think we can make a serious evaluation between Saturday and Tuesday or Wednesday next week, regardless of the names, which we do not care (in fact we have not made names). Someone may have moved forward with the work, but it is not our problem or something we are interested in. Mr President, I appeal to you. We want, probably in September, with more breath and seriousness, to renew yes with the Gasparri law, but at least with the power to have a respect for Parliament that this Government, I regret to say, once again shows that it absolutely does not have. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u301	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u302	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u303	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, we began this work by hearing Prime Minister Renzi saying that he would not elect another board of directors under the Gasparri Act. The government introduced a law that we didn't like so we wanted to be barricades. We are determined to do so but, finding a rapporteur willing to accept some basic proposals for RAI, we begin a dialogue I must say fruitful: although we do not change the deep sense of this RAI, we come at least to find points of contact. Then comes an amendment from the Government that says: be careful, Parliament, that the reform you are voting on will take effect after the Board of Directors expires that we will now elect with the Gasparri law and, by chance, the Director-General will take over the powers of the CEO. This is already quite unusual, but let us continue the parliamentary work through the withdrawal, also by my Group, of most of the amendments, partly because requests had been accepted, partly because we do not always feel accused of not wanting to dialogue, among other things, specifically, with regard to one of the pillars of Italian democracy, information. Today, as Mr Crosio said, this ultimatum arrives; I would add a detail that my colleague did not say, namely that the pressure also exerted on the President of the Commission during the informal Bureau by Members of the Commission's PD was intended to do all this as soon as possible, as Mr Padoan asked in his letter, namely Tuesday and Wednesday next week. This is unacceptable, it is a slap to us Members, to the rapporteur, to those in the government who have committed themselves to certain paths, to the Italian citizens and to RAI itself. Everyone here will gloat, because this is proof of an agreement that goes beyond the decisions that Parliament can and is indeed the only one that is entitled to take. I asked Senator Zavoli first how long it took them to make this board of directors: three days? A weekend? Then there is someone who has already written these names and has already studied them and nothing is worth what we will decide here, because so much this law will be used in three years and this board of directors will be elected as soon as possible. Mr President, since you are the second office of the State and this is the Upper House of Parliament, I would ask you to manage this matter in an institutionally decent manner, not so painful, in a decent manner, at least in a transparent procedure, in order to enable the Supervisory Commission to assess the seven candidates we must vote on. What's happening is unheard of! Gentlemen, I come here today to discuss amendments, knowing that perhaps next Tuesday we will be called to vote on a new board of directors! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] Mr President, I do not know whether you or this Parliament are interested in being respected, whether it concerns the good of the country or the good of information. This is not the way to work and you know it very well too! [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u304	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u305	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u306	BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, I think that Mr Airola's speech, even if in his own way, has perfectly framed the main question that we must address today, on the order of business in this debate, if, in other words, while Parliament does its duty and legislates in accordance with a procedure that is as shared as possible and as constructive as possible, compared to the reform of that pillar of Italian information, which is the RAI, of that cultural-producing company, as many people like to call it, someone else, even if in the emergency of a situation that we know to be such for a long time, appoints a board of directors under an old law, not being able to do so with a new one. But perhaps that was the goal that we wanted to achieve, because that old law was obviously fine and there was no need to reform the RAI. Then I think it is our job to take note of the work done in the Commission, where a lot of colleagues have worked hard, producing proposals for changes, improvements and additional instruments, so that Parliament is clear what RAI must be in modern times, in this time so critical for democracy, where every step is pushed, every day, tears are made, on institutional issues, as well as on substantive issues for the lives of citizens, by a government that moves in this way. This government loves to move only in this way: this is the only way it knows, that is to put in front of its interlocutors the done fact of a tear and then ask to act in the name of speed. I am sure - and I believe that a little at a time many Italians, like myself, become increasingly aware of this - that that speed will measure the speed with which we will go to crash, heavily, into an abyss in the economy and democratic institutions, heavily undermined and put to the test by the approach of this Government. On the other hand, Mr President, it is clear that the Nazarene Pact - which was fine as well as the Gasparri Act was - is in the throes, to the point that, step by step, on the most important issues that this Parliament pretends and believes it is facing, is there before us. And today that pact was set up with that motorcyclist who, as the colleague of the League told us, brought the letter that the agreement was signed and therefore, within a few hours, had to be renamed a board of directors on the basis of an old law, because this Parliament has allowed itself to table 1,000 amendments on a subject that, as well as on others that we have dealt with in the past in this House, is so much related to the delicate balance of information and democratic life in our country. It is not about the partitioning of parties, but about the democratic life of the country. And then out of decency, because this is or should be the shrine of the democratic life of the country, stop. Mr President, I appeal to you, as on other occasions - we are not here to pursue Nazarene governments or pacts; we are here to guarantee democratic institutions and to make them work, pretending that they are efficient and effective, but for citizens of all directions, who must be able to find in public information the guarantee of true information, not the aggregation at all costs. That was what they used to say, but today we are talking about the Nazarene Pact. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u307	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u308	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u309	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am, to say the least, appalled because, as you will recall, the Conference of Leaders wanted to set the date by which this draft RAI reform law was to be voted - on 31 July, a decision confirmed by, among other things, the majority vote - speeding up with regard to our work - and we will see it now with the examination of the amendments - to respond to the great announcements made by the Government that this reform would completely change its register. Given that we do not share almost any of this provision, I find it really paradoxical that, while we will be forced to run this evening and tomorrow, given the deadline of 31 July for voting, the Government has tabled an amendment concerning a transitional rule in which it is clear that the will is to reach the vote of a new board of directors with the rules of the Gasparri law, without any kind of respect for the work of this House. You see, Undersecretary Giacomelli, that amendment presented by the Government could be modified and changed, could be inserted more binding norms and indications on how to choose the seven members of the council, while applying the old law Gasparri: unless you always take everything for granted, you could do it, because 31 will vote, even against our opinion. Then there is the vote on the amendments, with all the parliamentary work standing. Today we find ourselves instead with a letter from the Government, therefore from the shareholder of the RAI, which says that we must make the new board of directors, even quickly, therefore without any kind of respect for the work of this Assembly. No one, let alone me, can think that the rapporteur - and I say this to you - did not know. The government certainly knew that Minister Padoan would deliver this letter and that there would be this acceleration. But I also think that the rapporteur could not help but know why, in that case, he should have resigned from his position as rapporteur. This means a complete delegitimization of the work of this House. I say even more. I am not talking about us, who have not traded on the number of amendments. In contrast to other amendments, we have tabled 45 amendments, all of which have an alternative proposal; we could even divide them, some even into 10 or 15 amendments. However, there is a standing debate about the criteria. As far as we are concerned, we think that there should be a publication on the website in time and that there should be a register at the Authority. However, there is a discussion about the type of choice and how to make it, not only to make it transparent, but to try - at least this was our effort - to avoid it more and more from the indications of the parties. While all this is taking place, while we are about to explain the amendments, today in the Supervisory Committee we have had this surprise. I don't think we can really understand what work we're doing at this point. The government completely denies because it makes great announcements and then - the facts matter - the board of directors is renewed with the rules in force, since there is no type of reform. Having said that, at this point I frankly do not understand why we should once again not be considered in the work and in what may be the free determination of the House itself, but honestly, Mr President, I do not even understand why we need to be in a hurry so that the deadline for the final vote expires the day after tomorrow, since the government has officially told us today that we actually have all the time. In fact, the new appointments will last for a long time. Unless it is all a fake, as usual; a decree will be issued that will transform the general manager into CEO, as it is written in the transitional norm, to the face of the reform, the new rules and the subtraction of the RAI to the parties. For the truth, the reform proposal may take away everything from the citizens, but the parties do not take away anything, because it even regulates how newspaper headlines are plotted. So I think it would be appropriate, at this point, to discuss everything calmly and perhaps also to postpone the final approval and the work of the reform itself to September. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u310	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u311	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u312	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I believe that it will then be the Government and the majority that will decide how to proceed. The Group of Forza Italia has taken no obstructive attitude, nor has it sought abnormal, subterfuge, pacts and anything else. We have acted with transparency and determination. I have already spoken several times in this House, even at the end of the general debate, claiming - as we did in the Commission, with speeches on the substance of the issues, and as we will also do in this House, if we are to debate now, tomorrow or when it is decided to do so, we have no problems in this regard - and defending first of all the law in force, which I certainly consider a good law. Someone considered it an ignoble, unenforceable and anything else law; then it changed towards and today the Government says that that law can be applied. It wasn't that bad, apparently; it's an applicable law. We have not obstructed the Commission, nor are we going to do so in this House. I have here the file of amendments that we will have to vote on: our Group has tabled a hundred amendments. The fundamental issues can essentially be summed up in 20, 30 of these amendments because we defend the judgments of the Constitutional Court, the relationship between Parliament, the Government and the public broadcasting service and the prevailing role of Parliament. This is not a split between parties. I have said this several times and I repeat it. The judgments of the Court from 1974 to 2009, over thirty-five years, therefore with different judges (because in thirty-five years the members of the Court change several times) have constantly said that Parliament must have control, the prevalence, have spoken of parliamentaryization so much that in the Commission I appreciated the realism concerning the figure of President of guarantee with two thirds, a strengthening although not yet satisfactory of the role of the board of directors. In the amendments that we have tabled, of which we do not anticipate the merit, we discuss the role of the CEO in place of the Director-General of which we have discussed with the speakers and the representative of the Government in the light of day and day, without obstructionism in the Commission, in a transparent way. Today the Government, by its autonomous decision, sends a letter, having already expired the summits of the RAI for a long time, in which meanwhile it invites to apply the law already in force. Then we can do another one that we'll discuss tonight or tomorrow. Those who say that the deadline is urgent are right and that the bill must be approved by Friday at noon; make vobis. My Group will make the necessary comments and personally, in the face of the letter from Minister Padoan calling for the application of the existing law that others had scarred with strong words, they can stay here on Friday, Saturday and Sunday to discuss the amendments. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I don't have any personal problems. I also have family and friends back from vacation. I believe that the government will have to tell us what to do with the realism in the application of the current law which, in my opinion, is a good law for the reasons I have outlined and will explain. Moreover, the President of the RAI Supervisory Committee said a few weeks ago in a statement, which he may have forgotten: I will demand the application of the law because the Council has expired. We therefore await clarification from the Government, then Parliament, with regard to the timing we have given, will make its assessments; I do not know whether a Conference of Parents should be convened. We have not obstructed the Commission and we have not prepared ourselves for any obstruction in this House; we support and support specific issues of merit on the delegation and role of the CEO, waiting for a transparent confrontation. If the current law remains in force for a long time, it means that it was a good law and the country and Parliament will certainly benefit from it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u313	He asked undersecretary Giacomelli to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u314	Mr President, I understand what needs to be done to remind all of us of the elements of the path we are taking. I have listened, to the truth, to some right requests to the Government to say a word of clarity about their intentions, but also some expressions that bring together different things. We started this path a few months ago by explicitly declaring our intention to reform the part of the single text that deals with RAI governance by declaring and approving in the Council of Ministers the guidelines, aimed at a profound change of the mandate of Public Service, also intervening on the RAI canon. When we showed a reflection on how to intervene on governance, the roads were two: a decree-law - and I would like no one to be scandalized, because I believe there are precedents - or the parliamentary path. I quote from memory, but it seems to me that from all the Groups, majority and opposition, an invitation has come to the Government to address the discussion on the reform of RAI governance in the parliamentary path. And that was the choice the government made. In the Commission, and the Commissioners of all the Groups can testify to this, we have taken a path that is neither formal nor armored. We were asked to take an open path, true, willing to grasp the improvements and to confront ourselves on the ideas that different groups proposed on the aspects of the law. And this has happened on time, through a work which I acknowledge to the Commissioners and to the Commission, which has worked hard and has produced some changes that are not trivial to the text with which the Government had addressed the path. Of course, we have waited a few weeks, because of the overlapping of the text on school and others on which the opinions of the Budget Commission were needed - but these are passages that you know much better than I do - and this has led to a wait. But if you choose the parliamentary path, you must also accept such drawbacks. We have come to this House and we have discovered that although the Commission's path had been intense, there was a further need to deal with amendments and proposals. We said that we would not subtract and that we were willing to work on the text, not closed to any possibility of improving it with all Groups. Senator Ranucci can confirm that the government has spoken and is interlocating with all groups. I do not understand why sometimes we are unfair to ourselves and think that it is here in the Senate who knows what kind of negotiation for the withdrawal of amendments. If we ask for a comparison on the substance, it must be noted that the opposition groups first, that there is no strange bargaining and, when the points put forward are accepted, it is logical that this leads to the overcoming of a number of amendments. Nevertheless, we found ourselves in this unique situation. We started from a preliminary constitutionality. Let me translate it politically: it means that the rules in force have respect for the pluralism and centrality of Parliament, while the rule that the Government proposes has another approach. That is not the case in our view, and that is not the case with the majority, and the prejudices have been rejected. Let me say, however, that, if this is the opinion that oppositions in several places have expressed, it is a little surprising now to hear the accents of regret because we proceed with this legislation by those who have done everything, until the preliminary constitutionality, in order to maintain the current approach. However, the Government has maintained the firm idea that the path of parliamentary confrontation was the main road, with all the risks of the path itself, to approve the reform of RAI governance, precisely because it is too valuable a asset to proceed differently. It is said that the communication of Minister Padoan has now arrived, but that actually the RAI summits had already expired. Of course, our problem was not to act immediately at the end of the RAI summits, but to understand if the parliamentary path, the Senate and the House, had the opportunity to conclude in a reasonable time to a short extension, nothing more than a technical extension. When, in recent days, it was clear that, after the conclusion of the examination the part of the Senate, it was absolutely not conceivable - through a normal intercourse with the Groups, that it is easy to have - that the House was exhausted in a few weeks' journey, we had only two scenarios ahead (which I explained, and therefore surprise tones amaze me): or adopt now - late, returning to our steps - the path of a decree-law that perhaps, taking the text of the Senate, activated the reform; or unlock the procedure for the renewal of the current norms, providing exactly a transitional rule of law management, as soon as it will be approved. We cannot force a branch of Parliament - we have not done it with the Senate and we will not do it with the House of Deputies, if this is the way we have chosen - to a forced stage course, because that would negate exactly the sense of choice, which is the comparison. I will be pleased, at the end of our work, to see together how the text has entered and how it comes out and - in my opinion - has been enriched. But if this is the ratio, today the government's communication starts, because it has now become clear that the other two roads are not feasible. The decree-law, by the will of the President of the Council, is not a viable path; the idea of a rapid transition to the House is not in fact, because it would be nothing more than a tear. What are we looking at, then? We have the possibility of a long examination in the House - as it was in the Senate - perhaps with some modifications, which require a new passage. So at the RAI company we're working on, what do we say? For a long period of time, a situation of extension should continue, with the Management Board in a position to wait only for the replacement and with the Director-General in such a situation. Just look at this morning's news, which brings about the arrival of new protagonists in that sector, and know this world for a minute. Long months of extension, uncertainty and immobility of the Company would be an unacceptable cost and, moreover, in contradiction with the will of Government and Parliament to improve exactly the business dimension of RAI. For these reasons, and taking into account all the things, we have decided to confirm the choice not to proceed by decree-law. I must say that I am sorry that - even in the legitimate and understandable controversy, after words of fire have been spent, when months ago this has been put forward as a hypothesis - we do not spend a word today to acknowledge that this is a path that has been traveled and that has taken the path of parliamentary confrontation. The second element is that it is not conceivable to force the path of a branch of Parliament, which has the same right as the Senate to do a deep job. We do not have the right to impose on the Company a period of immobility, which would obviously mean, in order to wait for the time of politics, to live a risk compared to the need for important strategic determinations. On the other hand, I repeat that I have never had the feeling that oppositions considered the current rules to be an attack on democracy. In fact, I had the opposite feeling so far. In fact, President Fico, in recent days, in the press had revealed the intention - unworkable from the point of view of the route - to act autonomously with the current law. Frankly, therefore, I do not understand the tone compared to the chosen path. I'd keep the two floors separate. That of the work we are doing, of the debate on reform, is of value to me and I would be going on with the time set by the presidency of the Senate and with those that the other branch of Parliament will then want to follow. Of course, the shorter the time and the more we manage to bring back, at least in the central part, the size of the company that the reform aims to assert in RAI. Other is the path to the renewal of the summits at this point and not when they have expired. In fact, we have waited and, if there had been an answer today saying that, after the Senate's work, in three or four weeks the other branch of Parliament undertook to conclude the examination of the measure, it would certainly have been preferable. However, if the political determination of the Chamber is not this, we take note of it and today the Government responsibly communicates to the President of the Supervisory Commission that it can proceed, or rather not - as has been said - that the Board of Directors has expired, but activates the formal path, communicating the approval of the financial year, after which the procedure can start. What happens now? I think it is normal, if the ratio is what I said, that the Minister should say that we should proceed as soon as possible; if we all had a long waiting period, the subject did not exist. The timing, for the information I have, is entrusted to a speech by the President of the Supervisory Commission with the Minister. I believe, in fact, that today the Bureau of the Supervisory Commission has given a mandate to President Figo to speak with Minister Padoan and determine the most appropriate times and arrangements for renewal. These are the facts. Everyone can judge them, and it is obvious that this is so, from a political point of view with freedom. I ask only that the Government be recognized the position that from the beginning had the following characteristics: the acceptance of the parliamentary confrontation with all the consequences, the idea of not making the Company pay the right demand of the policy and the institutions to have ample time for discussion and, therefore, to proceed in the possibilities that the arranged combination of these things obliges. I realized that some groups said they were willing not to obstruct. But I do not think this is a point of discussion with regard to the renewal process which, moreover, according to the oppositions is more guaranteed in the form in which it takes place, but not in my opinion. Parliamentary work has its own autonomy. We have accepted the invitation precisely not to armor the text. It seems to me, with regard to the demands of the opposition groups, as well as those of the majority, that there are elements that allow us to further improve the text that will emerge from the Senate. As far as we are concerned, the availability is intact and the value we give to this path is intact and we will also defend it by presenting it to our fellow Members and in the subsequent stages. Of course, it is the determination of the Groups and I think that they were all convinced and in good faith, in the idea not to do anything but strange negotiation, but to accept the confrontation and competition of all to improve the text and make a good law. If that is the spirit - and I do not doubt it - of everyone, I believe that the work can continue and begin on the substance.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u315	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u316	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u317	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I could make use of the rule of the Rules of Procedure that, after the intervention of the Government, the debate is reopened. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's why you have the floor. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). The intervention of the Government is however a new fact, which is added to the new fact, of the letter of Minister Padoan, which begins the procedure for the renewal of the members of the board of directors. All the more so, with these two new facts, Mr President, I am here formally asking for the Conference of the Leaders to be convened, because we have given ourselves deadlines, we have decided on a way of working and it has been established that the deadline for the final vote is 31 July. But, apparently, all this haste, given that we want to do a very thorough work on the reform and also according to what the representative of the Government has said in his speech, I do not think there is. I therefore believe that there are all the conditions for bringing together the Conference of Leaders and for better discussion, since there is only one day left, in the light of the new facts and also of the new government communications.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u318	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u319	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u320	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, first of all we are talking about a proud trial here. In the meantime, we don't do the government agenda. So if we don't have time, it's not because we obstructed or because we didn't want to discuss RAI; On the contrary, we were among the first to submit a reform text of the RAI. We are, therefore, now with a proud itinerary in which at any moment certain pieces are changed. Then there is another aspect: the law that was there was already we did not like it and we said it immediately; the RAI that there is now certainly not like the majority in here - these were the statements about it - and the new law we do not like. Therefore, we are faced with a ravine: at least we try to throw ourselves with a parachute and do our work as parliamentarians. You, dear Undersecretary, speak of two levels and it seems to me that there is the level of the stake and the bucket for the parliamentarians and the level of the greats to the Government, who do the important things and run a process that should not have started like this. I repeat, in fact, that here we are faced with a situation in which we discuss a law and a board of directors will be elected perhaps the day after tomorrow or in four days, with everything that follows, that lasts three years, with the clause however that the government takes a piece of it. And it seems to me that this is something that is already not acceptable in itself. This, however, came when the process was fierce, after the Commission's work and after the opening of the dialogue. Another important point is that we do not know what Parliament will bring out. Do we know before? Then why would Renzi decide on the basis of a law that doesn't even know how it will come out? [[Applause from Senator Simeoni]] The reason is that it could have many more advantages later, because if by chance this law will be changed in the course of the discussion and in the passage to the House, we do not know what it will become. Precisely for this reason, it's even more absurd that they let us play, and I rebel against that, because I'm not playing, but I'm serious. This, moreover, is an issue that I very much care about, because we have been in Parliament for two and a half years and have been so destroyed by the media and also by the public service that we want to reform it, and not take it from ourselves, as we have not done so far. [[Applause from Senators Nugnes and Eating.]] That's also why we don't like the Gasparri Act. We want to work to improve it, also in the light of the great challenges facing RAI - we shall be discussing them in the context of the amendments. The RAI, however, has little time if it continues like this. Generalist television will be three, four or five years old, just the length of time of the board of directors and, when it expires - I assume it is a package, it quickly and quickly elects in five or six days - the RAI will be dead. Generalist television must change radically and for this it needs a slim, operational and possibly independent board of directors, as we wanted. Surely the Premier's idea - I said it in general discussion and you heard me - of having a more slender board of directors was also more consistent with our vision. It is clear that we wanted him to be independent and you always want him to be run by parties and politics. But regardless of that, it was the only way to save the RAI and so we don't save it. So we save the interests of all those people who have been inside the RAI for years, and who are at the expense of taxpayers, put there by the various politicians in turn who have passed, and there are so many. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] Just in general discussion I had pointed out the risks of having revolving doors between politics and RAI. Several things have already happened. And I mentioned the case of Petruccioli, which is one of the best known. That's how RAI gets killed. We can also play with the palette today, because we will do this: we will talk about amendments, while someone here has already agreed on names. And I say so. You can also deny me and say that's not true, but to the citizens outside I say it because it is so. Even if you want to check, even if you want to plot, no one decides in two days to set up a new RAI board of directors. That's not how you decide, not even with an ugly law like Gasparri. There is a serious process - on this I am sure that most of you agree with me - to find serious candidates, because either we close the RAI by selling it to the fish market, by cutting it, in a few years by privatising it, or we really reform it. If we really want to reform it, this is a way to kill it, because - I repeat - we will have no impact on the governance of the RAI and on the renewal of its board of directors. We've been waiting since May. We could have started a procedure earlier. Tomorrow morning I will go to the Bureau of the RAI Supervisory Committee - where I am the Parent Company - to hear what the President says, after consulting with Padoan. We need to be sure that this is not the case next week, as a dreaded one, because I repeat that it is a point that is silent, but that completely unravels the absurd clowning of such an operation. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u321	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u322	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u323	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have listened carefully to the statements made by the Undersecretary and also to the statements made by the previous speakers. I would like to reassure you, Senator Airola, because we are as surprised as you are about what has happened in these hours: there is no agreement under the table of any kind. We note and note that the Government has come to the Supervisory Committee today with a letter from Minister Padoan asking the Commission to do its job fully under the old law. We have noted that. The time frame will be determined by the Supervisory Board. I know President Fico also wants to establish new rules for résumés, and I'm not so interested in the problem. I note - and I agree with the Undersecretary on this - that the regime of extension, at a time of global media storm, is a mechanism that is not good for the Company, and therefore, either in one system or the other, the RAI, the public service, however, a governance must be assigned. I take note, however, of another fact as well. The long intervention of the Undersecretary makes us understand - I am not sure that I have understood correctly - that this is no longer a rush. The haste was born from the fact - let me say it with a smile, Undersecretary - that there was a need to ensure governance of the RAI. And this problem is solved by the old law. We are only pleased, because I repeat to the triggering senators that the old law nevertheless ensured that Parliament's control was largely prevalent with respect to the control of the government provided for by the new law. Therefore, we are more reassured that the Supervisory Board is in charge of the appointment to the full of the members of the Management Board. However, if I understood correctly, there is no more rush. Then, because at the Conference of the Leaders, precisely because of the haste the Government asked for, it was decided that Friday morning there would be explanations of vote, at this point, in view of the fact that the Government no longer has this need, perhaps it is really worth calling the Capigup, as Senator De Petris asked, and establishing a different timetable there. If the confrontation, to which the Undersecretary has said to be ready, can be activated with the help of all those who have the good will to concur, and therefore also all the oppositions, we are very happy that there is this willingness. Times are probably no longer expected and the day and a half that would be available to us would be a long time far less than needed. I also ask, Mr President, that the Conference of Group Leaders be convened and that the timetable be re-established, and I repeat, that the Secretary's speech be interpreted correctly. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u324	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u325	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u326	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have listened carefully to the words of the Undersecretary and we have also appreciated them in the honesty of intent. Allow me to make a joke, Mr. Undersecretary: it is useless that he comes to try to do the splendid with a government that has put more than fifty trusts, emphasizing the fact that we have made a path that we call natural. We would certainly have applauded if we had followed the same path as the reform of the procurement code: by writing a four-handed text, between Parliament and the Government, we have produced a job that is certainly more substantial. And we could have done that for RAI reform. But it's just a joke. Having said that, I would like to reiterate to the Government that, as far as the North League is concerned, the terms and agreements made by gentlemen have not changed. As far as we are concerned, the deadline set for Friday by the Bureau to close our work and dismiss this measure, which we do not like and will not vote on. We are, however, sufficiently mature and aware of the determination of the Government and of those who claim to go to renewal, with a particularism that we do not like but of which we have taken note, and democratically we are aware that RAI certainly needs to make this step, because the House will not guarantee certain times to the Company. However, we are equally determined that the openness we have shown over the last few days and hours to want to end this path, not with an unbridled race, but with clear and precise steps, can also be applied in the RAI Supervisory Committee, leaving time for the Commissioners to make assessments and reasonings, in this case not on the method, but on the people we should vote (or, who will and will feel obliged to propose), with determination, rationality and serenity. We do not ask for anything, but we keep our commitments, as we have always done. For the rest, everyone responds to their actions and what they say. We respond to the acts we make and the commitments we make.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u327	Without further comments, I will immediately convene the Conference of the Leaders and suspend the sitting, which will be resumed at the end of the meeting. (The sitting was suspended at 6.53 p.m. and resumed at 4.56 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u328	The Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups decided by a majority to confirm the current timetable. Therefore, tomorrow's sitting will continue the discussion of the draft laws on the reform of RAI and the public radio and television service. In order to maximise the implementation of the timetable, the Commissions are therefore authorised and invited to convene immediately to examine the draft laws and their amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u329	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-29-LEG17-Senato-sed-493.ana.u330	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 30 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.58 p.m.
