ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u4	Colleagues, with access to the request made by certain parliamentary groups engaged in concurrent meetings, the sitting is suspended until 5.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 434 p.m. and resumed at 534 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1385, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of a bill of popular initiative and the draft own-initiative law of the Cirielli deputies; Pisicchio; Bersani and others; Francesco Saverio Romano; Best and others; Lenzi; Zampa and Marzano; Zampa and Ghizzoni; Martella; Francesco Sanna; Bobba and others; Giachetti and others; Giorgia Meloni and others; Rigoni and others; Rigoni and others; Nicoletti and others; Martella and others; Vargiu; Burtone and others; Balduzzi and others; Laffranco and others; Vargiu; Toninelli and others; Door and others; Zaccagnini and others; Valiante and others; Lauricella; Michele Bordo; Marco Meloni and others; Di Battista and others, and 1449.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u6	Madam President, I am against the G300 agenda. I also object to all the premissive amendments to Article 1, with the exception of Amendment 01.103, by Senator Stefano Esposito, for which the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u9	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, thank you for your time. I am sorry that, once again, colleagues who should notice when a colleague raises their hands are sleeping. Before Mr Boschi began his speech, I had raised my hand to intervene on the order of business. I hope you will allow me to speak briefly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're welcome. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Thank you. I wanted to inform the House that today the Council voted against the request of more than 500,000 Italian citizens to repeal the Fornero law. We are bitter because the request of 500,000 voters has been thrown into the nettles and it has prevented the Italians from being able to express themselves. The right to vote, once again, in this legislature is a waste of time because the House has just voted on the non-elective Senate and the impossibility on the part of Italian voters to vote on their representatives; it is a waste of time because this President of the Council has transformed the Provinces into elected bodies in the Cral of Italian politics. It is a piece of paper because, once again, the Council has decided that Italian voters cannot express themselves on something important by referendum, on a subject which, however, in public opinion is considered fundamental. We ask, Mr President, given the seriousness and importance of what has happened, that the debate and work in this House on the electoral law be stopped and that a debate be held in this House on the subject of work and pensions, which is more useful and more topical than what we are dealing with. [[Applause from the LN-Aute Group of Senators Bignami and Campanella.]] President, we are at a time when work is a priority for families, for exodus, which you have created with your vote in favour of the Fornero reform, waiting for answers and pensioners who do not arrive at the end of the month. This is the priority of Italian citizens, not the electoral law, ladies and gentlemen. People, nice colleagues, do not eat with the electoral law and do not arrive at the end of the month with the electoral law. Colleagues, I ask you with my heart and in the name of almost 600,000 citizens, of all the exodus and people who are waiting for an answer. I would ask this House to give a concrete signal to the Italians, that they are close to their problems and their priorities. We call for the use, seen and considering that then the House began even later because of problems within some majority groups or pseudo-majority, today by dealing with this issue that we have proposed and to start again tomorrow with peace of mind with the priority that this topic can have. I will ask whether colleagues actually agree. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I remember one thing, however, and I remind all Italians hoping that it will remain impressed in their mind: the judges of the Constitutional Court who rejected the request of Italian citizens are the same ones who rejected the cut to gold pensions (I refer to the pensions of those 33,000 Italians who receive more than 90,000 euros a year, including them). I think it's a shame: it's a shame for the exodus and all those people who have "disappeared" us with that crap called Fornero law. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u10	You know that the change is only done through the Conference of Leaders, which we shall convene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u13	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, far from me to go into the matter of a ruling by the Constitutional Court which, of course, we do not know in the grounds. However, it is clear to everyone that the question raised by Mr Centinario (that of having a debate on the matter and on the substance) is not at all peregrine. I say this, Madam President, because I believe that all of us have not missed that, in the years following the adoption of the Fornero law, the request by the citizens and all those who have been affected by the reform of the exodus was a very strong request for intervention and clarification for us and for all the elected ones. This is so true that we have tabled amendments and proposed amendments several times. Indeed, what the Fornero reform has provoked on the subject of pensions, creating the so-called exodus, was the failure, in reality, of a pact between the State and the citizens. Among them there was a very precise covenant which, suddenly, was completely violated. I know that many constitutionalists say that, in fact, there is a problem of the eligibility of the referendum for subjects such as these, which impact on the budget. However, I would like to remind myself - you will remember perfectly - that we have already had two referendums, one of which has been held and the other has not. One of these was the 1981 referendum, which concerned the contingency on liquidations (you may recall). We did not get to the referendum because, after the statement of eligibility by the Council, Parliament adopted a law - then it was a different time and we were hearing a little more - that modified the rule, also meeting the demands of the referendum. I would also like to mention the referendum on the escalator which, as you will recall, was celebrated. Therefore, even in the history of this country, there have been referendums which, although certainly having an impact on the budget have been declared admissible. The matter is very serious and delicate. I repeat that, since we have never succeeded, neither in the Commission, nor in the Budget Committee itself (for example, during the examination of the various laws of stability), this House should seriously discuss and address the possibility of amending the Fornero law and that blessed or damned reform, which has really created a dramatic problem for so many Italian citizens and which continues to provoke it. So I absolutely agree that the House today, instead of considering a measure which, however important, is certainly not at the top of its thoughts (it could well be continued tomorrow), should deal for once with the real problems of this country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u14	I greet the students and students of the State Science High School "Edoardo Amaldi" of Alzano Lombardo, in the province of Bergamo. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u17	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, the League has raised a serious problem, which was highlighted by Mr De Petris: work. The only thing we are talking about in this Parliament, as we have seen, is the work in its negative sense, namely the flexibility that now concerns the Italian world of work; a flexibility that actually affects young people. Today, the Constitutional Court declared that a referendum would be inadmissible and that, if it had been successful, it would have repealed the Fornero law really by rendering Italy a great favour. But it wasn't like that. Of course, if it has been declared inadmissible, it means that it has been misplaced. But the political question remains; work remains at the heart of the problems of the Italian State. Unemployment has skyrocketed and exceeded 43%; the percentage of youth unemployment has unfortunately reached a level that has never been seen in Italy in the last 30 years. Renzi has a record, it is true, a European record: during the Italian semester of the European Presidency he did nothing. I repeat, he didn't do anything. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] This is the gift he gave to Italy. He came to this House - I remember it as if it were yesterday - to be a child, to try to say that the Italian semester of European Presidency would have been fundamental for Italy. It is true that it was essential to make us look thin, Madam President. Returning to the subject of work, I believe that, rather than talking about electoral law, which really does not serve this country, it is appropriate to talk about work and talk about pensions. And really here in Parliament, rather than having citizens sign a repealing referendum, we can now, at this time, all work together to ensure that the Fornero law is truly out of date. Let's start our consultations, let's do something, because actually people out there can't take it anymore. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u18	I'd do it this way. As I interpret - I imagine - your request to change the agenda very urgently, pursuant to Rule 56 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I put it to the vote, remembering that two thirds of those present are needed to change the agenda. I declare the vote open. If you wish to change the agenda for today's sitting, please raise... [[Protests from M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] We need electronic voting. SANTANGELO (M5S). But who asked for this? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So, since you asked... [[Comments of Senators Candiani and Centinario]] I told you we're gonna do it. If you consider the urgent request, I shall put it to the vote on the basis of Rule 56 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, according to which it is up to the Presidency to decide. I therefore call on the vote to be taken by a simultaneous ballot. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Extending ironic applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] You're from M5S and LN-AUT. Bravo! [[Senator Candiani's lively protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u19	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G300 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u22	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Well done, the exodus thank you. Is this also part of the Nazarene covenant?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u23	Would you let Senator Calderoli speak, please? Please, Senator Calderoli, you have the floor to make your explanation of vote. [[The Senators of the LN-Aut Group display signs bearing the words: "Fornero Law." The State Against the People]] Please lower those cartels, otherwise I will proceed directly to the vote, while I would like to respect Senator Calderoli's request to make his explanation of vote. (Parliamentary assistants and quaestors withdraw some cartels.) Senator Centinario, you who are the Parent Company, invite your colleagues to lower the cartels and let Senator Calderoli speak. [[Senator De Petris repeatedly points out that she wants to intervene.]] DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). President, I want to know whether you have declared eligibility or not. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We're voting, Senator. So far, no eligibility has arrived. (Senator Centinario refuses to hand over the cartel to parliamentary assistants.) Senator Centinario, please lower that cartel; you are also the Parent Company. Senator Calderoli, take the floor. I gave it to him. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, you have to ensure that I can do this without them jumping at me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then you help me with your group so you can talk to her. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). There are Senators Quaestors for this. It's not my job. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Otherwise, I give the floor to others. (Parliamentary assistants withdraw the last signs.) Well, we've picked up the signs, and now you can talk, Senator Calderoli. You're welcome. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, let us reset time because I have not yet begun my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, Senator. The time at your disposal departs from this moment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a perfectly legitimate request was made earlier, and I do not see why my group's colleagues were surprised, because everyone who voted against it voted for the Fornero law in this House. Let's be clear about that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S, Misto-SEL and Senators Bignami and Campanella Groups.]] I would like Members to put their attention to this agenda on which, in an incredible way, the Government has expressed an opinion against it. For a year now, I have been trying to get answers to whether or not there is an electoral law that can be used the next day. We called the expert technician of the Ministry of the Interior and, in the face of my question if there is an electoral law immediately usable, he replied: You know better than I that there is no electoral law at this time. Mr Alfano is called, and we are asking whether all the procedures have been carried out so that we can vote tomorrow, and Mr Alfano tells us - the Commission's colleagues are witnessing this - that everything has already been done; everything is in place. Let us check whether there have been any secondary acts with which to vote and absolutely nothing has been done. In the premises of this agenda, of a disarming simplicity, it is affirmed what the Constitutional Court says, that is, that the legislation that remains in force because of the declared constitutional illegitimacy of the provisions subject to the question raised by the Court of Cassation, is altogether suitable to guarantee the renewal, at any time, of the elective constitutional body, as required by the constant jurisprudence of the Court (words of the Court). In the other point, the Court allows the Government to adopt secondary actions merely technical and application of the same judgment, as well as of the interpretative solutions contained therein. These words are what the Constitutional Court decided in relation to the electoral law, namely to commit the Government to adopt the secondary regulatory interventions mentioned in the premise and which I have just read of, in the more than the entry into force of the new electoral legislation approved by Parliament. With the agenda before us, I try to get the government to implement the secondary legislation required by the Constitutional Court. We all hope that constitutional reform, electoral law and everything else will be achieved, but if this does not happen and the day after tomorrow someone should dissolve the Chambers, we want to see the clarity of the electoral law with which we are going to vote. Since his opinion is explicitly against the denial that there is an electoral law, I would be grateful if the Government would kindly state its intention not to carry out secondary legislative acts which the Constitutional Court asks for, otherwise I would be frankly perplexed; or I fear that I have understood it, but I would like to understand it better. Does the Government - at least in a voice, so that it can be found in the shorthand report - claim that there is legislation that can be used tomorrow? I certainly hope so. Then explain to me why you do not want your Minister of the Interior to do the secondary acts that would be tantamount to putting alongside the list a line on which you can write the preference. I would have liked an explanation. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u27	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, the G300 agenda, on which we will vote in favour, raises an issue that has accompanied us throughout the debate that took place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and at the stage that preceded it. As Senator Calderoli has just mentioned, this is an issue which, among other things, has been constantly put to the audits (Presidents emeritus of the Court, an official of the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister himself). Honestly, I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen: at the moment we supported and tabled an amendment of ours which once again puts the Consultellum back in line and, as it were, we have put the question of what is currently the electoral law in force in the country. You teach me, in fact, that there can be no democratic country in which - anything that can happen in two hours, the day after tomorrow or in a month - one cannot understand which electoral law one can vote with. Faced with our request to implement and therefore anticipate rules that would allow, through the bill, to make the Consultellum applicable, since I continue to argue that it would not be immediately applicable to the Senate and that therefore specific norms are needed, the Government, both with the response of Minister Alfano and with other interventions, has always tended to say that in reality the law is and is the Consultellum - that is the derivative of the judgment n. 1 of 2014 of the Court - and that therefore it is enough simply to give life to a series of secondary regulatory interventions in order to allow to go to vote at all times. Moreover, as I have heard during these hours, the President-in-Office of the Council has threatened several times to go to the elections with the Consultellum. Without prejudice to the thesis that we have been given several times in the Commission, namely that the law is actually there and it is enough simply to make some minor arrangements, I cannot understand why the Government is now expressing an opinion against this agenda. Frankly, everything begins to become quite incomprehensible. Unless the thesis that we have always supported, namely that we simply want to approve the Italicum, pretend that it applies only to the House and then, in the case of elections (which are threatened a day yes and a day no) the Italicum is extended to the Senate, perhaps through a decree to lose, it is not the real purpose of the Government, with good peace of all those who are satisfied or pretend to be satisfied with the so-called safeguard clause, according to which this law will apply only from July 2016. I would very frankly ask the Minister if, in addition to the opposite opinion, he could also explain exactly why. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group]] , because I believe that all of us and those who listen to us need to know which law we would vote on if anything happened tomorrow and we had to go to the elections. I believe that in a democratic country this is an indispensable condition, given that at this moment, frankly, there is no more certainty of anything. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u30	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I believe that this is a clear example of the government's inability. First of all, Madam President, I would ask you to consider putting additional seats in this House, because today there is a full seat - who knows why - while there are usually so many empty chairs. I don't think seating is enough. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is an agenda that demonstrates the inability of this Government, but also its falsehood. As my fellow Members said earlier, Mr Alfano came to the Commission to declare, at my specific request (similar to that of all my colleagues), that there is of course always an electoral law ready to go to the vote at any time. Well, as my fellow Members have shown, and I do not go so far as to go into detail, in fact that is not the case. The decision of the Constitutional Court, in addition to having effectively abolished the majority prize (while you re-introduce it in an almost obligatory way, because it is a majority prize or a ballot, it always remains so and therefore goes against the judgment), has also introduced some novelties: the judgment has added something to the law, that is the preference, that was not there before. What does that involve? I also explain this to those who do not know what we are talking about. So far it has been voted by putting a cross on a symbol on the card, and no other sign is allowed except a cross, a tick or a line on the symbol, since no other indication must be given in the card: this is how it is written. If this Parliament should be dissolved tomorrow - which we hope has been elected by an unconstitutional law [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , but I understand that it is difficult to get away from it - one would vote with a law and an electoral ballot that should provide, as the Constitutional Court has decided, for preference. But I simply ask: on the ballot, where should preference be placed? How's it gonna be written? How is this to be indicated? And how many preferences can there be? Is it possible to indicate the surname and the name, in case of homonymousness? All that regulation that existed in the previous law, when there were preferences, where it is written, where it is indicated? How does the voter indicate his vote? But not only that, the law requires the lists to be presented according to an order, which will then determine the election. Well, even in the presentation of lists, it is necessary to give indications: whether to alternate the sexes, if there must be a minimum or a maximum of representatives of one or the other sex. These are issues that you have already addressed in other rules. The problem is that all these rules are missing. Mr Alfano has indeed come to lie, he has lied in the Commission and this is a very serious fact, because he said that everything is fine and that everything is there, but there is nothing. If we go to vote tomorrow, there is no rag of regulation to determine how to vote. It has been requested for more than a year and this is not a legislative exercise, it is a regulatory exercise that should make offices, ministers and ministries and does not foresee which political decisions: we simply need to determine how we can apply the Constitutional Court's ruling today. Well, we are not able to vote today because there are no instruments indicated by the Court. The Court also indicated the solutions: it said that for preferences one can refer to the previous law, or to the referendum, which provided for only one preference (so there is no doubt that preference should be one), created the conditions for the Minister, based solely on the judgment, without having to make any political choice, without having to ask the Groups, to make the rules directly to make the judgment of the Constitutional Court immediately operational. This, I repeat, is an agenda and I was taught, when I arrived in Parliament, that from what world is "one agenda is not denied to anyone," even in the form of a recommendation or an invitation to consider the opportunity, but there was not even a proposal for rewording that contained at least the invitation to consider the opportunity to intervene, at least that. No, you don't. This is the proof, once again, of the inability of this Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u32	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u33	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I agree with the remarks made by Senator De Petris and, last but not least, by Senator Crimi. However, I would like to add that the G300 agenda is not shared by the Government and I have tried for a moment to understand the reasons. What are the reasons? The reasons are linked to the so-called safeguard clause that we will shortly be voting on, because if that safeguard clause, as formulated in the amendment tabled by the Capi gruppos, clearly expressed that declared will to allow the use, that is, the entry into force of the electoral law that we are about to actually approve after the date of 1 July 2016, then this agenda presented by Senator Calderoli would not make sense, because it is clear that this electoral law could not be applied before July 2016, under the so-called safeguard clause. But why did that Government, whose Minister of the Interior in this House, on one of the last occasions when he spoke here, declare exactly what Senator Calderoli has dedicated to a agenda today? But there is more, gentlemen: there is a sentence of the Constitutional Court. I wonder if in our country sometimes the sentences must be executed regardless and, at other times, you may not consider them. I can understand a judgment of merit, which as an attorney I can also discuss in the determinations... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). ...but I cannot understand that this happens with a decision of the Constitutional Court, which says that, in blackberries, the Government can adopt those adjustments, those adjustments, that allow the possibility to go to the vote with the Consultellum, modified in the parts that it had identified. Well, I do not understand why the Constitutional Court's suggestion should not be shared and accepted by a government. These are the reasons for my personal position. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, please let me complete this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It has already completed and has exceeded the time at its disposal for over two minutes. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I just want to conclude, Madam President. I love clarity. I was told clearly how this electoral law is to be done, when it is to be applied in our country, but not with whisper phrases and phrases, unusual from the point of view of the normative technique: I can probably also share, by party discipline; but by party discipline I do not allow anyone to offend my, even modest, intelligence.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u36	D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). Madam President, we, as the LAG Group, share the views of Senator Calderoli, who, however, I believe is a sin of some naivety. They will remember that a famous philosopher, Protagora of Abdera, used to say: "Man is the measure of all things: of those who are, because they are; of those who are not, because they are not. Of course, there is a majority that believes there is legislation in case we go to vote and a minority - you will excuse the bad faith - who would like to see where the papers are that must codify and regulate this case. Two o'clock, one o'clock. I believe that Mr Boschi should reassure, beyond the expression of the opinion, those who excited him (in the political sense, of course) with an agenda, telling us where these paper elements immunize us, tomorrow morning, from having to face an electoral competition without having any reference points. To support Protagora's thesis - you will allow me, I quote what it is - I came to mind the action that a great artist, Piero Manzoni, made in 1961, when he boxed human excrement by titled the work "Merda d'artista". So, it was also something that might recall this singular artist, but show us what you have boxed up if we go to the polls in the morning. I believe that it is legitimate, unless you, who are the measure of all things, do not want to demonstrate, for the umpteenth time, the falsity of one of the main elements of political imperialism, that is, that democracy lies in the tyranny of the majority. You are a majority even able to prove, without factual elements, that there is something. I believe that there is some Messianic element in this and that the mere parliamentary majority is not enough. Beyond the agenda profiles, on which the Government has expressed itself or not in favour, could you please tell us - I appeal to you, President Fedeli - before the Italian people and the press all, if there are these elements that immunize us from a traumatic end of the legislature and that therefore allow the Italian people to go to vote and to be able to carry out the elections, as the Supreme Court has said? I was certainly not at the Palatrussardi with Zagrebelsky: I believe that there was Tonini and the "vestals" of the Constitution during the center-right governments, the demi-vierges that are indispected at every proposal that the center-right made, recalling us to the sacredness and incomparableness of the Constitution, that we instead put under our feet, distinguished lords. Tell us at least whether or not these elements exist, which are an obligation for you. It is as if the Chief of Defense told us that we are preparing the Army for future events, but that, if tomorrow was suddenly proclaimed the state of war or Italy was besieged, we would have no means of protecting us from an aggression. This is not a military manu attack: it is an assault on democracy, on the duty that you have towards the Italian people to do indefectible acts. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Gambaro and Pepe]] You see, you can certainly exercise the tyranny of numbers. When I wanted to protest my friend Verdini told me that the voice of the majority is the numbers, inviting me to shut up. Obviously, that is the case, but that is a bit of a Tuscan democracy, not the one that refers to liberalism, liberal culture and parliamentarism. Where do you want to take us, or bischeri? [[Applause from the LN-Aut, M5S and Misto-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u37	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G300 agenda, tabled by Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u40	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u41	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u43	Senator Calderoli, your group has already intervened. In any case, tell us what you intend to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u44	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, there has been a proposal from my colleague, Mr Crimi, for the rewording of the G300 agenda, on my behalf. I welcome Senator Crimi's request and therefore ask the representative of the Government whether he intends to change his opinion in the light of the change requested by Senator Crimi and accepted by me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Government representative to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u45	I would like to ask Senator Calderoli to read the text of the agenda as amended. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). It is a question of replacing the word "Ad" with the other "to evaluate the possibility of" in the device. Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. The government accepts the agenda, as reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u46	Having been welcomed by the government... (Senator Calderoli asked for the vote). ...we still vote. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G300 (text 2), tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u49	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, it is not a fault to speak in Parliament, otherwise they would have called it'silence': we are here to speak. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Mussini]] He looks at me badly every time I ask to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u50	No, I didn't look at her wrong.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u51	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Then I misunderstood his look. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you've misinterpreted him very badly. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, first of all I would like to express my satisfaction because, despite everything, the agenda was finally adopted. It is the only common sense that could be done, as well as fixing my microphone, because it has been falling and continuing to do so since last year. Madam President, I am now putting a question to you about the order of business, because we are talking about the premissive amendments and the issue - as someone said - is serious and very delicate, so I ask you to pay the utmost attention because, since you are acting as the Senate Presidency at the moment, you must play a role of guarantee vis-à-vis all the senators, because at this moment we are faced with a fraudulent scam and I explain why. In the Commission, the premissive amendments had been moved to Article 3 because they also deal with the subject of transitionality, but since there is an amendment that is clearly interrelated to the Government, strangely, when the measure has come to the House's attention, the amendments that were to go to Article 3 are dealt with first. This is a strange case, but where does the scam come from? Madam President, I would like to ask for your attention, because this is a very sensitive point. On the evening of 13 January 2015, with a broad debate on the subject, at 2.05 p.m., we received an email from the Presidency sending out amendments 1,7000, 1,7001, 3,7000 and 1,7000/1. Asking why they had been identified by the Presidency as amendments to which a sub-eminent space should be granted, the next day the President replied to us that, since there were the signatures of the majority group leaders, it was intended to be those to which the sub-eminences had to be referred. You understand that this has therefore been a scam that has been organized since then. That is, we had before us the so-called sambell to run behind and prepare the sub-amendments, when instead the Trojan horse in which there were the real contents of the amendment was another. If the Government today gives a favourable opinion on that amendment, it is clear that there must also have been premeditation. I speak of premeditation because I have 12 witnesses here and we, present at 8.10 p.m., in the amending phase, have witnessed the fact that there was Senator Stefano Esposito who was writing the amendment, which therefore was certainly presented outside the terms. EXPOSED Stefano (PD). No no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no [[Comments from LN-Aut and LAG Groups (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)]] Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). The case wanted (and that is why I spoke of premeditation) that there are not 100 amendments signed by Stefano Esposito, but there is only one: so, the text he was writing was what we saw and had not yet been delivered. That amendment is an agenda which neither changes nor changes nor takes away anything from Article 1. I see you shake your head. When we find out that this is a majority amendment, I am asking you formally, and I am doing so as a guarantee that the President must give all senators time so that all senators can subdue him. Give us an hour or as much time as you want, but let us be able to subservient to the amendment that governs the Nazarene Pact and everything else. However, to exclude the possibility that senators can intervene on the real pivot on which the rest of the measure will be based is to have prepared the trick to cause most of the amendments to lapse. This is not a discussion. I can understand that the government is playing games like this: I would have done them myself, in reverse roles. But you, Madam President, cannot do that: you must ensure that everyone can submit the amending proposals. Then, if the amendments are to lapse, they will lapse. But it is absolutely necessary that we should be able to present sub-eminent proposals to that amendment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u54	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I support Senator Calderoli's request. In particular, I would like to draw attention to what he has said, because if it is true, it should, Madam President, carry out a very thorough review of the facts. Senator Calderoli, in fact, represented a very detailed situation, in which he was not even alone, but was in the presence of other people. To know whether the amendment has actually been tabled outside the terms, given all the controversy that has arisen in this regard, it would be appropriate. In addition, it is indeed quite strange that there has been an e-mail in which the amendments for which there was the right to subempt and not, on the other hand, an amendment which, as the Government's favourable opinion already states clearly, is 'the trap amendment'. Everyone has been saying this for days now, and the news of this trap amendment has been circulating, which would virtually render void any other sub-eminent intervention on the law, because it would lay down those conditions for which only the majority amendment, signed by the Leaders, could be accepted. Everything else, in fact, would be inadmissible. This amendment, which you are making us vote for as a premissive amendment, you are making us vote for it as a kind of safe: let us arm these points and move on, without any possibility of subemendating, as has just been requested. For this reason we associate ourselves with the request made by Senator Calderoli and I think that the other oppositions also have the same need. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u57	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, in vain before I asked you to speak on the question of the admissibility of certain amendments and whether or not the statements were made. Madam President, compared to what happened on the night when the deadline for tabling amendments expired and all that happened on the matter of time and the possibility of subemending, it was clear from the outset that there was an attempt to ensure that some of the oppositions were not able to carry out their work properly. Because you will remember that Senator Crimes in this House, at 6 p.m. that day, had made this matter clear, since press agency launches were coming out. Together with other group leaders, we had joined forces to ask President Grasso to provide guarantees. In fact, at that time we did not know how many majority amendments would have been, which in some way would have made explicit the amendments tabled by the then rapporteur in the Commission. Everything that has happened, even in relation to the times at which the communication was given to us, represents a page that is not upbuilding. We have now listened to Senator Calderoli's statements, which clearly require verification, according to which, even before witnesses, at 8 p.m., when the deadline for tabling amendments had expired, there was someone who - I imagine - was still writing his amendment. It is clear that the issue, from the point of view of procedural guarantees, is very serious and disturbing because, of course, it is possible for the majority to table amendments when it pleases them and does not respect the time limits. Perhaps a protocol should also be established on the procedures for tabling amendments within the time limit set so that everything is signed and signed against receipt and inclusion in the order of submission. From this point of view, I believe that, in any case, clarification must be given to this House and a careful check made by it on what has been reported in this House. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. The debate is legitimate: you can have different positions on the electoral law, but it is no longer tolerable that, since the debate began, we proceed only and only not through a loyal (and perhaps even heated) debate, but through tricks and tricks. First, we had the trick of starting the debate, submitting the amendments to the Commission, and then the government decided that it wanted to go to the House without the rapporteur. For three days the Commission was no longer convened and suddenly, before Christmas, it had to be framed without a rapporteur in order not to table the rapporteur's amendments and not to give the opposition and every senator the opportunity to present the sub-amendments. I have tabled many premissive amendments in the Commission, as you have seen, Mr President. Then President Finocchiaro moved the examination at the end, so much so that we asked a loud voice to vote on those amendments before, but this was not possible because the decision taken by the President was to move them to the end. The most disturbing thing is that my amendments propose very precise rules and not general principles, while today it has made itself acceptable - this concerns the Presidency - an amendment that cannot be regarded as such. In fact, it is an agenda, because it brings together a number of principles that should even be in premise. This is done only and only for the purpose, which has also been declared and flagged by a great many journalists and all the others at this time, of allowing all the other amendments which are contrary to these principles to lapse. Mr President, I believe that the procedure used is much more than a break from the Rules of Procedure. The tricks are being used to keep us from succumbing: an amendment is accepted which, in my opinion, is totally unacceptable because it is an agenda. If Senator Esposito had rightly wanted to make a list of the principles which would then have had to inform the text, he might well have presented the agenda. Instead, the amendment containing a list of principles was tabled in order only to be able to declare foreclosed all other amendments which were contrary to the text. Mr President, from this point of view too, I would ask you to look closely at the question of eligibility. You are in a delicate position at the moment, because even more should guarantee third-party status because you are a vicar President at a delicate time. The question that we are asking about the admissibility of this alleged amendment, which is actually an agenda, I think you should consider it very seriously. As far as I am concerned, this is the fundamental question and then, if - I hope not - you should confirm that this can be considered an amendment, it will be clear to everyone that, at this point, space must be given for the submission of sub-amendments. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bignami, Council and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u60	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, the debate we are debating is very difficult to relate to one another than many of us have been accustomed to hearing, in other words, within a law-making procedure. I wonder why the speech, rather than a reference to the wishes of colleagues, is addressed to you and your prerogatives. The debate being organized and directed by the Presidency is not very clear on what it is focusing on: a debate for the discussion and adoption of a law should follow the succession of different proposals, discern them, bring them to the Chamber and make a provision, through the votes. From the Enlightenment onwards a rule must have a preceptive scope, while the amendment by Senator Esposito, Madam President, contains, in fact, a delegation to Parliament itself. Allow me Senator Esposito, but I have a few more months of experience than he has, and I think I have written a few thousand more amendments and read a few dozen more than he has. I have never read an amendment like this. The reasoning I am making to you now, Mr President, is that it is in a very difficult situation. You have to direct a debate in a situation which is of great institutional difficulty compared to what President Grasso has done. The other day, constitutionalist Ainis, with respect to the rumors that were being pursued about the possibility of the President acting to dissolve Parliament, made it clear to us that these acts concern extraordinary administration and that therefore President Grasso cannot carry them out. The reason why, in the past, the acting President of the Senate was never, except in the previous Merzagora, under these conditions is because before the debate on legislative measures, unless it was a matter of extreme urgency, was suspended. At this moment, however, we are having to discuss in an exceptional situation, with a functioning President. President Fedeli, I do not want to, but I would point out to the House that the President-in-Office of the Council has - for example - voted and sat in his desk, while established practice assigns the President of the Senate, in the need of third-party service, a function that makes him superior to these functions, which are proper to the senator. You, President Fedeli, are not, and therefore you find yourself in the difficulty of discerning something that - as President Calderoli said - has the connotation of a trick that should hardly have been accepted. In fact, it has a modificative scope that does not concern the content of the provision which, being an over-ordered law, must recite within it (especially at the beginning) clarity. And this clear amendment is not. You, at this point, have a difficulty in doing so. I believe that the difficulty would also be overcome because we have all noticed that, without precedent in the history of this Parliament, the call for the election of the President of the Republic has been set at the last possible day. And this happened just ten or fifteen minutes after President Boldrini, to whom this prerogative pertains, was delivered the letter of resignation of President Napolitano. I think that this has been done to allow the government to have as much time as possible to approve the laws that are under discussion in this and in the other branches of Parliament. Such a situation has never occurred. You, President Fedeli, have a great responsibility and undoubted difficulty. For my part, what I would suggest is very simple. If it is true - as President Calderoli says - that the amendment has been tabled out of date - and there are all the witnesses who can support this statement, and I would ask the President to verify - we have a very simple possibility: beyond the judgment of reform compared to the propriety, which was judged as such by President Grasso and would put President Fedeli in difficulty, one could very well, in the light of what emerges, declare that it has been presented outside the prescribed deadlines. In the event that this is not the case, in the face of a request to sub-emend it, as was the case with the amendments tabled by the Presidents of the majority groups, I do not think that there can be any difficulty. President Zanda said in this House, by supporting him with his speech, that the specific value of the amendments signed by the Presidents of the Groups, for a better debate in this House, had convinced the President of the Senate to admit that those amendments were subeminable. But now it is clear that this amendment is even more important than the others. So, if we have declared those subeminable, why should we not consider that the so-called 'Esposito amendment' is also subeminable? Otherwise - I believe you have read as much as I have, Madam President - if Terracini, Fanfani, Merzagora or Mancino imagines them to allow in five minutes, with the vote on an amendment, the fundamental law of a state, the one that regulates the relationship between elected and elected? With the vote - do I not want my colleague, the illustrious and very good Senator Esposito - on the Esposito amendment? Basically, would we move from Mattarellum and Porcellum to Espositum? But what smile could we generate in the parliaments of other countries, which Minister Boschi recalled and which says they will copy our laws? That's something that really makes a fool of itself. Madam President, you have this opportunity. It is a possibility that comes from the forcing of a prerogative, forcing that was wanted by the Government, forcing that I criticized, forcing that criticizes the whole country, forcing that has no precedent. Never was it fixed at the last useful day possible the convocation for the election of the President of the Republic, after his resignation. You think that, in the Segni case, this was done after a long time, but only after eight days; usually it did not intervene more than a week. Let us not force beyond the last possible limit, also because the forcing - as I allowed myself to say at the Conference of the Leaders to the Government - could be of grave harm to the Government and we sincerely do not wish to do so. We hope to make a good law. You have the responsibility and you have the decision. Allow me, however, to ask you quietly to take it as I wished. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI) and LN-Aut.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u61	I would remind you that one Senator per Group may speak on the point of order.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u64	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I believe that what Senator Calderoli has said is very serious and detrimental to the goodness of those who have not already received the out-of-date amendment or cooperated with the Government. No, it is not an injury to the goodness of this one or some. I believe that Calderoli's statement is an injury to the goodness of the entire Senate. Who am I, President? And who are you, President? I am a small fraction of the power of this organism, and it is not an expression that I invent at this moment, but that I derive from affirmations of constitutionalist principles of our country. I represent a fraction of the power of this Senate, and you too, Madam President, represent a fraction, but more authoritative than me, because you are entrusted not only with the responsibility of governing the Assembly, but also with the responsibility of respecting the rules that must accompany the laws, the formation of laws and, more than ever, with a law that regulates the relationship between the citizen and the institution. President. - I do not go into the substance of Mr Esposito's amendment. I do not want to consider, examine, analyse whether it should be an agenda, as some have said, such as Senator De Petris and Mr Ferrara. This is behind us now. The Bureau considered that amendment acceptable. Well, today there is no technical possibility of seeing that admissibility judgment lifted and, therefore, it is useless to talk about it. The Bureau considered that the amendment was admissible and that amendment came to the House. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: So, President Palma, it's time I say what I think. It's a delicate moment in my country. We are approving the electoral law: we are doing so, the majority are bringing this result home, but following the rules of our Rules of Procedure clearly. You see, Mr President, already allowing the amendments tabled by the Heads of Group to be subjugated has in itself been a constraint, but we have embarked on this path of subjugation. Now, why don't we say tomorrow that our Senate will fix, move, play games, I strongly ask you to allow the free debate and, therefore, even an hour, President, what does it cost you? What does it cost the government to allow an hour to subservient this amendment if necessary? What is the problem of an hour or less? I say that in the interest of the government. Someone who called me back thought perhaps that I want to fight in some way the majority of my party. It's not like that. I say this to protect the position and image of the Government, the majority and the political force to which I belong, which at this stage is supporting the majority positions of the Democratic Party. Mine is, therefore, an intervention that goes in that direction and must not be criticized, as a rebel. I am simply a modest operator of the law, which offers you, Madam President, to your colleagues in the majority and to the Government, the suggestion that you do not consume in this Senate an act which, perhaps, will remain in history and which will remind our children. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and LAG groups (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u67	LO MORO (PD). Madam President, since you said earlier that you have the right to speak a Senator per Group, I would like to make it clear that I intend to speak on my own behalf. Tell me, then, whether or not I can continue. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, just make a specific call. LO MORO (PD). The specific point in this speech is that I would have put forward the reasons, which I am about to make, for the debate on amendment 01.103. As the speech has already emerged and is being discussed, I do not think it appropriate to postpone it. I would like to point out to the President, but without insisting so much, that even in my humble opinion this amendment should be declared inadmissible, because in Rule 100 (8) of the Rules of Procedure it is provided that the amendments have an innovative and preceptive content, but I do not think that this has them. For everyone's knowledge, it is nothing more than a substantial agenda. We have had a political battle in the Commission - and I have taken it forward for the PD Group - against the agendas that wanted to preclude the debate on the substance. This is nothing more than a set of principles which constitutes an article which - if it is approved, but I hope it is not - should then form the basis for the precepts and rules that should follow. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut, GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI) and Misto-MovX and Senators Bencini and Campanella.]] Without applause, ladies and gentlemen, I am therefore debating this because I do not see what terms should be allowed for sub-amendments to such an amendment. I'm sorry, but what are we supposed to submend? An amendment that has the sole purpose of not letting us discuss it? Just flunk it. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut, GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI) and Misto-MovX and Senators Bencini and Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u69	He has the right to do so, with the same clarification as above.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u70	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I rise to raise a point of order in my turn, although in a different way, because it is another one that I put to you. The remarks made by my colleagues are all right: I say by definition that when a colleague like Senator Calderoli or the De Petris group leader, as well as the other successive group leaders, raises points, from the point of view of constitutional or regulatory guarantees, these are all acceptable. I would not, however, like to see the debate on this subject necessarily linked to this, such as - for example - the time of tabling amendments or anything else. The matter, Madam President, seems to me to be so delicate and important that even you are going through it. I do not want to take anything away from the authoritative leadership in this House, in such a unique, unique and rare function in the political life that is determined every seven years. I think, however, that the issue is more exquisitely political. If, on the one hand, you are a political party by your nature - and I of course ask you not to change it - I do know that you must reconcile it with the role of guarantor of this House and, therefore, with the possibility, opportunity and freedom of each Member not only to express an opinion, but to see the procedures guaranteed. But the subject is not the procedure, and I want to say it, because this is the first opportunity I have to do so, Madam President. If 45,000 amendments had been tabled in any other structure or institution, this would certainly have gone down, but there was still a valuable work ordered and guarantor of all in this sense too. I wanted to stress this, because this helps me to address my colleague Stefano Esposito directly. Mr Esposito, despite you or despite you, this text probably becomes the procedure by which you deprive Parliament of the opportunity to make a point-by-point comment on a text which you intended to write between an agenda and an actual amendment. If it is treated as an actual amendment, it becomes a trap. Then we insert this into the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, initiated to its decadence and to its end from the point of view of political rank. We conclude a work that others have done - and I think it was wrong before - when they decided that second-level representatives should sit in this House. But even if at second level, the point is whether a fellow senator can present a text which is used, because it is useful and good, to stifle the debate in this House, at a stage such as the one preceding the election of a Head of State, and therefore particularly sensitive, or which in any case sees debate within the many parliamentary groups, opposition and majority, texts of extraordinary delicacy and importance. I am not addressing the proposal to you, Madam President, but I would like to make it to Mr Stefano Esposito, so that he can reason on the possibility of eliminating any doubt. I do not ask you to withdraw this text, which, among other things, we do not know whether it is an agenda or an amendment: I leave it to your conscience as a senator who, like each of us, will make your contribution once we are no longer here and will be judged on the basis of the things we write, read and declare publicly here. Hannah Arendt said that men are judged by the things they say and the things they do. Here, Senator Esposito, take the invitation that the House makes to you, even if in a different way - I do so with respect and with my heart - to remove this very dangerous vulnus from the debate of the moment, allowing the House, the Groups and those who, by constitution, are delegated by the citizens not only to represent, but also to decide, to be able to do it peacefully, as equals, knowing that you, Mr Esposito, are senator like the others and not the assassin of the debate on electoral law. [[Applause from Senator Centinario.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u73	TREMONTI (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, I am speaking personally, but for a general consideration. The electoral law is part of the government program. But on this electoral law there is no longer the original majority of government: there is another majority of government, therefore, perhaps another government, if there were the Head of State. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u76	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Madam President, I am speaking to you as President of the Senate for all intents and purposes, since I have heard some comment on your ability to play the full role you are playing. I will not go into the matter and thank Senator Bonfrisco. My actions are measured every day and I am surprised by the peroration addressed to a senator, when there are amendments with the same characteristics presented by other colleagues, that I would never dream of... SANTANGELO (M5S). Which ones? EXPOSED Stefano (PD). ...and that they will be voted on first, by the way. AIROLA (M5S). Which ones? CRIMI (M5S). Which ones? EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Be good. I was saying, amendments that I would never dream of questioning. However, I only speak to tell you this. Senator Calderoli, I have always had and will continue to have great respect, but I do not accept that you, by the way, using part of your Group, tell lies. You see, President Calderoli, we met, at 19.58: you with your colleagues, the carts, the white and green boxes full of amendments, and I was sitting at the desk when you arrived, so as not to interfere with your work and not disturb the photographers who were filming and doing selfies... [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senators, please let Senator Stefano Esposito speak. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). He's lying! EXPOSED Stefano (PD). I went to the official of the amendment office, who you are making as a liar, and I am sorry because he is an employee of the Senate who does - I believe - honestly and seriously his work, as he did with you. I gave the amendment to him and told him that I only had one and that I thought he was busy with all those amendments and I left. So, I delivered even before you, Senator Calderoli. CALDEROLI. (LN-Aut). No! EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Having said that, you are, of course, entitled to find a way of trying to resolve the issue of my amendment, which is an amendment by a Member like so many others. I didn't invent anything: I put together what someone had unpacked, doing exactly the same job. Some present one and some present 40,000. But to you, Senator Calderoli, I do not allow you to call me a liar. I won't let him. STEFANI (LN-Aut). We all are! EXPOSED Stefano (PD). I'll invite you in politely. You're a master of parliamentary technique. I will call myself Esposito - I also say this to Senator Ferrara - I will be a little younger than you, I will have fewer amendments behind me, but someone, this time, beat you on parliamentary technique. But keep this in mind and respect people without calling them a liar. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Buffoon!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u79	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, it is clear that we are talking about something straight and it is not a personal matter between Senator Stefano Esposito and Senator Calderoli: here we are talking about how to respect the rules that govern a Senate that gives the rules. President, I was in the Senate offices that night and I didn't see the photographers who are described here first. So, Senator Esposito probably had a slip or refers to another circumstance. On the contrary, I saw Senator Stefano Esposito still outside those same offices in which we deposited the amendments. Now, I would like to ask you, Madam President, what is the advantage this majority has in using these means. Senator Esposito can also boast that he is no longer a happy turkey but that he has become a Trojan horse, if this can be something to boast about. But I wonder: if this majority is such a majority, why does it need such a escamotage so that we do not have a parliamentary debate that could highlight non-unity and, above all, a lack of respect for minorities? I told the President a few days ago: we do not have all the tools that the majority or government has to defend the citizens that we have the ambition and the claim to represent, but we have the duty and the right to represent oppositions and minorities. And certainly no one can deny what has been filmed and also seen by all the other senators, with testimony also recorded. Madam President, you have a duty here today to defend the respectability of this Senate. When it comes to asking what is the difference between the amendment of Senator Gotor, the PD majority, and that of Senator Esposito, it is soon said: the same Minister of Constitutional Reforms Boschi a few hours ago, in front of the cameras, was drunk to have identified the 'escamotage to Cassare in a stroke only all the debate of the oppositions through the amendment Esposito. This was written in the news agencies. This is what you are doing today: using this method to make a scam law, as scams are your ways of operating when you do the primary. No, Mr President, we cannot bend to this way of doing politics, and I also say this to those who sit in the right side of the House. But what is in this Nazarene covenant? Now you put the Fornero law in it? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Is this the dignity with which you defend the voters who voted for you? We're not in. Madam President, both as a representative of the institution and as a representative of the institution, give all the senators the opportunity to amend what Senator Esposito has tabled and which, for the majority, becomes the amendment as if it were tabled by the rapporteur. Otherwise - I repeat - not only does the opposition gag, but democracy is being made an experiment of tyranny. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Bignami and Campanella. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u82	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Madam President, we note that with this amendment Senator Esposito has claimed his role as High Speed Senator, building a tunnel that passes through the whole parliamentary debate to emerge from the other side. I would like to point out one thing, before it is procedural, political. We are dealing with the law that will regulate the formation of parliaments to come. In this law, so important, the majority are demonstrating a substantial unwillingness to listen, which is becoming the figure that distinguishes it. The tendency is to define a design outside the classrooms and stick to that, without taking account of the demands, the reasoning and the considerations; without taking into account, essentially, Parliament, which at this point becomes exclusively a body of ratification. Is that what you want to make our country? A country where there is only one government and there is no balance of powers? A country in which all you can do is vote what the government has already decided and which, more or less surreptitiously, makes insert, with puffs, with gimmicks? Then, what is being done may also be in line with the Rules of Procedure, but from a political point of view there is a substantial denial of the parliamentary debate. [[Applause from the Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u85	Orellana (Mist). Madam President, we are now talking about the 'Esposito amendment' and I would like clarification. I have doubts about the text. I see, in point (a), that Italy will be divided into twenty electoral districts and one hundred colleges. Then, in point h), it is said that the electoral colleges will be defined and determined by legislative decree. I wondered, however, how the districts were defined: if not by legislative decree, how? Can we keep what we have? But what we have is not twenty, but twenty-seven; among other things, there is the foreign constituency that is not named. I'm afraid you want to surreptitiously pull out the foreign constituency. In any case, I do not understand how the districts will be defined. In point (h) it is said that the colleges will be defined by legislative decree, but not the districts. The second question concerns point (g): there is a phrase that exposes itself to different interpretations. It says: "They are proclaimed elected." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, excuse me, but we are not discussing the amendment on this matter. Orellana (Mist). I think everyone, before me, talked about this. I'd like to finish. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No. If and when we get there, we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u88	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, it is far from me that we want to be controversial - they are already doing enough - but I have to put my own money into it. I watched a little bit of a scene that I didn't realize, but - as happens in Hitchcock's best movies - the issues then come up in a good two or three times the same scene. I had no intention, of course, of filming Senator Esposito, because he was absolutely not the subject of my wishes in the film. In fact, I was filming Senator Calderoli driving a cart of white and green boxes. Maybe Senator Esposito doesn't work very well in the office, but he should know that the paper chips delivered to the offices are white and green. So, the color is absolutely not wanted, even if we liked it very much. I made a movie because with the cart you had to go down certain steps and in it you see Mr. Esposito sitting at a desk, like a cat in the library who thinks of capturing the newly arrived mouse that, in this case, is Senator Calderoli with all his amendments. It was pretty bad for him, though: in the footage that - I swear to God, we will put on "YouTube", making it shoot a little 'everywhere - you can see him skipping between his practices. [[Applause from the LN-Aut eM5S groups and Senator Gambaro]] It is true that we may be liars, but either we have taken a photomontage, or something is not right, Madam President. By borrowing from a famous movie whose title I don't remember, liar is who the liar makes! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Madam President with red hair, I have a video. I'm sorry: it wasn't my intention to resume the senator, but he remained with his fingers in the jam. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u89	I respond to the points of order which have been raised, having listened to all of them and having carried out the checks. The first question concerns the deadline for submission of sub-amendments by the Presidency. The purpose of the request, which was expressly made in this Chamber by some senators representing their groups, was not so general as to refer to the majority's amendments, but - in the absence, as you know, of the rapporteur's figure - to the amendments signed by Finocchiaro and others. Compared with the initial deadline, it is well known that the Presidency has exercised a wide margin of tolerance. On the other hand, it does not appear that this extension of time limits has concerned Senator Stefano Esposito's amendment, as previously suggested, nor with other amendments by senators belonging to majority groups, even though they are among the premissive ones. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Exactly! It's the opposite. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). It's the opposite! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In addition, objections were raised concerning the admissibility of amendment 01.103, signed by Senator Stefano Esposito. The preceptive content of the amendment sets out certain general aims, in this case in the electoral field, which define a coherent framework and discipline in itself, modifying in part the text approved by the House of Deputies. This intervention is one of the possible common regulatory techniques in a completely similar way, or similar, to innumerable examples found in ordinary legislation: last, Law No 56 of 2014, laying down provisions on Metropolitan Cities and Provinces and, moreover, merely for example, the Law No 36 of 2001, on protection against exposure to electromagnetic fields; Law No 335 of 1995, on the reform of the pension system; Law No 109 of 1994, on public works; Law No 104 of 1992, on assistance, social integration and rights for people with disabilities; Law No 217 of 1983, on the strengthening and qualification of tourism; Law No 18 of 1979, on the election of the European Parliament. Therefore, this content is without prejudice to subsequent implementing and supplementing votes of the purposes and definitions referred to above. Consequently, if the amendment were accepted, it would be foreclosed only sub-amendments and amendments which are directly contrary to the same basic lines as those introduced in the amendment. On the other hand, if the amendment were rejected, there would be no preclusive effect on subsequent votes. For the above reasons, the Presidency therefore considers amendment 01.103, signed by Senator Stefano Esposito, to be admissible in the same way as the other so-called premissive amendments tabled by senators from different parliamentary groups. We shall then proceed to the vote on amendment 01.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u92	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to take the opportunity offered by Amendment 01.6 to make a small procedural assessment and believe that the proposal I am going to make is sincere and cooperative. Paragraph 5 of Rule 100 of our Rules of Procedure states: During the sitting, further amendments may be tabled only if they are signed by eight senators and relate to other amendments tabled or are in conjunction with amendments already adopted by the Assembly. The President can, however, allow, when the opportunity arises, - and with the debate that has just taken place, it seems quite clear to me that new factors have been introduced - to table amendments outside the cases referred to above. My non-obstructional intention even leads me to make a proposal: I am willing to withdraw all the amendments before Senator Stefano Esposito's amendment 01.103, provided that you give me ten minutes to submit a sub-amendment. I do not want to present 44,000; 44,000 will fall, but let me present a sub-amendment and I will withdraw all the proposals that I have signed before Senator Stefano Esposito's amendment 01.103 [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u95	DI MAY (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, I will run the risk of disturbing Senator Zanda's sensitivity once again, but it is on his position that I would like to speak. As has already been said in this House (and I think there is no doubt that I have no high esteem for the third-party status shown so far by the Senate Presidency in our parliamentary debate), I believe that the situation of this day is unique, because I do not miss it (and believe me that I would make the same speech if Senator Calderoli were sitting in his place) that you played a game in this House with a jersey. Therefore, imagine or insinuate the doubt, the suspicion, that his decisions are not dictated exactly by the third-party that that scranno must represent, I believe is legitimate. I would therefore like to point out a very simple fact. Is it possible that once we can take an example of behavior that has come from the highest authority in the State? The President of the Republic has said that he will not participate in voting on the draft electoral law. What does it take to imagine that this work will be suspended and resumed immediately after the election of the new President of the Republic? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u98	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, I apologise but the answer to Senator Calderoli is important before we declare the vote on an amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Endrizzi, explain your arguments and then the Presidency will respond. ENDRIZZI (M5S). It would have been more interesting to be able to assess the situation that is being created from minute to minute, with the hypothesis of seeing 40,000 amendments cleared by the acceptance of a right and a principle of correctness and respect for the rules. You have not responded in any way to the fact that Senator Esposito has tabled his amendment out of terms; this is an issue that is still there as a boulder on the conscience of many in this House, and also yours. Having said that, I have to argue on this amendment. It says, essentially, that, pending the entry into force of the law, one should, in the event of elections, go to vote by a law of 1957 in the House and 1993 for the Senate. Well, this law was intended to ensure, instead, a certainty in the determination of majorities within Parliament, House and Senate, as long as we are still in the current Constitution, and this is clearly impossible where the systems are different instead. If this has been accepted in the past, we do not see the reason for accepting it even for the future, at a time when it is stated that it wants to overcome a situation. It would then be interesting for us to see the effect it does, as a song from a few years ago said. We do not feel, however, that we are failing in coherence. At the time we voted on the Giachetti motion, because at that time, pending a pre-announced decision of the Constitutional Court, it was necessary to restore at least a constitutional compatibility to the electoral system. We're not in this condition anymore. Now a system exists and would serve simple interventions of secondary rank, or better still primary. In this House, however, an act of responsibility has still been refused today, i.e. to suspend work in order to fulfil the duty to ensure the continuity of the institutions. With regard to this, we do not feel that we can accept this amendment. There will be other amendments later that will allow more specific opportunities. I do not know what will happen then, because if we go to vote on Amendment 01.103 as it is, without the possibility of subempting, I do not know if we will have that possibility. At this point, however, if you do not wish to respond to Senator Calderoli's request, we must now make a negative decision. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u101	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, in the list that has been given to you by the Offices in relation to the laws in which there are arguments in favour of the admissibility of amendment 01.103, and which therefore serve to form precedents, it is last mentioned, with a particular value, and compared to the others far greater in scope, Law No 18 of 1979. Madam President, there is no record in the law of what has been said with regard to the amendment in question. I only want to say this in order to be able to make the correction, at least by removing the reference to that law which, in Article 1, in fact, reads as follows: The Members of the European Parliament of Italy shall be elected by universal suffrage by direct, free and secret vote attributed to lists of competing candidates. The allocation of seats between the competing lists shall be carried out in a proportionate manner, in accordance with the procedures laid down in Articles 21 and 22 of this Regulation. It is a precise preceptive arrangement. The electoral districts and their capitals are set out in Table A annexed to this Act. The whole of the electoral districts form the single national college. It is an absolutely preceptive provision and, therefore, I absolutely do not take the reference to the electoral law to support the decision taken by the Presidency, given that, as said by Senator Lo Moro and as previously, modestly, also by me, instead amendment 01.103, tabled by Senator Stefano Esposito, brings a completely different prediction, because it says of the preceptive conditions to be referred to within the law; it is an absolutely different thing. If in an electoral law - I say it less well than Senator Lo Moro did - the preceptive element of the law itself is stated in Article 1, the electoral law has no meaning. The electoral law in doctrine is recalled as an absolutely particular law because it is not constitutional law, it is not strengthened law, it is not fundamental law because the Constitution is, but it is the main law. Now, that we want to refer to other laws to say that the treatment of electoral law can also be carried out, it seems to me that it has no meaning and that, on the basis of a simple reading, it does not hold up the previous call of the electoral law for the election of Members of the European Parliament. [[Applause from Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u104	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I was confident that your Presidency would solve the problem of how to register to speak. Something we'll have to come up with because it's becoming honestly very unpleasant. We hope and recommend that you also accept the request made by Senator Calderoli to allow the submission, with the signature of eight senators, of a sub-amendment to the Esposito amendment. Mr President, before the explanation of vote on Amendment 01.6 I should like to make a few points. I would also like to say to Senator Stefano Esposito, who inappropriately referred to other premissive amendments, that the latter, of which we are examining one now, restore all regulations or have an absolutely precise regulatory scope; we can immediately read them and challenge anyone to say otherwise. With regard to the precedents that you have also invoked to support the admissibility of the Esposito amendment, Madam President, I went to see the electoral law quoted for the 1979 European elections and it does not seem to me to be a precedent: we are not exactly in this situation. The other precedents you mentioned clearly refer to laws and standards of very different scope. Mr President, the electoral law in our system is particular. It is a law that, among other things, is also made up of very technical and particular norms and, as we always say, often the focus of the electoral law lies in the details. It is enough simply to make a few minor changes on how colleges are attributed and renegotiated - then we will see, for example, the issue of pinball - and we will achieve completely different results. It is therefore clear to everyone that an amendment made only and only generic principles which can then be applied differently cannot be considered admissible. But what worries me, Mr President, is the statement you read earlier, which confirms exactly the question of tricks. In fact, you have stated that the amendments that adhere to those principles and exclude all those that are different will be declared not foreclosed. Since we did not want to discuss the draft electoral law and did not want to close the whole debate process in the Commission, we, Mr President, are in an open situation today, because there is no rapporteur and no report. Therefore, we should be open and free to examine, discuss, vote and perhaps find solutions. I repeat - and I say this to the Minister - that it is entirely legitimate for one to think that the electoral law should be made up of Italicum as it is and it is equally legitimate for us to compare ourselves with the various solutions. But it is no longer acceptable, Mr President, and frankly, I find it insulting that we always want to go on with tricks and tricks. This, in fact, despite the coverage you mentioned of the so-called precedents, is nothing more than a trick! But what should we do, since, among other things, there are video footage of Senator Council and the League? We have to make a movie: "Totò and the electoral law"? [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Bignami]] At this point are we here? I am no more surprised at anything in this House. I repeat: I am no more surprised than nothing, but we would like to have at least the opportunity to express, to demonstrate our thesis, to say that we do not agree with the blocked leader, that we think in another way, that we could make the Provincellum, that another thinks differently; all in a free confrontation. We wanted to do this directly in this House: by subtracting the measure from the debate in the Commission, we wanted to avoid an even more in-depth debate and now we want to take away the possibility of even being able to debate it! You, Mr President, made us do something on Thursday, and since we are serious people, we presented our amendments, while the whole House had gone home to eat! [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-MovX Groups]] We have not even had the opportunity to express and explain why we believe - perhaps we are wrong, but it is our thesis - that the mechanism of election of the elected must be articulated in a certain way and why we believe that, perhaps, that type of majority prize is not compatible with the ballot. We are serious people and we stayed here while everyone went home or elsewhere: we stayed in an empty Chamber to explain all our amendments, when you knew - I am sorry, President, but you also knew, of course - that we would then get to the point that we would not even have the opportunity to make an explanation of vote on those amendments. Don't you think we've really crossed every line of decency? I repeat: we have exceeded all limits to decency, President. Now Senator Stefano Esposito will boast that he was good and that someone suggested to him or that he applied a technique faster to fool people (if he has already boasted). President, once again here you are writing a page that really makes these hours and this work completely useless, because you have simply decided that you have to do it that way and that's all. Innovate, innovate this too (I say this to the Minister): put your trust in this blessed bill and let us close it here! [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups and Senator Campanella]] What's the problem anyway? You have innovated and made an amendment acceptable, which is, in fact, just an agenda; and then the Minister Boschi stands up and says that it puts confidence in the maxi amendment. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Campanella]] Thus, from innovation to innovation, surreptitiously, we move to the direct election of the Premier. What else do we have to do? There's no limit. Since we have now realized that there is no limit, take on your responsibilities. You stand up, Minister, and say that you put your trust in some of the amendments and in this major amendment. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups and Senator Campanella.]] BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Bravo! CARDINALI (PD). Stop! DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). We've seen everything by now. Don't worry, we are sure that the presidency of this Senate will be able to say that that procedure would also be absolutely legitimate. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S, LN-Aut, Senators Bignami, Campanella, Mussini and Orellana Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u107	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I disagree with Mrs De Petris. I think that a proposal in this direction does not help the peaceful debate on such an important law as the electoral law. Instead, I agree with Senator Calderoli's proposal, which aims to find a regular and transparent, as well as objective, balance between a forced force or a series of forces that are proposed not by the Government, but by this House. As I said before in my speech, a possibility is given to what has become the instrument of beheading (in this case not by ISIS, but by Senator Stefano Esposito) of most of the amendments that precisely debate and discuss the technical and procedural issues of the electoral law. We know that it is in detail that the outcome of an electoral law is formed; perhaps we can all share the principles but then we can have different effects depending on the small changes. But those of Senator Stefano Esposito are not minor changes, but they are great stated intentions and great issues that pertain to the whole of the electoral law. I would ask you then to consider Senator Calderoli's request, Madam President, also for the hygiene of this debate, which, as you can see, cannot go on. If, on the other hand, there were the opportunity, in an hour or two (what you think, Madam President), to propose to Senator Stefano Esposito some changes and perhaps bring them to the attention of the whole House and if this were to determine the effect that Senator Calderoli announced, that is to say the withdrawal of a group from most of the amendments, I believe that this would be acceptable to everyone, in the context of a correct and transparent path under the eyes of all Italians.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u110	D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). Madam President, this is not about wanting to impose on a majority the views of a minority; this is about safeguarding what little decency we have left and the very function of a parliamentary democracy. I am old enough to remember the Geremiads and the locutions with which, from De Gasperi onwards, it has always been said that the electoral law and the rules of the game could not be transgressed. For the truth, in the fifties Alcide De Gasperi proposed a law that the bieco Togliatti called "law scam" (Stalinist beecho, sorry Spousetti). It was a law that awarded a majority prize, Minister Boschi, to those who would have 50% plus one of the votes, i.e. give a prize to a majority that was already the electoral majority. Instead, you bring us, in your conception of the Espositum, a law that makes a minority a majority through a prize. In fact, if it is true, that with the Espositum, 40% (of that 60% who will go to vote) takes everything, we are - just multiply - at about 23-24 percent of those entitled to vote. If this seems to you to be a good rule to determine who is to command the quadrille in Italy, it does not seem to me that we are in the wake of democracy. In the same way, it seems to me that there is another unconfessed desire that with the Renzi Government has always punctually presented itself: the desire to set a date and go to that date, beyond any reasonableness, for reasons that are unconfessed and unconfessible. It's kind of what my party asks me to do: make an act of faith. You want an act of faith from Parliament because with the Espositum, more or less swindledly presented - I claim the roots of Neapolitan intelligence in Stefano Esposito in this facundia, in his cleverness elevated to intelligence - you want to silence even those who would like to talk about this topic. So, do some of this. Excuse me, I speak in Neapolitan; my colleague Stefano Esposito understands why we say that he is Neapolitan when he introduces the amendments and is Turinese when he writes them, because he writes them in Italian. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Campanella. Laughter]] Make a nice decree-law. Senator Paolo Romani is part of the majority, as I read about this ANSA; so we are also in the table set up. Make a fine decree-law, appoint an extraordinary commissioner in the person of the Carabinieri Armed Chief General and get rid of the whole Parliament and the parliamentarians. You find him a Tejero (what the hell, yet, he was a lieutenant colonel), a subordinate of the Forces of Order who comes in here and says that democracy is a nuisance? [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups and Senators Campanella and Simeoni]] You see, democracy is essentially the ability to listen to people who don't think like you. If you have this rushing, temporal, chronological idea of democracy, for which the Piedmontese-Napoletan cleverness of Stefano Esposito is enough to do justice to the parliamentary debate, you no longer call us, because, dear friends, we should do, those who do not think like you, the Aventine, as did in the distant years of the crime Matteotti parliamentarians to whom fascism prevented the word, prevented being able to determine. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups and Senators Campanella and Simeoni]] Yours becomes a formal democracy: the democracy of pieces of paper and cunning; it becomes a device; it becomes the arcane empires of Tacitus, President. The three capes: salus publica (we do it for the health of the people); bonum publicum (we do it for the good of the people), and then the most tearful of the capes, what you put on your shoulders, intent, good intentions, and you screw us with any Esposito! This isn't right! [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups and Senators Campanella and Simeoni]] This place, even with all the respect that goes to Senator Stefano Esposito, that I do not believe has the stigmata or the stature of Metternich, because, to the truth, to the eye and cross seems more Napoleon [[Laughter]] , dear friends, decide: even the peaceable and very nice Gotor has become Attila, because he says something that is accessible to everyone, even to a fool like me [[Illarity from the LN-Aut Group]] , i.e. that an electoral system in which the number of nominations is greater than that of the elected is a fetish and an offense to democracy. [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Misto-MovX Groups and Senators Campanella and Simeoni.]] You see, this is not about making an act of faith to see who is more friend of Verdini (who is my best friend on a personal level), here it is not a legend, but we are talking about the electoral system that must allow the Italian people, for the next ten to fifteen years, to determine who will command this shack that is called Italy, and it is not with the acts of faith and the cunning that you can do. Of course, my mind is tetragonal, I don't see the magnificent and progressive fates of Forza Italia, because I am a kind of mole and I see at one inch. Look behind you, though, dear friends, because voting for this crap means that we will have a great future behind us as a party of liberals and moderates in Italy. [[Applause from the LAG groups (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI), FI-PdL XVII, M5S, LN-Aut, Misto-MovX and Senator Campanella. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u111	Colleagues, I would like to acknowledge to Senator De Petris that I have reminded him of an important fact and to give credit, as a Presidency, to all the senators and senators who stayed here last week to explain the amendments. As further clarification, again to Senator Ferrara and Senator De Petris, I also read the second paragraph of Law No 18, which referred to what I read earlier, namely: The allocation of seats between the competing lists shall be made on a proportional basis, in accordance with the procedures laid down in the following Articles... Here too, therefore, I wanted to make this clear. Senator Calderoli, being really a great expert in the regulations of the Senate, of which he is also for many years Vice President, knows very well that paragraph 5 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, on the possibility of submitting sub-amendments in the Chamber - I say it only for the memory of all - is disapplied by at least four legislatures, but that does not mean that there is. [[Senator Calderoli's comments.]] I just wanted to remind you that this does not mean that there is, but it is disenforced by four legislatures. In view of this request, which I consider to be a point of order, I would ask the House to give its opinion in accordance with Rule 92 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, you have already explained when you put forward your proposal. I therefore put to the vote Senator Calderoli's proposal, as provided for in Rule 92 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. [[Comments from Senators Calderoli, Crimes and Endrizzi.]] Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). No! CRIMI (M5S). One per group can intervene! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have already explained why you have already presented the proposal. MARTELLI (M5S). No! ENDRIZZI (M5S). You can't! BULGARRELLI (M5S). Exactly the same as Grasso! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have already spoken on this point and supported this view. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] It's not approved. [[Ironic applause from Senator Morra.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote on amendment 01.6 with the Government's opinion against it. [[Numerous Senators of the M5S and LN-Aut Groups point out that they want to intervene.]] Is this for an explanation of vote? You've already done it. Is it to ask for electronic voting? I ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. [[Lively protests from the M5S and LN-Aut groups. The request is supported.]] There is support for electronic voting and this applies to all the premissive amendments. Okay? I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.6 tabled by Senators Calderoli and Bisinella. [[The vote will be taken at the next voting time. Live comments and protests from the M5S and LN-Aut groups. A pen is launched from the benches of the LN-Aut Group at the address of the Presidency.]] Stop, colleagues, I'll cancel the vote... Who threw a pen at the Presidency? [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] I would just like to know the name of who threw a pen at the Presidency, because I do not think it is useful and correct. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u114	Is your explanation of vote on Amendment 01.6? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, another Member will speak in an explanation of vote. I would just like to point out that we are discussing a procedural issue on which no opinion has been expressed by the Government, while you said that the Government is against it without even hearing it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u115	No, Senator Calderoli, I had already come to the vote on the amendment. I am sorry, it was not on the procedural issue, because I had already moved on to the vote on amendment 01.6 on which the Government had expressed its opposition at the beginning of the sitting. ENDRIZZI (M5S). The Government has not given its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u118	Do you speak in an explanation of vote on Amendment 01.6? CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for some order, otherwise we do not understand what we are voting on. You had already put Amendment 01.6 to the vote and there had been a number of speeches: in fact, Senator Endrizzi had spoken in an explanation of vote. When you proposed to put Senator Calderoli's proposal to the vote, you should have allowed the explanation of vote, as you were asked, in accordance with the same article as you mentioned. You interpreted the statements that were being made on Amendment 01.6 as statements on that vote. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]] Then if someone has freely gone to all his considerations, he has done so with right to express his reasons for the vote. But Senator Endrizzi also made it clear what we were doing. Its proposal only becomes a proposal for a vote and must be submitted to the Rules of Procedure, not before. So you cannot interpret the previous speeches as explanations of vote. That's just to make it clear. We would now like to speak in an explanation of vote on Amendment 01.6 if we are in the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u119	We are voting on amendment 01.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u120	CRIMI (M5S). I therefore ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, Senator Calderoli's amendment 01.6 would like to restore the status quo by reporting, in the event of early elections and until constitutional reform, the application of Mattarellum, if I am not mistaken. That's the ratio of the norm. Unfortunately, today we have to say no to Senator Calderoli and his amendment, that perhaps we would vote at other times, that is, when we were at the early stage of this electoral law process and we said that any electoral law would go well, however constitutionally supported by an experience and that it has never been dismissed by the Constitutional Court. Today, however, we find ourselves, at least from our point of view, having an electoral law that is our proposal and that has been voted with the citizens, and it is a proportional system, totally distant from the Mattarellum system and that of the unitary. That is why, I repeat, today despite me, because on other occasions we would also have voted in favour, in order to give the country a sound electoral law that is not constitutionally flawed, we have to vote no to this amendment. I say this right to clarify the reasons for our vote, since on this matter, particularly on Mattarellum, there have often been speculations on the part of colleagues in the Democratic Party, particularly in the House of Deputies. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u123	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, it is recognized when there is tension in a House, and when there is tension it means that there is interest also from those who do not normally participate in the work of this House. There is an interest, generally speaking, when politics, rather than the citizens, addresses itself: not for those who make politics, but for those who make politics. This is the fate of electoral laws. I would like to declare my Group abstaining from voting on this amendment for several reasons, but also to remind us all of the content of Article 1 of the Constitution, which reads: Sovereignty belongs to the people and when it is said 'to the people', Madam President, it is not said to a part of the people, it is not said to a minority of the people, it is not said to some of the people, but it is said to the whole of the Italian population, to the one that counts over 60 million people and I speak of people. That is why, when we also discuss electoral law, we should be careful for politicians and not politicians. And even when we pay attention to politicians, we must be careful who we turn to, because when we make electoral laws and someone, a majority has the responsibility to propose it, it is not always functional to what that majority has thought. And sometimes surprises come and what comes is very different from what you expect. And that is why, Madam President, today's debate and also the way in which it takes place will be written in the history of this country and each of us will have to deal with that story, with the contents and effects of this measure. I also want to focus on a segment of this provision, which is known to all as the safeguard rule. Here there is a well-written safeguard rule, it is not a safeguard rule such as that found in other amendments, which determines when you can go to vote. I have already said this in other circumstances: to determine from what date one can go to vote in case of early dissolution of the Chambers is a faculty of the President of the Republic, of what we still have to vote and cannot be expropriated either from this, or from the other House, and much less expropriated by the Government. But to say 'in the darkest of the application' of the provision that we are discussing and 'until the constitutional reform in which Parliament is engaged is in force' is intelligent; it does not prevent the Head of State from exercising a power, it links the implementation of an electoral provision to the completion of the ongoing institutional reform process. I wonder, why can't you write something right? Why can we not accept something well written, even if it comes from the opposition, even if it comes from colleagues of the League, even if it comes from colleagues of the Mixed Left Group, ecology and freedom? But why do we have to write rules, at this stage in Parliament's history, which are also pitiful from the point of view of logic, of the correct use of writing? But are we really obliged to make bad figures with our fellow citizens, with the Italian people, the one against whom we should perform the best possible function, that of representation and legislative? I read with great passion the Italian Constitution, because it was written by people who believed in what they did, who had suffered tyranny, who were beginning to taste freedom and thought of the new generations, their children, their grandchildren, to guarantee them the rights they had won with blood. Is it possible that this memory will disperse these days? Is it possible that there is no attention that we, on the other hand, always owe to that constitutional dictation and its value? But we have to write everything in a dark corner, we have to make it pass through unknown channels, in ambiguous relationships with whom should we collect the last hour's amendment? But do we necessarily have to behave worse than we do? Do we have to be, once again, a bad example for our country? I don't think so, Madam President. I wonder what is the cynical spirit that helps us to do things that we would not do, rather that we reprove others and that we have rebuked others repeatedly when they have done them. What is this cynicism that is taking us? I hope, indeed, that those who know where we are going to end up have calculated all the risks well because perhaps they did not and the surprises that will come will be tragic for the country. This is a country that is saved only if it passes through the convinced participation of all. If it continues to create divisions, this is a country that will not be saved and whoever brings it into the condition of division will be responsible for this tragedy. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni]] This is a wretched country that has no breath. It is not an invention: it is written in all data. You can't see the sun at the end of the tunnel. But do we really think that, dividing and dividing around even the simplest formulations, the clearest objectives, we will be able to make the contribution that we must give to this country to raise itself and activate a ruling class able to solve the problems of the crisis? Is that really what we think? I don't think so, and since we don't think so, that's the big deal. I do not blame those who use tricks for the fact that they use tricks; I reproach those who use tricks because they have not understood what surely difficult consequences for this country is going to meet through this path, without knowing who is carrying along. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u126	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, in the presumption of making an intervention to safeguard the parliamentary institution and, therefore, the Senate, Senator Calderoli had made a reference under Rule 100 (5) of the Rules of Procedure which draws exclusive and intangible prerogatives of the President of the Senate, providing that the President "may" allow, when the opportunity arises, the submission of amendments outside the specific cases indicated. You understood the point of order as a point of order, but Senator Calderoli did not make a point of order, but, according to an Rule of the Rules of Procedure, asked you if you could table an amendment. You have understood this as a point of order, even if, in so doing, you should have said, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Rule 92, that you intended to do so and, therefore, to opt between the two procedures, allowing either an intervention against and one in favour, or admitting the intervention of one member per Group. I therefore believe that you, Mr President, have not understood this in this respect, since you have not acted in the form of a ritual. But something a little more serious has happened, Mr President: you have called for the vote under paragraph 3, which means that you have made an exclusive prerogative of the President subject to a vote in the Chamber. What could happen later? Following a request or an event presented or assessed pursuant to paragraph 5 of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure, on the assumption that it is possible to have a majority vote on that proposal or on that event, the exclusive prerogative of the President may be expounded with the request for a vote of the Chamber. In this way, the President's third-party and autonomy, according to this precedent, would be affected. I would ask you, Mr President, to consider the precedent as an exceptional one, because in this case the autonomy and third party, the authority and prerogatives of the Senate Parliamentary Assembly would be affected. What I ask you very briefly, Mr President, is that the Rules of Procedure should be handled carefully: please do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u129	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to say that, in a good way, the Senators of Trentino can say that they have never had the criticism that they may have had in this House perhaps other senators recently or, better, since 2001. For Trentino, in fact - the same goes for Valle D'Aosta, which represents a college in itself - one never wanted to abandon the famous Mattarellum. It is a system that, first of all, goes in the direction of surely rewarding the governability, given the division into one-name colleges, but giving that space or right of forum which is represented by 25% of the seats that, apart from those who win in the one-name colleges, are normally attributed to the representatives of the lists that have not won in the one-name colleges. It is a system that Trentino has jealously preserved until today and, as long as it remains the Senate, probably no one would ever dream of going to touch this norm for Trentino. Mr Calderoli said that, since we are sailing in fog and fog here, we have even entered a swamp, not knowing how and we will get out of it, it would be good to have safeguards. Moreover, since the Government has not been able to guarantee that if it were to vote tomorrow morning, it is certain that the norm to be referred to will be the Consultellum, this amendment proposes, badly, that it actually has an electoral lifesaver. Since the Consultellum has put the Porcellum into thin air and since, having to vote, the risk is that the Consultellum is not even immediately applicable, the text therefore proposes to exhume the last electoral law that all in all has also given proof of functionality. Therefore, on our part, and I believe on the part of the entire Senate Chamber, there should be a thank you to a colleague who carefully, pulsating what would then happen and all the eventualities that could happen from here to the end of the legislature, realized that we would find ourselves in a so-called limp duck phase and maybe we would not even have a law that allows the government to govern. Let me say, Madam President, what kind of cul de sac you have found yourself in, or probably even got dragged into. Its predecessor, President Grasso, called to other functions, alas, had to admit that a great mess was made, in the sense that we are at a stage where the most important law, the one that is most in the spotlight in this legislature, is born in a dramatic way, arrives in the Chamber without a report, without rapporteurs, without a text drawn up at a stage of inquiry by the competent Commission. This meant that it was no longer clear what procedures to adopt, to the point that the famous complaint was born about who deposited the amendments and within what time; the League had certainly done so by 8 p.m. and probably - there are documents - Mr Esposito did not do so in those times, but it was put back in time by the same President Grasso, who had to admit that there is no point of law - and there could also close the game - no possibility of amending amendments by other colleagues. If President Grasso had closed the game in this way, no one could have claimed the possibility, the power, the right to amend an amendment by a colleague, but only those of the Government could have been amended. However, since there was no longer a Commission text, given that the Government had given up (at this point leave us some malice in thinking that we also wanted to choose this path), President Grasso had to say something like this: let us admit that a number of amendments, even though signed by colleagues, can refer to the majority, ergo, at this very particular stage, to the Government; so let us open the time to amend; at this point he writes a letter from the Presidency, saying that certain amendments can be amended. This is already a mistake, because they were proposed amendments made by colleagues. However, I wonder why, if this was the case, all the amendments tabled by colleagues who were deemed to be aliases signed by the Government did not include the only real one that would have upset the possibility of holding a debate and voting on other amendments? The Gotor amendment, for example, does not say anything else (and I remember that we also give the opportunity to vote on amendment 01.6) that it is not right (and the whole House should think so) that, since this Parliament is called upon to write a new electoral law (because here we are all going by nominations, except for the elected members of the Valle d'Aosta and Trentino), the citizen, the voter, should feel deprived of the possibility of choosing his own representatives. Ergo, correcting, at least we ensure that the majority is elected by the citizens, leaving a sort of list to the parties, which can bring their faithful. The Mattarellum says exactly this: let us have the overwhelming majority (75%) elected by the citizens of Parliament in the colleges and let the parties have the remaining proportional share of 25%. Mr Calderoli's amendment is re-introduced, even subtly, what he wanted to throw out of the window. [[Comments of Senator Calderoli]] Not exactly in a sneaky way, Senator Calderoli, but here we are going forward with tail taps, or with smart little ones. The problem is that in this House we were used to making laws in another method, very dialectical, and sometimes even with great clashes. But the clever ones had never entered into the practice of these parliamentary classrooms. Today, however, we can say that this House continues and goes on with tailstrokes and smart strokes. To the majority colleagues, however, who will have the fate of this law in hand, we remind them that, above all, electoral laws must serve to give the country governability; they must not serve contingently to a party to see themselves recognized as a prize and a greater political power. As, in fact, people fatten and lose weight in life, so the electorate makes the parties fatter or slim down. And when a party makes a custom-made dress, that is, a custom-made electoral law, then it risks that that dress no longer works for itself. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u132	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, in my explanation of vote, of course of a personal nature, I would like to explain to the House concerned in this debate and to Senator Calderoli, the first signatory of this text, that the return to Mattarellum is not the solution and that it does not help us, as I said in my previous speech, to contribute to a peaceful debate. This debate, in my opinion, remains within and within a path that has fixed cardinal points, first of all, the ruling of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, it is with respect to that text with our observations, our debate and also with the respect and homage that we owe to a very strong ruling of the Constitutional Court, we are obliged to express our opinion and to render to the Italians, in the transparency of the House, the opinion that this House has, majority and opposition, on the text indicated by the Court's ruling. But the majority and also the opposition have an obligation to find a solution that, if it considers it alternative and different, can be so, proposing it to the parliamentary debate and to the attention of the Italians, to the clear and in the light of a debate where everyone assumes responsibility for what he says and knows what he votes, because it is written on the card of the Senate in this case. That is why I would like to declare my abstention vote - which we know in the Senate what value it is - to a proposal that helps the debate but does not lead us in the right direction. I would therefore like to suggest to Senator Calderoli, before this vote takes place, not to fuel this possible speculation and I would ask Senator Calderoli to perhaps review whether this should be an amendment or something else.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u133	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u135	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Madam President, I declare the vote by myself and my colleagues with whom I coordinated on the amendment by Senator Calderoli not before I made a couple of considerations: the first is on Mattarellum, which was not free from defects, but which had characteristics that both the law that followed it and the one that is proposed to us now maybe they had. In fact, it gave the elector the real possibility to choose their elected candidate, the candidate to be voted on, even if all this took place within the framework of a choice that was placed to them by the parties that, I remember, chose the colleges according to the candidate they were supposed to elect. I would also like to make a comment on the fact that Mr Calderoli correctly took the opportunity not to indicate a fixed date, but a logical deadline within which to use this electoral system. I remind everyone that the law we are voting on is only related to the electoral system of the House. If, therefore, as we hope, constitutional reforms, which we consider to be liberticidal, were not to be carried out, we would find ourselves with two electoral systems absolutely unbalanced for one and the other House. Therefore, to put as a suspensive condition not a fixed term, but the approval of the reforms and to put the Mattarellum in the meantime as an electoral system to be used - among other things, I wonder how the colleagues of the Democratic Party, who have always preferred the single college, can turn their backs on this hypothesis - are choices that honor Parliament as a place of reflection, as a place where constructive hypotheses can be expressed, proposed and manifested, and not as, as I said earlier, a House ratifying the king's will because in this way the current President of the Council is acting. That is why we will not abstain and vote in favour of Senator Calderoli's amendment. [[Applause from the Mixed ILC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u138	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I speak to declare my abstention vote on Senator Calderoli's amendment. There is my total agreement on the premise of the amendment. Senator Calderoli has considered regulating the electoral law and predicting how to vote in the period prior to the approval of the amendment of Title I of Part II of the Constitution. Well, how did you do it in the disposition part? I say I don't like terms like Mattarellum or Consultellum, which come from the media. I would like to speak in the Chamber with the names of the legal provisions. The Unique Text No. 361 of 1957 and the Unique Text No. 533 of 1993 have been exhumed: two Unique Texts regulating the electoral law before the entry into force of Law No. 270 of 21 December 2005. So we go in a direction totally different from the decision of the Constitutional Court, which declared - yes - the constitutional illegitimacy of some rules of electoral law but which has left, however, all the plant in force. Therefore, at the time of voting before the electoral law was passed and before the amendment of Title I of Part II of the Constitution, it is clear that the most technically correct solution would be to vote in accordance with the current regional law, with the corrections that the Constitutional Court intended to make, declaring the illegality of certain rules of it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u141	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, we do not proceed to the vote because, having listened to the debate that took place and to strengthen the agenda, which has been adopted, which finally introduces the Consultellum, I believe that we should withdraw amendment 0.16 and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u142	It's 8:30, Senator Calderoli. I call on the Government representative to comment on the agenda. Mr Boschi, Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament. The opinion was also opposed to the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Calderoli, do you insist on voting? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I do not insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u143	I inform you that the Conference of Leaders is convened.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u144	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-380.ana.u145	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 21 January, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.30 p.m.
