ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u4	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u10	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I have just received a letter from President Grasso on the fact that yesterday I asked, as I am entitled to do as Chairman of the Group, for a senator of my Group to be moved to the Commission, that is, I moved Senator Mussini from the Justice Committee to the Education Committee. President Grasso told me that, in his view, in the light of the interpretation of Rule 21 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, the move of Senator Mussini to 7th Commission cannot be taken into account, which has therefore been blocked and will not be possible, so that the Presidency can ensure that the distribution of senators takes place in the necessary respect for the consistency relations between the majority and opposition groups. Mr President, perhaps it is good for me to read here aloud the members of the 7th Commission, because obviously President Grasso must have decided that Senator Di Maggio is no longer a majority or that - I hear you well - it is Senator D'Onghia, State Secretary for Education who no longer belongs to the majority, otherwise the accounts do not come back here. The displacement of Senator Mussini would in fact bring exactly to twelve the number of representatives of the oppositions, taking as good as possible the fact that the Mixed Group can be considered tout court an opposition group even if, as you know, President, depending on the needs related to the accounts for the bicameral commissions, it is decided once in a while if the Mixed Group is majority or opposition. However, even taking good account of the fact that the Mixed Group is an opposition group, of which, among other things, are also majority senators, the accounts are very clear: within the 7th Commission we have exactly fourteen representatives of the majority, so we are talking about a relationship that is still absolutely in line (in fact, perhaps somewhat overrated) with respect to those that are the relations in this House between majority and opposition, and this is also true in other Commissions: it is the case, for example, of the Commission Justice - I have the numbers here - where there is the same ratio of fourteen to twelve. From this point of view, therefore, I find it absolutely very serious: President Grasso, in writing his reply, was not influenced by the careful reading of the Rules of Procedure, but perhaps by other considerations. I would, however, like to read here the members of the Education Commission and then you will tell me whether the senators I will indicate are majority or opposition. Is President Marcucci majority or opposition? And we're at one. Then there are the Vice Presidents: Senator Sibilia is of Forza Italia, therefore opposition, and we are therefore one by one. Then there is Senator Bocchino, the other vice president, who belongs to the Mixed Group: always according to the reasoning I developed earlier, do we want to consider it opposition? All right, so we're two opposition representatives. As for the senators secretary, Marco Marin, of Forza Italia, then of the opposition, and Michela Montevecchi, of the majority, then the two oppositions... [[Comments from the M5S Group]] I'm kidding, colleagues, I wasn't talking about Senator Montevecchi, I was talking about Senator Marin.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u11	Senator De Petris, no one here is willing to joke.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u12	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). As for the other members, we have Senator Blund, of the opposition, Senator Centinario, also of the opposition, Senator Franco Conte of the People's Area Group: Popular Area what is it, opposition or majority? Majority, count it, then. Then there is Senator Di Giorgi, of the majority, and Senator Di Maggio, who permanently replaces State Secretary Angela D'Onghia and who was practically considered by the President representative of the majority, since as you know, President, usually the members of the Government are replaced by people of the same Group, by majority. I too replaced Deputy Minister Della Vedova, who is part of my Group, with a member of my Group who is certainly a majority, namely Senator Margiotta; in fairness and in practice, I would never have permanently replaced a member of the Government with a member of the opposition. So redo the accounts, because they are correct: the ratio of force between majority and opposition within the 7th Commission, even with the move of Senator Mussini, is exactly fourteen to twelve. The problems - you know better than I do - are others, but they were not to be part of the assessments of the President of the Senate, who should never have allowed himself to decide how the discussion could have developed within the 7th Commission. Furthermore, the fact that there are problems within the majority party does not concern either the President of the Senate or the choices that a group makes by moving a senator from one Commission to another. The relationship of force is exactly the same, as in the Justice Commission: go to check, we can quote other Commissions here. We're talking about a 14-12 report. I find once again very serious the fact that, despite the fact that the bill on the school did not even arrive in the Senate, maybe it will happen in an hour or two, already yesterday evening were in action unfair maneuvers (which once again violate the Rules) to try to put the patches, having seen that the House's bill of the numbers favoring the reform was perhaps not so positive. I call on everyone to respect the Rules of Procedure. The proportion of relations between the majority and the opposition has not been altered, and it is even more serious that the President of the Senate (now went abroad, but perhaps it would have been better if he had stayed here) enters with a tense leg, even before the debate begins in this branch of Parliament, so in part, on the subject of school reform, assuming - gravely - the responsibility of deciding him that Senator Di Maggio, who replaces a Undersecretary, had to be moved from office to the opposition. In my opinion, therefore, it is good that the Offices redo the accounts and that the President of the Senate regards the Rules well and above all adhere exactly to the majority groups and opposition groups that formally support or oppose the Government. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, Mixed-MovX and Mixed-ILC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u13	Colleagues, I would first like to reply to Senator De Petris, then one representative per Group will be able to speak, as is foreseen in the case of a point of order. I would like to remind all my colleagues, and first of all to Senator De Petris, that the question you have raised has already been addressed in the past and I would remind you that at its meeting on 11 October 2011, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure unanimously expressed the following opinion: Article 21 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, according to which the distribution of "overlords" in each permanent Commission must be carried out in such a way as to reflect the proportion existing in the Assembly among all parliamentary groups, is also interpreted in the light of the necessary respect for the relations of consistency between the majority and opposition groups; 2) with reference to the Mixed Group - which Senator De Petris represents - and to the other Groups to which Senators belong, both by majority and by opposition, the nomination proposals must ensure the balanced distribution of the members of each Group in the Commission, in compliance with the interpretative criterion set out in the first 1 of this opinion; 3. the President, in accordance with the power conferred on him by Rule 21 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, considers that the Group's proposals are in line with the principle set out in point 1 of this opinion. The President then distributes the "Super-Senators" in the Commissions, giving notice also in the short way to the Presidents of the Groups and the Commissions concerned before any other communication. The presidents of the groups may make alternative proposals, in accordance with the criteria set out in point 1 of this opinion, by the next meeting of the Commission, for the final delivery of the Presidency; 4. the President may exercise the power deriving from Article 21 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, in the manner set out in paragraph 3 of this Opinion, whenever changes occur in the number and composition of the parliamentary groups adversely affect, through the distribution of the "Excessors" in each Commission, the proportion existing in the Assembly between the parliamentary groups with regard to their consistency and the relations between majority and opposition. In summary, the Rules of Procedure confer on the Groups the power to designate their representatives in the individual standing committees and on the basis of the proposals of the respective groups, the power to distribute the so-called surplus senators in accordance with the principles set out in the above-mentioned opinion. Therefore, in accordance with the provisions of point 4 of the same opinion, the President of the Senate, with reference to the changes in the standing committees announced yesterday by the President of the Misto Group, invited the same President De Petris to make an alternative proposal with regard to the 7th Standing Commission, in order to enable the Presidency to ensure that the distribution of so-called surplus senators takes place in the necessary respect for the consistency relations between the majority and opposition groups. So this criterion and this interpretation... DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I wasn't invited by anyone! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator De Petris, you've already spoken. I didn't interrupt her and I listened to her. I am giving you the Presidency's position, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure and on the basis of the interpretative opinion of these rules adopted unanimously by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and Petitions. [[Senator De Petris' comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u16	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I believe that Senator De Petris would have the right to speak and I would prefer to speak after you. If, however, you feel that you have no option, then I will speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You step in. First we listen to the opinions of others, as well as that of Senator De Petris. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I listened carefully to what Senator De Petris said and then what you said, Mr President, and it seems to me that what you said does not go beyond what President De Petris said in any way. Either Senator De Petris has given us false numbers or names, and I don't think so, or things are perfectly in line with that opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that you have amply quoted. We all know that in this House, when it comes to expressing the vote of confidence, that is, when it comes to consecrating those of the majority and those of the opposition, the majority comes, at best, perhaps to 170 votes. As a result, those who are not of the majority are 150: the accounts are very simple. So the 170 to 150 report is less favourable than the 14 to 12 report that is being created in the Commission: this is a rather simple mathematics, despite the reform of the school. Obviously, it is either as Senator De Petris says, and so the Presidency has decided that some majority group senators are not of the majority, or the numbers are exactly such as to allow the Mixed Group to have that number of senators in the 7th Commission. You cannot always use the technique of listening and answering by saying something else, which is not what you, President Lanzillotta, but others, indeed another, who often sits in that chair, does. If it really has happened that the Presidency has decided to consider, perhaps on the basis of personal statements made, I do not know where, that some senator who belongs to majority groups, who as a group and as a single person has always voted for trust, is no longer the majority, then here we are still going one step beyond those little decent replacements in the Commission, which have also occurred in the other branch of Parliament in a wider way than what has happened here. We have a further violation of Article 67 of the Constitution, as well as a minimum of decency in coexistence that should be fruitful and collaborative, in compliance with the rules that should be in this institution. I hope the answers are very convincing, because I do not know what alternative proposal President De Petris can make: he does not assign the senator to the Committee on Culture and assign it to the Commission on Foreign Affairs, so it does not disturb? I don't think that's possible. Attention, because here, of forcing into forcing (and sometimes more than forcing it was an open and brazen violation of the Rules of Procedure), we arrive at a very problematic situation. Remember also, colleagues in the majority, that you will not always be in the majority; you may find yourself in opposition to a 5 Star Movement Government and then there would be nothing more to add to what has already been done to have a situation in which it is no longer possible to exercise the functions of the opposition. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u19	DI MAY (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Madam President, it is quite frankly a déjà vu. Here we are always thinking about the positions that the President of the Senate takes on his own, which I believe are always in the beehive of the arbitrariness rather than in that of the decisions according to the Rules of Procedure. I have no reason to doubt what Senator De Petris said this morning in this House, and I believe that this may at least suggest that we are on the eve of those removals that we have already witnessed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. If this is a preventative way of pointing out that there will also be a resolution in the Education Commission shortly, I believe that perhaps this House should take note of the continuing violations of the Rules of Procedure that the President of the Senate continues to do. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In case it is an addition, not a removal.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u22	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, let me make a comment on Senator Malan's speech. Senator Malan reminded us that we can all be majority and opposition. In fact, I have been in opposition for many years and I remember Senator Malan's positions well during the long periods in which he was a part of the majority, so his purpose is about me, but it is also about what his personal political life was in Parliament during the long years in which he was a part of the majority. I would like to make political and regulatory considerations about Senator De Petris' speech. Politically speaking, because the issue we are talking about clearly also has specific political implications. It is very clear to me - and I believe it is clear to the whole House and also to Senators Di Maggio and Malan - what is the objective of Senator De Petris. Senator De Petris aims to overthrow the relationship between majority and opposition in the 7th Commission and has operated... [[Comments of Senator Mussini]] Let me talk. You can talk after me and say whatever you want. Let me talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u23	Sorry, colleagues, talk one at a time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u24	ZANDA (PD). There is an element of civilization in Parliament, without which it cannot work, so let me speak and do not interrupt me with comments that I cannot even understand why they are being made while I am speaking. As I said, Senator De Petris wants to overthrow the majority in a Commission. This is its objective and it is the only reason why it can explain the request for a change in the composition of the 7th Commission made by the President of the Mixed Group on the night before the vote on the timetable for school reform. So I would like to say the following: Senator Malan stressed the need for fairness between the parliamentary groups and in parliamentary work, and it is a fair point of emphasis, because Parliament works, of course, with the observance of the Rules of Procedure, but it also works with the linearity of relations between us. The relationships between us are linear when our behaviors are open and easy to interpret. I believe that - regardless of the substance, on which I will then say a few words, from the regulatory point of view - this linearity is not there when the Mixed Group - and the Mixed Group - let me say something about politics, which has only the objective of publicly telling the House what is the positive prejudice we have towards the Mixed Group and, personally, towards Senator De Petris, who is in Parliament with the votes of the Democratic Party [[Vivid comments by Senators De Petris and Petraglia]] and was elected President of the Mixed Group... DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). You took the majority by our votes! ZANDA (PD). You don't want me to say... [[Senator De Petris' comments.]] You don't want me to say what I'm about to say, but I'll say it anyway! And she was elected President of the Mixed Group because, generously, three Senators of the Democratic Party gave the numbers to the Group, to be formed and elected. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi.]] This is the reality of the situation and I say this only to remind us of our positive prejudice towards Senator De Petris. Look, our parliamentary life... [[Comments from the Mixed-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u25	Colleagues, let Senator Zanda speak. Everyone has the right to speak and to speak. [[Comments of Senator De Petris]] Excuse me, Senator De Petris, you have expressed your appreciation that I have not been interrupted. Please, Senator Zanda, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u26	Mr President, Parliament has rules. Without complying with these rules, Parliament cannot fail to say that it is working, but it cannot survive. In Parliaments and in the Italian Parliament, according to our Constitution and our Regulations, the referee of parliamentary life and interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is the President of the Senate. The President of the Chamber is the referee of the proceedings of the Chamber of Deputies and the President of the Senate is the referee of the Senate's proceedings. I didn't happen to have visions that coincide with those of the Senate President, but I've always respected them and I've always invited the Democratic Party Group to respect them. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] But there is another pillar of parliamentary life... President, I cannot be forced to scream to make you listen. Frankly, it does not seem possible to me: I am doing political things and I feel I have the right to do so. There is another pillar of our parliamentary life, which is the relationship between majority and opposition. The majority rule is the only rule that can allow Parliaments to decide and it is necessary that this rule sees the coincidence between the Assembly and the Commissions in the relationship between majority and opposition. If there were a different majority in the Commission than in this House, Parliament would be unable to decide: it would not have the opportunity to play its role. To touch the relationship between majority and opposition with night moves, to change the composition of the Commissions, is a serious injury to the relationship between majority and opposition, which, in essence, in parliamentary life, is the only bastion of the democratic rule. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi.]] CRIMI (M5S). I'm asking to talk. [[Senator Mineo points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u27	You have the right to do so. Senator Mineo, apart from the fact that you have asked for the floor a long time later, I do not, however, have the right to speak because we are on a point of order, where one speaker per group may speak. Senator Zanda spoke for the Democratic Party; Senator Mussini will be able to speak for the Mixed Group, because Senator De Petris asked the question. These are the rules of Parliament, which is organized by Groups. [[Comments of Senator Mineo]] Please, Senator Crimes. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Shame on you, make him talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u28	Madam President, allow me first of all to say that all senators can make points of order, not just one per group. I say that as a matter of fact, so I believe that if others wanted to speak on a point of order, they could do so. I would simply like to say that Senator Zanda today has just demonstrated the lowest level of Italian politics. [[Applause from the M5S and Misto-SEL Groups and Senator Mussini]] He put it in black and white: I think it will be to be used in school books and academic essays to say what the Italian Parliament is. When he says that generously three PD senators went to compose the Mixed Group to allow the birth of the Mixed Group and the election of the De Petris... MORONESE (M5S). It's a scam. CRIMI (M5S). It was thanks to the votes of SEL that this majority was taken. This is what happens in Parliament in the first few days and today President Zanda has put it in black and white. Let us all be clear what is happening in Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But then the hypocrisy of talking about respect for the Rules of Procedure, linearity and collaboration: are we kidding? President Zanda, what are we talking about? About what you did nighttime, like chicken thieves, to steal from us the incardination of the electoral bill at 7:00 a.m.? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Is that the linear and collaborative relationship you hold with the oppositions? Or when you throw out of the Constitutional Affairs Committee those who don't feel the same way as you do in the House and the Senate? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Is this the linear relationship, the majority, the relationship between majority and opposition? What are we talking about? Finally, I would add that the problem in the Commission is not the majority or the minority, because the numbers of the relationship between the majority and the minority are respected; the problem is yours, within the PD, because some of your law does not want to vote because, as it is, it was not in the programme. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The problem is all in the majority; if the majority is overturned, if there is something wrong with the majority, this Parliament must be dissolved; it cannot continue to do so. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It's blackmail. What you have done in the last few words, Mr Zanda, is blackmail: you have told your fellow Members that if we do not move forward as the government decides, this Parliament is no longer able to guarantee the majority, that is, everyone at home, no chair and no vitality. Attention, this is the blackmail he's done to you. This Parliament is now blackmailed by a dissolution because there is no majority. The majority is no longer there, President Zanda, because the PD can no longer say that it is a party: if you remember it, you can no longer say it. You're three, four, five, I don't even know how many you've become. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations. Senator Favero's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u29	Senator Mussini, do you intend to intervene? MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). No. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I gave you the floor because you could intervene. Before concluding this debate, I would just like to point out to Senator De Petris that, on the basis of the last votes of confidence expressed in this House, which are the criterion by which membership of the majority or opposition is determined, the relationship between the majority senators and the opposition of the 7th Commission is currently thirteen to twelve; the addition of an opposition senator would result in a situation of equality. This is only to give the facts on the basis of the objective criterion assumed by the Presidency to assign to the Commissions the individual senators of opposition and majority MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Pagliacci!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u32	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I should like to make a few points. In the meantime, I would like to remind everyone that I too have done a check: for the truth, on the occasion of the last vote of confidence - which is very important and on a fairly complex measure - Senator Di Maggio voted in favour. Having said that, I will try to remain calm, despite here Senator Zanda - Senator Crimes is right - has provoked. I'm sorry, dear Luigi (and I'm calling you by name, just because we've known each other for so many years): I never imagined you'd come to such a low level. The undersigned Senator De Petris, in fact, prepared the letter to make those trips, not in the night, but even before yesterday's final vote in the House. Senator Mussini - but Senator Zanda doesn't care much - is the first signatory to the law of popular initiative on school [[Applause from Senator Blundo]] and therefore it is for a fact exactly related to merit and content. Before you talk about tricks and tricks - because you refer to yourself, when you do it [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini]] - keep in mind that we are on the subject, together with other senators who in here, in time, even before your bill, have put at the center of the initiative and their work a serious proposal for the school! [[Applause from Senator Blundo.]] The merit is this: we go to see the press conferences, initiatives and work, when the good school was simply a slogan, but there was absolutely nothing. It is the work of those who have had this commitment for a lifetime, because teaching is his work, so he should first of all respect it. I repeat, therefore, that I did nothing in the night: I simply made a proposal and it is useless for you to turn around the numbers. As it will appear on the site, you have in fact considered the Undersecretary (it is necessary that someone informs him) as no longer being part of the majority. It is not for the President of the Senate to go and check the opinions of the individual senators, who perhaps, in the specific case of the school bill... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator De Petris, these are not opinions: they are votes. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). The votes, therefore, may not be exactly the same as ours (but I don't know, I don't care). We have therefore simply done what belongs to a Group President. I would also like to always remind Senator Zanda that it becomes so unpleasant when he makes such statements, evidently well knowing that he was perhaps the one who made phone calls in the night with President Grasso, that in the evening, at my house, he did not ask me for an alternative proposal: he simply told me that the numbers, in his opinion, were those, because he considered Senator Di Maggio of opposition. This is what President Grasso told me and it is very serious, and I repeat it again: he has not invited me to any alternative proposals at all. Having said that, I would also like to remind President Zanda - perhaps he too is not very familiar with the Rules of Procedure - that the Mixed Group does exist, however, without the need for the votes of others. ZANDA (PD). Then it wasn't like that! DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Yes, by Regulation the Mixed Group exists and perhaps, if it had been present, Senator Ferrara would have told you exactly how it was constituted. Having said that, dear Zanda and dear members of the PD, we made a coalition, so the majority prize, with which it governed in this way, was only taken for that 3% of Left Ecology and Freedom. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Groups, FI-PdL XVII eM5S and Senator Campanella.]] On one thing Renzi is right about school reform: we need to strengthen scientific subjects and, above all, mathematics, because you in here are demonstrating that you are not able to deal with them either in the Commission or for the future. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Campanella, Molinari and Vacciano.]] You know perfectly well that the problem is yours. I respect the internal debate in the Democratic Party but it is not my problem. I exercise, and I have the right to do so, the power to move senators because no balance is altered. These are the same balances that exist in other Commissions and, to be honest, given the always very precise accounts of Senator Malan, even the 14-twelve relationship does not fully respect the relationship between majority and opposition in this House. So maybe you should do the math right. From this point of view, therefore, I do not consider the matter at all closed because I have not received any calls for alternative proposals, so there has also been a violation on the substance, but also because the accounts cannot be fixed and, above all, the President of the Senate cannot even assume the right to decide who is a majority and who is not. I have the trust votes here, and they're not exactly what you're talking about. What's going on is very serious. You, once again, think of responding to the world of school, in the face of protests, sit-ins and requests for change, with the tricks and tricks that you have used to us this year and of which I could make a long list. In the night, dear Zanda, maybe you're in charge of making up Senate rules. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, M5S and Senators Mussini, Vacciano and Bencini Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u33	Before continuing with the debate, I would just like to mention a few facts, while for the rest there is the position of the Presidency. The first thing, Senator De Petris, as you mentioned, is that you received a letter from the President of the Senate inviting you to make an alternative proposal. You cannot deny that this invitation was made because it was made in writing by letter of 20 May 2015 (perhaps in your speech you referred to another letter). DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). There she is! (Senator De Petris shows a sheet of paper.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As far as Senator Di Maggio's vote of confidence is concerned, you will certainly have a source, but the Presidency also has a source that I do not think can be contested: the last vote of confidence expressed by Senator Di Maggio, on 24 March 2015, was negative. Let us continue the debate now. However, I felt that it was necessary for the House to be aware of the facts in order to be able to discuss them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u36	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am sorry that the so-called fake school reform is coming to the Senate, because this will be a fake school reform, and that we are beginning to discuss the fake school reform by talking about numbers and technicalities, which in my opinion are not significant; teachers do not give a damn about the numbers and all the crap we are talking about right now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator Centinario, with all due respect, I ask you to maintain a proper language. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). All I said was "cavolate", big cabbages. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm sensitive. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I'm sensitive too. It's also good in salad, the cabbage. I also say one thing to my colleagues in the Democratic Party. I remember when in the first Commission you did what you wanted to change your representatives from today to tomorrow because they were not aligned with the thinking of the President of the Council and as a result everything went well and it seemed that the initiatives of the Democratic Party Group should not even be commented on by this House. It seems strange, therefore, that now we go to the Mixed Group for fleas. This Group, dear President Zanda (which I greatly value in the management of his Group), if we remember, was totally "occupied" by the Democratic Party because it had to follow its indications: a Mixed Group on the left, a Mixed Group that had to have the ideas that you had at the beginning of the legislature. That is why, as you know very well, a second Mixed Group of center-rights, called the LAG, had to be created. So let's not go and raise dust that doesn't make sense. Go back to your home, where you have done what you wanted, since the first day of this legislature, and today you find yourself in extreme difficulty about a measure that is criticized by everyone. It is the provision on the school, on which President Renzi hoped to make the phenomenon and obtain further consent, but which turned against him. Proof of this is that, at this time, more than 80% of professors are against this measure; and most of those professors, who are currently saying in the streets that they will no longer vote for the Democratic Party, are the electoral mass thanks to which your President-in-Office hoped to win the regional elections. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u39	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I often hear Senator Crimi speaking on a democratic basis, but I would like to remind him that he has made himself the spokesperson for expulsion requests from his party leaders. [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] If math isn't an opinion, you've gone to 54 senators, and now, how many are you? So, before you take lessons in democracy, look to yourself, and also to respect the rules! Look at what is written in your Group's Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the Mixed Group. Live comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u40	Senator Crimes, you could talk like the others. Senator Santangelo, please calm down, too.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u41	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the interim report by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into accidents at work and occupational diseases. I would remind you that in yesterday's afternoon sitting the rapporteur incorporated the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the report by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into accidents at work and occupational diseases was presented and we are debating it today. The content of the report makes clear the heavy and important work that has been done, but it also makes it clear that there is still work to be done, supervised and implemented both in the field of education and culture. It is still necessary to keep a close eye on the phenomenon even outside the emerging circumstances. In fact, this phenomenon regains too often strong visibility and interest only after the occurrence of adverse, critical or even dramatic events. It is therefore still necessary to act with policies of ex ante awareness, that is, before the critical adverse event occurs, without neglecting the attention and the garrison of the ex post sequences. These goals can be achieved with a constant and systematic commitment to the dissemination of information, training and commitment to feed and disseminate a culture of proactive sensitivity to the phenomenon, including by using the channels of educational institutions of every order and grade, the channel of lifelong training and continuous education in productive, public and private areas, as well as seminars and conferences, as well as the dissemination of the results of studies, surveys, researches and surveys. Unfortunately, it is precisely the training understood in the broad sense that in a phase of economic crisis, and not only, like the one we are experiencing is the subject of cuts and drains. Obviously it is not so true that in the operational reality the training of workers and professionals is understood as so fundamental to protect and motivate workers and professionals who, in order to achieve the objectives of the enterprise and of each institution, must devote themselves to this. In this sense it is therefore necessary to stimulate the attention of employers on training and risk prevention and, above all, of the public employer who, with erroneous and stereotyped reading, is often considered to be sensitized on the subject. In this reflection I believe it is also necessary to recall the necessary attention to be paid to the personalization of the relative activity also in relation to the genre. On this last point, I would like the Commission's activities to address other areas in the near future, which are very important for the number of operators and adverse events. These include the health sector, which employs around 800,000 people, some of whom have a health profile. The latter intervene directly on the assisted person, use complex technology, health care devices that can be risk factors, oncology drugs, sharp material, stinging and gases of different nature and chemical elements. It is a world of which little is known and which should be explored, also in view of the fact that a more than significant part of these operators are women. In fact, INAIL provides us with data that bring the issue to the fore with regard to accidents at work, given that out of 17,000 health claims, 70% are, on average, women. By broadening the analysis to the entire health sector, attention must be paid to an interesting fact: the reduction of accidents at work in the health sector, especially in hospitals, recorded by INAIL. This decrease, in fact, in recent years is about 6% compared to the beginning of the 2000s and is linked - by admission of the same institution - to the reduction of the staff in place in the National Health Service but not to a more adequate prevention, which therefore remains an extremely topical topic. Despite this, analyses of the specific sector date back to a not too recent past and therefore the sector must be taken back into account. Recently, in the Council of Ministers of 24 February 2014, a legislative decree was approved implementing the EU legislation on the prevention of accidental injuries by cutting and pointing in the health sector, which provides some interesting data on the subject in the premises and in the accompanying reports. Over two thirds of accidental exposures are nurses, the category of health professionals with the highest biological risk from cuts and punctures at the workplace. Exposure to biological risk is the most frequent occupational accident among healthcare professionals (41 percent incidence), followed by trauma with 30 percent. Data from the SIROH project (Italian study on occupational risk from HIV and other blood-transmitted pathogens) show that the incidents that resulted in mutagenicity to at least one of the HIV, HBV and HCV viruses occurred during a blood withdrawal in 42 percent of cases and as many as during the insertion and manipulation of a catheter. In these two practices, the percentage of nurses in total exposure exceeds 80 percent. It is also interesting to highlight the economic impact of these phenomena. On average, about 850 euros per event, for a total of 72 million euros per year only for direct accidents, without calculating those induced. The data reported take on even more important dimensions worldwide. According to a statistical model developed by the World Health Organisation, more than three million health workers are injured at work every year. The data stated requires our attention, and also urgently. To sum up, we need to encourage training, raise awareness of prevention and personalise work on the basis of gender, and I believe that these actions must also take into account, if not above all, the health sector, which I hope will enter into the planning of the work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of accidents at work and occupational diseases. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u43	Senator Barozzino is a member of the House, who will also be presenting motion for a resolution No 1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u44	Madam President, yesterday I listened carefully to the report by the President of the Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of accidents at work and for a while in his words I found many things that I shared. I almost couldn't believe what I was listening to, because in these classrooms you hardly hear true things. But then, unfortunately, I heard - and I regret this - that the jobs act would also promote the fight against accidents and occupational diseases. I must say - I say this with regret, because I esteem Senator Fabbri - that I do not share this view at all. It is not acceptable, not because I am the one who says so (of course opinions can be different), but because during the last session in the Commission we audit the leaders and the unions with regard to the Fiumicino affair and in that forum it became clear what happened and why certain things happen. The complaints and reports, which - I believe - have arrived at all the members of the Commission, are very clear: there is hardly any control over them: we do not know who the workers belong to, we do not know where they come from and which category they belong to. There is fragmentation of work and not just that. There was another very serious complaint... [[Brusio]] I'd like some silence, please. We are talking about a very important issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u45	You're absolutely right, Senator. Unfortunately, yesterday too, there was this inattention.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u46	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). I have to tell the truth. I'm so tired of the fact that when it comes to the world of work, they all screw around. Seriously, this really bothers me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator, but I think it's relatively quiet right now. BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). No, there's no silence. Absolutely. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I understand it bothers you. I call on everyone to shut up or speak very softly. You're welcome, Senator. BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). A very important issue has been raised here, which should be everyone's concern. I repeat, everyone. In connection with the fire, the complaints that came to us - unless he was the only one to understand this - are also related to the fact that there have been different treatments between workers who could say no and workers who could not say no and who have accepted any conditions. This has been reported to all of us. If anyone says that safety at work has nothing to do with the lack of workers' rights, they can get out of this House, because we are mocking the world of work, workers and workers. I do not have this task because, unlike what President Zanda says, I am not here thanks to the PD, but mainly thanks to the votes of the workers and those who believed in this choice. I am here to represent this huge mass of workers, who are less and less represented in this Parliament. Then I would like to say the following. If we are to tackle this problem, we must do it seriously and with the right spirit, putting each of us something more to understand the complaints that come to us from the world of work. Accidents at work and occupational diseases can be avoided or reduced by prevention and prevention when a worker can freely say whether there are things that go or do not go to a place of work. In fact, we also have reports of people who did not go to the E.R., but went to the family doctor because they were afraid of losing their jobs. That's what we're here for. President Fabbri, this is where we must begin if we are to be serious about safety at work. I remember that we also invited ANMIL and I have to say that I was deeply touched by that hearing because the president of ANMIL is a person who suffered an accident at work. We have tabled common sense amendments (I know they always say so). How do we - I ask a specific question - relocate those who have suffered a serious accident at work? Amendments have been tabled, at my first signature, by the Group of the Left Ecology and Freedom and also by someone from the Mixed Group, with whom we asked to remove from Legislative Decree No 81 of 2008 that magical word, to Article 42, which appeared a few years ago. I read it as it is: The employer, also in view of the provisions of Law No 68 of 12 March 1999, in relation to the judgments referred to in Article 41, paragraph 6, implements the measures indicated by the competent doctor, and I will return shortly to the competent doctor, if the latter provide for an inability to perform the specific task, shall, where possible... Here we are all adults and vaccinated and all intelligent. I asked to delete the expression "where possible" because you know how easy it is for large companies and employers who have media power to make that "where possible" become "is not possible." We need to talk about this, about concrete and true things, which are really going to meet safety at work. We also heard that because there were so many competent doctors, because the airport was big, the ratings changed depending on the circumstances, and yet the workers were all there. On this point too, we have tabled very precise amendments, in one of which we simply asked, not that there was no doctor, but that the doctor should be released from the economic dependence of the employer, which often, when rights are lacking, becomes master. And yet pretend you don't understand. I do not understand how we can say that we really want to meet the safety needs of workers (and I am convinced that in that Commission we all believe in these things). The problem is that the proposal presented by Giovanni Barozzino of Left Ecology and Freedom? Look, I don't suffer from protagonism and in order to really respond to the world of work and safety at work I have no problem if you introduce it. I don't get into these problems. I have no problem, the important thing is that we really discuss serious things, because I really find it hard to make words turn into deeds. I am used to it: the words I want to turn them into concrete facts, they are not for the many words, because they taught me from a young age that when you want to understand something, you understand it in the air. These are, therefore, the concrete things that we should do, if then this majority - because then I always have to say what I think - made an alliance with those who do not believe in certain values, this is not my problem, you have to solve it. In my opinion, this majority had the possibility of reaching another kind of alliance on true content and values, but it chose another way; these are your problems, not mine. I could list a lot of other points in our motion for a resolution at my first signature, but I would just like to make this small point: the motion for a resolution that I have tabled and which I invite you to read is the result of a collaboration - for which I must thank seriously - with those who really know the world of work because they live there. I have contacted so many workers' safety representatives, so many workers' representatives to make this proposal come about, which I really invite you to read, because it seems to me that it is already taken for granted that it will not be read. In fact, I still do not see how many motions for resolutions have been tabled, because there is none here and nothing can be read yet; of course they will reach the last minute and there is a feeling that they are presented in practice and that almost no one will read them. The invitation I make to you is to read it and vote on it, because these are the answers that must be given to the workers. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators De Pin and Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u47	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak, and in the course of her speech she will also present the motion for a resolution No 4. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u48	Madam President, the Commission's work on the phenomenon of accidents at work and occupational diseases has reached its eighth month, and I must say that it has worked livelyly and I would say almost enthusiastic and very cooperative. The visit to the Expo was also very interesting and full of ideas to develop. However, I think it is important - I am opposed - despite the non-final nature of the report that we are going to discuss, to point out some critical aspects of the Commission's work, in order to improve from a completely constructive and proactive point of view and to make the work more effective in the immediate future. I am referring to three critical issues, which could have been avoided. Firstly, I do not think that the conclusions of the work carried out by the previous Commission on accidents at work, chaired by Senator Tofani, have been adequately taken into account, which I believe would have allowed the work in progress to be deepened and to be completed, as well as to avoid repeating paths and investigations that have already been carried out. Some time could be wasted to make a summary, starting from the results of the previous Commission. Another critical issue is the fact that, from the methodological point of view, it is necessary to improve the verbalization activity, so that it can be a concrete and valid tool for Commissioners both for a re-reading of the suggestions emerged in the session and to allow, in case of absence, to stay up to date with the discussion. Another proposal that I would like to make here is that the Commission, because of its pragmatic and concrete nature and its link with reality, could have a great opportunity to be a trait d'union with the Ministries and stakeholders of the sector, in particular the scientific societies, precisely to fill those existing regulatory gaps and to raise the levels of protection of workers' health and safety. In this respect, I believe it is essential that the Commission of Inquiry opens and maintains a constant comparison with the other Commissions, in particular the Transport, Industry, Labour, Health and Environment Commissions. The issues which I hope the Commission will examine with greater tenacity in the coming months, also in order to be consistent with its institutional aims, are contained in the motion for a resolution tabled by my Group. I'm just quoting a few here. I am thinking, first of all, of the issue of so-called difficult disabilities, for example. In particular, the ageing of the population, the need to reorganize work, the difficulties of being behind a changing job, the fragmentation of work, the difficulty of relocating and requalifying unfit workers and, therefore, the need to analyze other tools to assess new risks, pose difficulties and this also to relocate work and man in an ergonomic project to protect frailties. I am referring, therefore, to the people who are advancing with age, to the disabilities due to civil disabilities, as well as to the recovery of post-injury, i.e. considering how to achieve relocation. These are aspects on which I think the Commission should pay attention, because they are the most difficult ones to deal with in practice, especially today, when, with the precariousness of work and the employment crisis, some people may perhaps risk losing their jobs precisely because of a lack of fitness or an excess of limitations and prescriptions. On the other hand, with regard to the evaluation of the various technopathies, I believe that the prevention measures relating to the health surveillance and control of workers exposed to or previously exposed to carcinogens and mutagens, including asbestos and substitute materials, deserve particular attention. I say this - and all the talk is related to that of difficult disabilities - because we must bear in mind that in Italy we have almost 3 million cancer patients: dying from cancer means dying from the second cause of death after cardiovascular diseases. What does this mean? It means that 2.4 percent of the population has an oncology past, has contracted a disease. Today it happens that, thanks to early diagnosis and increasingly effective therapies, in the last twenty years we have seen an increased survival of these people: in Europe 52 percent of the new cases of cancer heal and therefore needs to be relocated to work in an appropriate way. In the United States, even 67 percent are cured. In Italy we have 2.4 percent of the population who has passed oncology care and who, lacking an adequate network of territorial assistance, needs assisted paths also in the work. This is an interesting aspect to evaluate, as are also the accident and occupational disease indices provided by INAIL. We have a declining trend with regard to accidents: both serious and fatal accidents are reduced. This aspect has been studied and it has been assessed that this happens both for negative reasons, that is for the lack of work and for the number of hours worked, but also for positive reasons, that is for measures of prevention more and more adequate, for the transposition of the European directives, first with the legislative decree n. 626 of 1994 and now with the legislative decree n. 81 of 2008, that has had a very positive impact on this. At the same time, however, we have an increase in occupational diseases, but if we go to see well, about 60% - but also more - are not the classic work pathologies, such as pneumocunosis or noise pathology, but they are diseases that we call work-related, that is especially those related to musculoskeletal disorders that find an additional risk factor in the working environment, but that can also be present in the general population. This means that these diseases are denounced with great ease and also recognized; even those that involve a disability of below 6%, and therefore do not provide compensation, are recognized very easily: a classic in this sense is the peak incidence in recent years of carpal tunnel syndrome, which involves a disability of 2%, so in fact a carpal tunnel syndrome is a bit like an agenda: it is not denied to anyone. The recognition of cancer diseases is much more problematic. For example, the Italian Association of Cancer Registers (AIRTUM) states that in 2014 366,000 new cases of malignancies other than skin cancers (about 1,000 per day) and approximately 70,000 cases of skin cancers occurred in our country. This means that between 4,000 and 20,000 deaths annually are estimated; of these, those linked to occupational diseases should be between 2,400 and 12,000 each year, therefore around 60 percent, but the percentage of recognized ones does not correspond, because they fall among submerged diseases, those that escape. Except for high-fraction tumours, such as mesotheliomas, which are automatically linked to asbestos, or naso-sinusal carcinomas among exposed to wood and leather dusts, but all other tumours (liver, stomach, lung) have a great difficulty in being recognized. Likewise, among the new emerging diseases, we have work-related stress. This also affects the uncertainty about the precariousness of the employment relationship and the fear of losing work, and this is also supported by the hyperconsumption of drugs that we see being recorded. In these respects, the Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of accidents at work should also re-evaluate all virtuous safety management systems (integrated management systems) which, by improving the organisational climate, have a positive impact both on the reduction of accidents and occupational diseases and on the well-being perceived at work by the worker. This, my lords, is the future, because to affect the quality of work, to make the worker feel part of the company, to work on the organizational climate means not only to prevent the worker, to reduce the sick days, to reduce the results (let us remember that the lack of prevention costs us 60 million per year), but it means to positively affect the overall health of the citizen and therefore positively affect the costs of the National Health Service. At the same time, this makes the company more competitive and functional, which therefore manages better to withstand the crisis and to invest in workers. In my opinion, the Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of accidents, with its surveys, listening to all stakeholders and making trade unions of various skills and needs, could implement that virtuous instrument which, at times, serves to bring citizens closer to politics, as to ensuring that the norm is increasingly concrete, functional, adapted to the needs of the productive world rather than remaining abstract, often poorly applicable and unsatisfied, as well as creating a problem. We believe, among the most urgent commitments that the Government should take on health and safety at work, that it is essential that the Executive, when exercising the delegation referred to in Article 1, paragraphs 5 and 6, of Law No 183 of 2014, really move in the direction of simplification, but that it must not be absolutely a lowering of the levels of protection, as much as a rationalization aimed at the result. Speaking of simplifications in the field of health and safety evokes, in those with a minimum of experience in this field, the concept of déjà vu, there have been many situations in which there has been talk of reducing the rules governing the prevention of accidents and occupational diseases. I would remind you that we have a single text, which is not one, which has 306 articles and 50 annexes, when - for example in Sweden - the single text includes 10 articles, in Germany 30 articles and in France 25. And in ours, then, everything is not understood, because some things still remain outside. And, therefore, it is necessary to simplify and make a first level rule that gives an address, and then delegate to the relevant actors, to the operators of the field the application lines, also giving the ability and the possibility to modify them over time, because every year we have updates of the TLV and of the different guidelines. Therefore, the legislation, with the delays and dysfunctions that we have in the institutions, cannot keep pace. Legislation needs to be more and more streamlined and, instead, give space to actors in the field. In particular, we should also look at the overall health of the worker-citizen and, therefore, assess a lot - it is a need very much felt by the citizens - the risks not only within the company, but also outside, in the environment. There is asbestos talk, but there is also that concerning new technologies and nanomaterials, of which we do not yet know the effects, which must be monitored in order not to cry crocodile tears in the short term. It is therefore necessary to involve environmental aspects in an increasingly global safety and health promotion system. I believe that we should promote health and, at the same time, the culture of safety. In our report there is another precise system which concerns training. What does training mean? It means leaving immediately - this in the Commission has been immediately said - that is, from the school and, in particular, to provide, in the context of the implementation of the educational booklet of the citizen, referred to in article 2, paragraph 1, letter i), of the legislative decree n. 276 of 2003, the recognition and exportability of the training in the matter of safety of the job already completed, so that such training is increasingly linked to the citizen-worker, leaving to the company the training obligation for the mentoring and training of specific risks of the company. This means promoting a culture of security. It means really preventing and not just sticking to formal adjustments, which are often completely unnecessary and even redundant. These are, among other things, laws that were already to be implemented. We're more than ten years late. I think it is also important to draw up, within the electronic health file, a section that can be used as a health risk record. This would make it possible to carry out the responsibility of the worker citizen, to avoid diagnostic duplications - and unnecessary costs - and to overcome the current incomprehensible provision which provides for the retention of a personal health document of the worker at each holding where the worker has worked. I remember that, after the employment relationship, the health record remains in the company for ten years, closed, without anyone having access to it. In fact, therefore, it is a useless document, which remains there at the dust, even if closed in the drawers, which generates another problem to be solved, that of the protection of privacy, which often hinders also that work of the information flows, so virtuously implemented by various projects such as "MalProf" and in specific groups, which have carried out very important and stimulating results to be taken into consideration. It is therefore necessary to carry out this training of the citizen, starting from schools, also providing, in the framework of the reform of the school (Act No. 2294, good school, which we hope will one day become so), to promote the inclusion of health and safety at work as a subject of teaching in institutions of every order and grade, in particular those of higher education, with appropriate teaching methods, which provide for the involvement of the witness of injured persons, also identifying specific paths also in the context of university courses. I mean that, if we bring the culture of the example and show a elementary school kid someone who, perhaps because he omitted the safety devices in a press, lost an arm or had a more serious injury, that example will remain imprinted in his memory more than a thousand sterile pages, often written for reasons of the whole and only self-referential. As well as it is right - for example - that the designer and engineer graduating from a university faculty have already given rise to the concept of prevention, so that they can carry out a project that takes into account those safety prevention measures. When we went to the Expo we found a contradiction: they had already concluded some pavilions and had to redo work, with additional costs, because certain safety regulations had not been taken into account. From this point of view, therefore, we must be as concrete as possible. We also need to intervene on the cultural gap of our country. On the one hand, we have very detailed legislation; on the other hand, a gap that is extracted in three points: a lack of consideration, often, of prevention (we do not use even that 2% dedicated to prevention provided for in the LEA); equally little respect for the rules provided for by law, because it is not perceived useful and often conceived as cost, especially in small companies, and as a formal fulfillment (it is often not to be wrong, because in fact it is so); finally, a widespread organizational difficulty. The first two points are linked to each other and lead to a consideration that marks a turning point in the approach to the issue of health and safety at work: sanctions, of course, serve and are necessary, but repression cannot be the only way to try to diminish the wrong behavior. The first real and great simplification is that of having laws that, rather than punishing the wrong and dangerous behaviors, stimulate the virtuous ones. In fact, Article 27 of Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2008... PRESIDENT. You should finish, Senator. FUCKSIA (M5S). I'll finish. It expressly provides for the establishment of a system for the qualification of enterprises and self-employed persons. Unfortunately, it is also well known that the decree, which should have regulated this qualification and should have been issued within 12 months of the entry into force of Legislative Decree No 81 of 2008, has not only not been issued, but does not appear to be among the priorities of the legislator. It is no coincidence that we have included the implementation of this rule in the Government's commitments. As for prevention, it cannot be separated from a mature, conscious and general behavioral culture. What should be done to speed up this process involving all prevention actors? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. FUCKSIA (M5S). For example, it seems to me completely inconsistent - and I conclude - to give the employer, in an indelegable way, the risk assessment and the drafting of the relevant document, which requires him to identify the procedures for implementing the measures to be implemented, as well as the roles of the company organisation to which he must provide and to which only persons with adequate powers and powers must be assigned. And it is inconsistent, then, to allow that person, who is the main security creditor towards his workers, to exercise this function without adequate training. The training activity must concern the employer, like other business entities, from managers to workers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u49	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u50	Madam President, I am speaking briefly only to express some ideas and to share the importance of this report. The issue of safety at work is fundamental and today, with the presentation of the interim report on the work carried out by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of accidents at work and occupational diseases, the supervision of the Commission and Parliament on emergencies and safety concerns is strengthened. I would like to point out that the hearings that have been held - as Mrs Fucksia said, in a very sensible and more analytical way than I did - have made it absolutely clear that there is a need to focus on a greater culture of safety, prevention and the environment, but above all - I stress this - on training and education. In this sense, the functions of the school, of recurrent training, of continuing training and of training at the workplace should be re-examined. These are essential aspects. It is necessary to spread, especially in the world of school - and the so-called provision on good school says so and predicts it - and in that of work the culture of safety, of compliance with the rules, of the assumption of responsibility, which are always personal and also collective. It is, therefore, essential to intervene on forma mentis, in order to modify it and, therefore, to prevent it today in order to avoid serious damage and problems tomorrow. Let us see the enormous costs, in terms of human lives, that we experience on a daily basis and the very serious effects caused by asbestos. The problem of asbestos and Eternit is a serious open problem, which the Commission and its President, Senator Fabbri, intend to address precisely, through the opening of a dossier. This concerns respect for health and the right to health, in accordance with Article 32 of the Constitution, according to which: The Republic protects health as the fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community. Therefore, to promote and define an agenda of work, to give serious and concrete answers, environmental and health - as Mrs Silvestro said very well - and social to the problem is a task of our Commission, as well as monitoring the effort that will be supported for the recovery of polluted environments. Great is the decision recently taken with the approval of the bill on environmental crimes. In this sense we will all work with determination and, above all, all together. Thank you, President Fabbri. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u51	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u52	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, today in this House we have the opportunity to discuss the work done in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of accidents at work and occupational diseases, with particular regard to the system of protection of health and safety at work. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the Members of the Commission, and in particular Mr Fabbri, for the important work she has done in drawing up the report we are debating. The reflections and comments of the Minister for Labour, Trade Unions and the main trade associations who spoke during the hearings were also interesting. These were useful opportunities to propose concrete solutions to reduce the risk of accidents at work. A fairly comforting fact has emerged: accident patterns have been declining in recent years, and this can be attributed to the effort that companies are making to promote the affirmation of a real culture of safety in the workplace. The entrepreneur's commitment to prevention is demonstrated by the data. According to INAIL, in fact, accidents at work in 2013 were just under 460,000, with a 21 percent reduction compared to 2009. And even more significant is the decrease in fatal accidents which, in the last five years, is 32 percent. The fundamental value of worker safety and health protection must be safeguarded and preserved. From this point of view, I consider it essential to take action in favour of those companies which invest in improving their prevention activities. To this end, the INAIL should be given the commitment to finance a number of training activities and investment projects in health and safety carried out in micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, the reduction in the average rate of the so-called INAIL tariff has also been useful over the years for all companies investing in improving health and safety conditions in the workplace. In this respect, however, reference has been made in the Commission to the announced hypothesis by the Institute for cutting this incentive. We do not hesitate to make a negative assessment of this choice, and we therefore hope that the system of setting tariffs will be revised for the benefit of companies investing in the field of accident prevention and safety. One of my fundamental aspects, as it is close to the demands of entrepreneurs, is that this report shows scope for improving the safety issue and legislation for the benefit of businesses. In fact, I believe it is essential that, in our form mentis, the centrality of safety and the absolute need for protection of the worker is not opposed to the interests of the entrepreneur, but that these two aspects go hand in hand in a virtuous and productive relationship. From this conceptual premise, it is clear that the employer, who works firsthand in most companies within the company, has at heart the maintenance of a healthy and safe working environment for his employees. However, the burden of prevention and inspection measures is rather complex. In this respect, the report emphasises the need to simplify legislation and administrative security. According to ISTAT, 94.8% of companies have fewer than 10 employees, and the legislation, to be effective, has to be business-friendly, due to the principle of effectiveness and effectiveness of the right to safety. Therefore, simplification is also useful to reduce improper burdens, as it avoids unnecessary costs of advice, judicial disputes and inadequate organisational choices, which penalise the prevention activity to be always combined with the necessary training activities. It is precisely training that must be considered a strategic value to prevent accidents and occupational diseases. Today, however, compulsory training is regulated by various and uncoordinated State-Regions agreements that provide, many times, repetitions of content, complex, redundant provisions, and above all divergent or otherwise interpreted by the individual Regions or inspection bodies. Therefore, it is necessary to avoid unnecessary repetition of identical courses and the unnecessary documentation required that nothing guarantees from the substantive point of view of safety. A thoughtful simplification exercise is needed in order to achieve an effective system in form and substance. In conclusion, I hope that, at the successive stages of the Commission's work, the synergistic relationship between worker and employer in the area of safety and health protection of the worker will be emphasized. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Borioli and Fabbri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u53	Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank President Fabbri, the Parent Company, my fellow Members of the Commission and all the offices for the fruitful work carried out so far by the Committee of Inquiry into accidents at work and occupational diseases. The group that has formed - as has already been mentioned - is really lively, curious and very determined. As rapporteur in the Commission, I worked on the proposal for the establishment of this Committee of Inquiry, during the examination of the measure concluded with the resolution of 4 December 2013, and I thought that I would introduce two measures which I would like to draw to the attention of the House, considering them to be of considerable importance. The first measure was aimed at promoting gender equality within the members of the Commission of Inquiry, in implementation of the principle laid down in Article 51 of the Constitution, which provides that all citizens, of the one and the other sex, may have access to public offices and elective offices under conditions of equality, in accordance with the requirements laid down by law. It was therefore necessary to intervene in order to make this principle effective, including in relation to the composition of our Committee of Inquiry. The second measure was to introduce the gender perspective between the Commission's competences. It represents a multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary approach to the study of phenomena, such as accidents at work, and can and should contribute to improving the quality and effectiveness of the measures in place in this field. These gender studies are also characterised by a strong political and emancipatory character, as they are closely linked to the female situation and, in general, to those of minority and at least disadvantaged persons. Among the topics that I would like to develop quickly are occupational diseases related to asbestos, which have already been mentioned. The judgment of the Court of Cassation, which annulled the prescription and condemnation for the Eternit scandal of Casale Monferrato - a city very close to the one from which I come, Biella - makes us reflect on the effectiveness of our judicial system. We have committed ourselves to finding appropriate solutions for citizens to have justice, by appointing Pm Guariniello and the association of victims. I was also interested in another topic concerning asbestos and which is of great importance in my Piedmontese territory, where it is the management of construction sites with natural asbestos, especially in conjunction with large works, such as the TAV or the third pass. We also remember the problems on the fibers of tremolite at the yards of Sauze d'Oulx (Turin). There is no specific legislation, on the contrary, there is a legal vacuum and it is therefore very desirable to have a legislative intervention which clearly defines, throughout the national territory, the way in which construction sites are managed in the presence of natural asbestos. Another chapter that we are really interested in is the accidents associated with agricultural machinery and all agro-silvo-pastoral activities, which see - alas - an increase, in this case, in deaths and accidents with serious consequences. We still have to work hard on the training and dissemination of culture for safety, starting with schools, with role-playing and simulation games. We know how young children are sponges, and this is demonstrated by the activities that are carried out under Law 626 that see our pupils in all schools, in case of emergency, ready to carry out all the necessary acts. The last passage on the topics that have already been mentioned is related to the hearing of the representatives of the airport of Fiumicino that has left us much, but very dissatisfied. To some specific questions that have been asked, in fact, and I would like to remind you of some that seem to me quite important, has not been answered. For example, it was asked what kind of compartmentalization against smoke and flames was put in place and there was no response. Nor has it been answered to the question whether it was in CE the equipment put in support to try to avoid overheating, and so on. It was really an audition that left us pretty embarrassed. Now, however, I would like to talk about the resolution tabled by the majority together with Forza Italia, given the interim report presented by the President and appreciated all the in-depth discussions through a full programme of hearings. The multiplicity of problems still open, such as the evaluation expressed in the report on the hearings carried out, the problems of effectiveness and effectiveness of the control system, have been explored, because there is a vertical separation of the bodies and agencies responsible for it that duplicates the interventions on the same realities, dispersing both resources and energies, while on the other hand, depotential, in fact, the possibility of extending the inspection activity to a wider extent. I remember, then, the incomplete implementation of the legislative decree already mentioned, n. 81 of 2008, especially as regards the full operation of the international information system of prevention, which is really essential to the fight against the risks related to work and the protection of health and safety. Then there is also a very strong need to simplify only bureaucratic redundancy in the area of safety and work for businesses, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises, while also supporting the incentives for good practice put in place by companies themselves. In addition, there is a noticeable unevenness between the various parts of the country, as the President and all the colleagues who spoke before me have mentioned, and there is a need to bring together the various subjects involved in prevention. Then there is the need to contextualize a new and more incisive discipline of the tools for preventing and controlling the risks related to work, also under Law No 183 of 2014, especially as regards the establishment of the Single Agency for Labour Inspections. Finally, I recall the permanent asbestos emergency, also on the health of workers and former workers, resulting from the very long period of latency of the pathologies related to it. We therefore call for the Government's commitment to coordinate and integrate the supervisory authorities and to identify, in agreement with the Regions, ways to make as homogeneous as possible the activities of ASL and ARPA in the field of occupational safety and pathologies. We also call for the commitment to fully implement the Decree-Law of 9 April 2008 No 81, taking into account also the hearings that seem to signal an increase in occupational diseases in the face of a decrease, fortunately, of accidents (those fatal) and to equip the system with a fundamental instrument to measure the goodness and effectiveness of public policies, because it is also necessary to monitor and verify them. We also ask the Government to provide for coordination regarding the implementation of investigative, technical and scientific support functions, judicial offices, which work well, and all small and medium-sized prosecutors, with the definition of targeted interventions in relation to major works or works and settlements of particular complexity. We also call for the updating and keeping of databases; for them to be linked to the SINP that I have already mentioned; for the link between other bodies and institutional agencies operating in the field of the protection of legality (such as ANAC), both at national and regional level, and for cooperation with associations in the third sector (such as ANMIL), also in order to improve the training and information of workers on the subject. We also call for all necessary measures to be taken, clearly within the balance of the public budget, with a view to reducing the complexity of the bureaucracy of businesses, in particular the small and medium-sized ones, while supporting companies investing in instruments and practices dedicated to safety in the workplace. We also call for the coordination of inspection forces to be directed towards the dual objective of avoiding overlaps of similar controls and of providing inspection staff, who work very well, with a common basis of vocational training and a specialization that optimizes the use of human resources around the most relevant risk categories, crossing the boundaries of belonging to the body of origin. Finally, we ask to continue and strengthen, also taking inspiration from the indications already contained in the National Asbestos Plan, presented by former Minister Balduzzi, the actions aimed at completing the activities of census of polluted sites, according to homogeneous technical-scientific parameters throughout the national territory; the interventions aimed at the gradual and integral reclamation of sites to increase what is positively done with the resources allocated already in the last law of stability; initiatives to support the victims of asbestos and all their families through economic, insurance and social benefits, and through a direct intervention of the State as a civil part in the particularly complex judicial proceedings, such as that recalled by Eternit, through solidarity support towards the legal expenses that victims must bear in the procedural phases. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Ichino]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u55	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u56	We greet the members of the municipal council of the children of Corciano, in the province of Perugia, who carry out an important exercise of democratic participation. On behalf of all senators, I welcome them to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u57	I inform the Assembly that the following motions for resolutions have been tabled: No 1 by Senators Barozzino and other Senators, No 2 by Senators Zanda, Romans Paolo, Schifani, Zeller and other Senators, No 3, Senator Centinario and other Senators, and No 4 by Senator Fucksia and other Senators. The texts of the motions for resolutions are distributed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u58	Madam President, I have listened to the debate and I think that, on the subject of safety and health at work, it is hardly possible to split up. The objective that will distinguish us in the work that we will do, both in the Commission and in this House, and in the activity that we carry out in our territories, will be the constant reduction of accidents and the progressive and constant reduction of occupational diseases. It is a matter of civilization - as was said yesterday - and of justice, but also of economic development. I would like to make two brief comments on what I have heard, starting with that of Senator Barozzino, to whom I am bound by the commitment of these months in the Commission. There is a question of method and merit, Senator. On the question of method, the Commission of Inquiry - as you know - will not deliver opinions on delegated decrees relating to jobs act. In the matter of merit, legitimately, each of us has a different opinion, but it is true that the delegation law provides for the establishment of an agency or inspectorate, in any case of a body that we have considered can be the place where we go to work on the issues that have emerged. And these are the critical issues mentioned by Senator Fucksia, about the ability to coordinate and not to overlap the interventions, recognizing - for example - to initiatives such as that of Expo that they had worked well, precisely because they tried to put together, without duplication, all the interventions of the inspection forces. Senator Fucksia is right. We are a new commission, we have been working for a few months and we have created an excellent climate, fruit of the commitment of each of us, but we also need to collaborate with the other permanent committees. The subject of work, justice and the person is the result of the commitment and work of each permanent Commission and of every area of intervention. I will conclude on the question of companies, referring to the demands of Senator Pelino but also of Senator Barozzino. We win the challenge if we no longer oppose the world of employers and the world of workers. If we do not overcome this division, thinking that one has more obligations than the other, we will have done nothing good. Therefore, we need to think about incentives, reducing INAIL premiums and recovering from sanctions - as was suggested - so that they are invested in the issue of safety at work, rewarding - in my opinion - virtuous enterprises and penalising those who think that safety at work is only a gabella, an obligation and not an added value in terms of both economic and personal. On the other hand, we must continue to work to ensure that the workers of our companies are protected, thanks to the awareness of the employers, but they themselves understand how important it is sometimes to stop for a minute and enter a construction site, a place where we are working, with an endowment that is certainly an obligation of the company. I shall conclude, Madam President, by recalling that my first speech as President of this Commission was in Rovigo, a city where four people died - alas - near a cistern. Believe me, it was very hard, because there is not only the failure of all the existing regulations on safety at work: there is failure as people, because, being close to the family, you realize that those people went out in the morning to go to work with responsibility - responsibilities on which the undersigned has nothing to declare, being still under investigation by the judiciary - and have no longer returned home. The synthesis remains one: those employers have failed and those workers are no longer there. And if the policy on safety and health protection in the workplace were to be divided, it would have failed itself. I thank the Presidency, I thank the collaborators of our Commission, the dedicated officials, President Grasso - as I recalled yesterday - and all the members of the Commission from all the parliamentary groups, because they have allowed us to start a beautiful job. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Romano]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u59	I call the representative of the Government, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u60	Madam President, with regard to the motions for resolutions tabled, I am in favour of the motion for a resolution No 2, which has as its first signatory Senator Zanda, and against the motion for a resolution No 1, which was first signed by Senator Barozzino. With regard to motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by the Group of the North Legacy, there are in principle shared demands in it, but in fact we should make another twenty-five, because cases such as the one mentioned, relating to the former Fibronit company, are also present in other cities. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). It's because you only talked about Casale Monferrato. Mr Bobba, State Secretary for Labour and Social Policy. It seems inappropriate from this point of view. With regard to the resolution tabled by the 5 Star Movement Group, since it arrived five minutes ago... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. However, the opinion is against the Group's motion for a resolution... SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr. Undersecretary, take the time to read it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, I'm sorry, but that's exactly what you're saying. He reserves the right to give an opinion after reading it. Mr Lezzi (M5S). But you suggested a contrary opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I asked whether the opinion was against the motion for a resolution No 3, on which he had made a comment and not an opinion. So calm down. You're welcome, Undersecretary. Mr Bobba, State Secretary for Labour and Social Policy. I just said that, having not yet had the opportunity to read the motion for a resolution tabled by the 5 Star Movement in detail, and providing the same about fifteen or sixteen commitments to the Government, I need to have some time to evaluate it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u63	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, since the Government representative has not given his opinion on our proposal, I think it is appropriate to suspend the work and give the Government representative the opportunity to read in full the motion for a resolution that we have tabled within the time limits that the Rules of Procedure itself allow. Therefore, I would ask you not to proceed with the explanations of vote, since the opinion has not been given on a motion for a resolution. The Government must express itself in a favourable or contrary way.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u64	That seems to me to be a fair objection. I think that in ten minutes the government representative will have the opportunity to express himself. The sitting is therefore suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 11.26 a.m. and resumed at 11.39 a.m.) I call the representative of the Government, to whom I would also like to speak on motion for a resolution No 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u65	Mr President, precisely because, as I said, I do not have a position which is contrary in principle, I would ask that the motion for a resolution No 2 be incorporated in the following way: where it is referred to in the system of "integral reclamation of sites" instead of the generic term "sites" it would be preferable to specify: "all sites recognised at national level". This would include all sites, including Broni's. If the Group of the Party of European Socialists agrees, then this integration could be done, which would also incorporate the motion of the League Group, contained in motion for resolution No 3. With regard to motion for a resolution No 4 of the 5 Star Movement Group, the opinion is structured. On the first and second paragraphs of the operative part, the Government's opinion is favourable. On the other hand, with regard to the third commitment, I propose a more concise and general rewording, with the following text: "to promote the culture of occupational health and safety also in the context of training and education." With regard to the third paragraph of the on-farm training scheme, I would like to introduce the following words: With regard to the paragraph of the training booklet and the exportability of training, the opinion is favourable, while on the commitment concerning the health file I would quote the following words: The opinion is opposed to the commitment to preventive measures, because it seems to me too general, and to the point where it is proposed to revise and enhance equality bodies. I would then rephrase the commitment in the exercise of the delegation as follows: In the exercise of the delegation referred to in article 1, paragraph 7, letter l), of law n. 183 of 2014, to operate so that the coordination of the inspections of the work determines a higher quality of the controls and not a leveling to the decrease of the same. Anything that comes after that, I'd take care of.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u66	In summary, there is a motion for a rewording of motion for a resolution No 4, whereas there is a proposal for an absorption in motion No 2 of certain aspects of motion No 3, so it is necessary first of all to know whether the proposers of motions for resolutions Nos 3 and 4 are in favour. Two and three agree. Senator Zanda, the Government has proposed to incorporate into the motion for a resolution of which it is first signatory certain aspects of motion for resolution No 3, first signed by Senator Centinaio, to arrive at a more widely shared proposal. Do you agree? ZANDA (PD). I agree.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u69	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to thank the President of the Commission for having spoken as well as the Undersecretary. In our view, it was useful not to come to a complete closure of our motion for a resolution in this passage, which contains a specific subject which is also available in the other motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u70	Therefore, motion for a resolution No 3 is withdrawn in the light of the rewording, accepted by the first signatory, Senator Zanda, of motion for a resolution No 2, to which I also imagine the signatures of the senators of the Northern League Group are added. Senator Fucksia, do you accept the rewording of motion for a resolution No. 4 tabled by the representative of the Government? FUCKSIA (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. To sum up, the President gave an opinion against the motion for a resolution No 1, a favourable opinion on motion for a resolution No 2, as reworded and extended to other signatories with the adoption of motion No 3, which is withdrawn, and a favourable opinion on motion No 4 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u73	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, before we move on to the explanation of vote, I would like to thank the President of the Commission once again and make a clarification. We have tabled a motion for a resolution which specifically concerned - I would say almost exclusively - the plant in Broni, in the province of Pavia, because there has been a wide discussion also in the regional and municipal, in which we have tried to bring to light the difficulties of the reclamation of a site that had already received about 5.4 million euros from the State and about 1.3 million euros from the Region. However, this site needs about 20 million euros for reclamation. The motion for a resolution No 3 and other documents which have been tabled in the Senate actually called for a position by the Government to raise funds and put this site in a position to be reclaimed. Our Group has put forward a question so that the government can recover this money because in Broni we must not continue to die, since the deaths do not only concern former workers, but also those who have breathed that air not really healthy around the company in recent years. Returning to the explanation of vote on the work done in the Commission, I would like to begin by thanking the President and the members of the Commission on behalf of my Group. The work they have done has been very thorough, with hearings and inspections both abroad and in Italy. The institutional bodies responsible for preventing and combating accidents at work (e.g. INAIL, IPSEMA, ISPESL) and those involved in the function of institutions providing benefits and allowances linked to disability or disability related to a cause of service (INPS, INPDAP) were heard. We have opened a constant dialogue with those involved in the phenomenon of accidents at work, employers' and workers' trade unions, employers' organisations, safety experts such as occupational doctors, engineers, specialists in prevention and occupational hygiene. Each, for the part of his own competence, has evidenced the criticalities and the problems deriving from the application of the Single Text, that the representatives of the entrepreneurial world have not little blamed for the too many formal and bureaucratic requirements and the tightening of the sanctioning apparatus. We in the League can certainly not wrong them, because we have always believed that real protection of workers in the workplace and a concrete knowledge of the risks of accidents at work is based on a logic of prevention, information and continuing training, both on the ground and in the classroom, which takes into account the size of the company and the specific needs of the different production sectors. Targeted prevention, accompanied by formal and sanctioning measures, but linked to the increased risk of sites. We are convinced that the zero risk for companies does not exist, but fortunately the historical series of the number of accidents at work continues its decreasing trend. In 2013, in fact, the INAIL registered about 700,000 complaints: about 50,000 fewer than in the previous year, equivalent to a reduction of almost 7%, which rises to 21% in comparison with the same figure for 2009. On the other hand, accidents recognised at work by the Institute decreased by more than 9 percent, from over 500,000 in 2012 to about 457,000 last year. However, these figures must be supplemented by accidents occurring in undeclared work and which the INAIL estimates in about 200,000 per year. The data, therefore, are far from comforting. The same tell us, however, that 85% of accidents at work are mainly caused by subjectively inadequate conduct rather than by structural deficiencies in the workplace. For us in the League, this confirms what we have always argued, especially during the discussion and approval of Law no. 123 of 2007, concerning the adoption of a single text on the safety of work: less demagogy and more prevention; less harassment and more training. We have stressed this and we are repeating it today. We believe, in fact, that the main problem is not so much the lack of guaranteed rules, but the difficulty of translating the regulatory complex into concrete and real safeguards in the workplace. The legislative decree of 9 April 2008, n. 81, implementing, precisely, the law n. 123 of 2007, can be considered a missed opportunity: it should have meant a step forward in the protection of workers in the workplace, through bureaucratic certainties and simplifications, inspired by innovative logics of prevention and continuous training, information, advice and integration between the various supervisory bodies (ASL, INAIL and labour inspectors). Indeed, the only innovation that can be found in the text - and it certainly does not help to reduce the number of accidents and improve the safety conditions in the workplace - is an excessive tightening of the sanctioning system, which does not take into account the proportionality criterion between formal and substantive requirements. One hundred examples can be given, and someone wants to do so in this House so that it is clear to those who listen from home what can happen. Just think that if the employer appoints the competent doctor, but forgets to indicate his name in the risk assessment document incurs a penalty of up to 15,000 euros. Or more: the preparation of the risk assessment document without prior consultation of the employee representative for safety involves a criminal penalty of up to 15,000 euros. It is a measure full of bureaucracy, preventive communications, transmissions of documents, convocations of meetings; paths that have nothing to do with training on the ground and at the table, compulsory road for a concrete knowledge of the risks and a real protection of the worker. A lot of paper, but then, when you get to the yards and companies, everything becomes more complicated. The last INAIL report on accidents at work confirmed that, as in previous years, the sectors with the far higher accident frequency index are metalworking, in steel and metallurgy, the processing of non-metallic minerals (glass and especially ceramics in construction), woodworking and construction, highlighting that the greater risk is recorded in companies with more than 30 employees. As regards the decrease in the percentage of accidents, I would also make a serious reflection on the fact that the economic crisis, especially in the building industry, has affected by reducing working hours by about 50%, and that, in my opinion, has led to a fall in accidents. White deaths are not and must not become a malaise of our society (someone has already written it in some book). I believe that it is clear that a country which considers itself civil cannot fail to have special attention to the world of work; but I also believe that a certain clarity in the compilation of documents and also in relation to companies, which sometimes interact on overlapping processes, is necessary by a Parliament that must nevertheless put these subjects in a position to be serene in the work. We therefore welcome the debate in this House on the work carried out by the Commission of Inquiry, which represents an opportunity for us to understand the dramatic nature of the issues we have addressed - and will continue to address - and to draw the attention of the Commission to certain important issues relating to the safety and health protection of workers in the workplace, on which policy has committed itself to giving certain answers. I believe that the Commission has done an excellent job and I thank the President for that. We will see, then, over the next few months, if anything good comes to this House. [[Applause from Senators Comaroli and Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u76	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we shall vote in favour of our motion for a resolution and, since you have written here and there the word security, we shall abstain on the others only out of respect for this word. You see, President Fabbri, when we talk about safety, we do not talk about method and merit. I have only spoken of merit and I invite you - I mean it very humbly - to read our proposals, because you may not have read them. I'll give you two examples, and then I'll focus on what I want to say. You have also spoken of SINP - National Information System for Prevention: we have asked that the RLS, i.e. workers' representatives, should also have access to it. What are we talking about? Workers' representatives are asked to have access to this computer service. Let me see what's weird. It is strange, rather, the attitude of this Government. It has been said that masters and workers are on the same level, but these things must not be said. [[Applause from Senator Campanella]] Workers must respect work and I assure you that they do, but they cannot be placed on the same level. I'll give you two concrete examples, so we can figure out what we're talking about. I don't think the wife of an employer, of a master, has ten minutes to go to the bathroom, in which she has to wash and provide for her own hygiene. We are talking about women who, once a month, have different physiological needs from those of man and the difficulties they have, to go to the bathroom, in a large company. One simple thing has been said: it is precisely the structure that cannot allow such a thing. When we talk about these things we have to be careful, otherwise we risk speaking in an abstract way. We asked the government to commit itself to something that was said at the last hearing: I would like to hear it. We have proposed that the competent doctor of the company be removed from the economic dependence of the employer, because this would be more free and would have a different strength and autonomy to express what he thinks. We have proposed another very simple thing: that the doctor - of course we refer to large companies - is present also during the night shift. The doctor's here during the sessions. What's strange about this request? Yet it seems that we have asked for things that are neither in heaven nor on earth. We have asked the government to commit itself to abolishing the premium wage mechanism for INAIL employees linked to the reduction of recognized occupational diseases. Why did we make this request? Occupational diseases are reduced if there is prevention. You cannot give the premium on the grounds that you recognize the occupational disease or not to the worker. These are very simple things, which concern the issue of safety in substance, because safety is merit. I have tried, in every way, to always make my contribution to the Commission and I really do recognise the attention of President Fabbri. But attention must not only be present in words, but also in deeds. I am used to listening to those who are being audited, even those whose opinions I do not share: I am always present in the Commission - my colleagues can testify to that - and I also listen to those who are farther away from my thinking. This is democracy for me. I have made examples, because everyone - even those who listen to us outside this House - must understand what we are talking about, otherwise we are talking about abstract things. This government is very good at making what doesn't exist appear. They're gonna tell us soon that donkeys fly and we're gonna believe it in here, but the reality out there is quite different. Why, then, have I allowed myself to make passages on the reduction of rights and security? I would like to read a few facts that we have been given: according to the International Labour Organization, some 2,350,000 workers die in the world over a year, including 300,000 for accidents and another 2,000,000 for occupational diseases: we are talking about 5,500 workers a day. From my point of view, it's a disaster, a social failure. Unfortunately, I too have experienced these tragedies in my place of work, in the factory where I worked: losing comrades, colleagues, working friends - let's call them that because otherwise someone can be offended, but for me they are workmates - it is a tear that you carry with you all your life. We're talking about people leaving their families to go to work. Therefore, to the criticisms made of the commitments contained in the resolution at my first signature, I respond that I really want to talk about security: someone should explain to me why it is not possible for the RLS to join the SINP, to view the hours. However, this Government does not explain, why it is on one side only; this Government and its majority have chosen to stand on one side only. [[Applause from Senators Campanella and De Pin]] So, the workers don't have to count for anything, and when we say everyone has to be on the same side, we're making fun of each other. A few days ago in the Commission, we audited a really excellent figure, and I was particularly struck by a phrase that he said: politics should not do charity - he also said something else; I must be correct - so give something as if it were charity, but it must be on the same level. In order to do so, dear President, workers must be placed in a position to say that something may not be right. I use a similitude I've always done. Work, as well as life, is like a train; it travels on two tracks: one is made of rights and another of duties. Well, workers have a lot of duties and discharge them all, but workers' rights no longer speak of anyone, and without workers' rights - let us not make fun of people, let us not deceive them - security cannot be guaranteed. We were also told during the last audition; whoever was auditioned said so, and we also felt it with the non-answers of the company's top management. The data we are given on the situation in Italy tell us that accidents in general and even fatal accidents are falling, but nobody says that in the last five years the integration fund has skyrocketed, that the unemployment rate has doubled, reaching 13%. It is not said that black work is no longer controlled. So, what data are we talking about? Do we want to escape reality? I personally do not want to run away from reality, I want to remain on the subject of the problems, and by virtue of that I mean that the workers must do their duty, yes, but they must have guaranteed their rights. This is for me to ensure, perhaps, safety in the workplace. I take up a speech to which I have only partly mentioned: when a worker loses his life in the workplace and as I said before I do not wish anyone to live such a situation... [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, give me one more minute. I usually never take more time than I have. I was saying that families are experiencing an unprecedented drama; there are people who no longer recover. I don't think anyone can ever want someone else's death - it's good to avoid misunderstandings and manipulations - but we have to make sure that each of us does everything we can to ensure that these things don't happen. In conclusion, I remember that until recently everyone said that on the issue of safety it is almost impossible to reach the zero quota, but that we had to get very close to it. With the cancellation of rights, ladies and gentlemen, we go to the other side. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed Groups and the Senators Ricchiuti and Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u79	ANITORI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Area voted in favour of the interim report on the work carried out. First of all, we wanted to express our satisfaction with the work done by the President and the Commission as a whole, especially with the ability to listen and to speak with experts in the sector: trade unions, institutions, associations and companies. In this way it was possible to analyse and metabolize, and thus focus on intervention actions, in order to mitigate the serious problem affecting workers' health. We want to emphasise here certain points which, among the many subjects of work and discussion by the Commission, have more marked our interest. I am referring in particular to the need to revisit and modernise the safety rules of Legislative Decree 81 of 2008: it is no longer possible to act on legislative simplification in the field of safety at work, especially as regards formal compliance with administrative burden resolutions. We are also referring to simplifications in terms of communications and notifications in the yards with appropriate computerized procedures that reduce the time for both the enterprise and the public administration. We remain convinced that the decrees have begun to harmonize and coordinate all the innumerable legislative provisions that over time have done nothing but make the timely application of the rules uncertain and difficult. As the Commission's work rightly confirms, however, further simplification mechanisms must be sought, especially to protect the worker, which will enable the company to save money in order to invest in safety. Another important element is to encourage the peculiarity of virtuous enterprises in terms of safety at work and prevention in risk assessment and management. It is in fact unthinkable that everything is carried out by directing the action to the inspection contrast, without identifying paths of accompaniment to the prevention and to the good practices, especially using incentive mechanisms. The numerous hearings also revealed the need to ensure personal support for companies investing in improving safety standards. The INAIL decision to reduce the increase in prices for companies that make improvements in safety is actually not understandable, partly because the costs associated with accidents are reduced - and by a lot -. So much so that the management of health and safety at work is an integral part of the company's management. With the evaluation and management of quality risk, certainly aimed at grouping health and safety objectives, especially in terms of the effectiveness and efficiency of a company, important results are achieved, especially as a progressive resolution of the total costs resulting from accidents, accidents and occupational diseases, in order to minimize the potential risks also for customers and suppliers, such as improvement of health and safety levels, as well as the image and organisation of the company. The aim of risk assessment and therefore of risk management is above all to allow the adoption of measures necessary for the protection of the safety and health of workers. This is why finding incentive solutions that allow real, adequate and appropriate applications of prevention interventions is the keystone for healthy and suitable workplaces. Another objective, which is equally important - as the report points out - is the issue of training. There is no prevention strategy that keeps, unless we start from shared paths, aimed at promoting prevention, through training and information. The system only works if there is continuous knowledge of the rights and duties of workers and employers. In fact, in the end there will certainly be better safety standards in companies that will have the opportunity to invest in risk management systems, training courses and information campaigns. We would like to point out that investment in job prevention (technological, training and IT) is generally always effective in reducing accidents. Another important aspect of the Commission's work is the desire to maximise the work of actors and skills for better, more homogeneous, more unique and uniform management of both safety in the workplace and working relations. Some, including Minister Poletti, think of the creation of an agency as the only solution to the long-standing problems of an economic, political, regulatory and technical nature that weigh down and debase functions, for some, in a regulatory context sometimes uneven and fragmentary, with inspection tasks managed in different ways depending on the administration of the controllers but ultimately directed to the same entrepreneurs who, let's face it, seem disoriented and sometimes also vexed, perhaps unintentionally. Of course, there is a need for non-fiction but operational coordination that defines once and for all the long-standing problem of overlapping controls and inspections, mainly due to duplication of expertise. Perhaps, the agency organized, precisely, in order to avoid the replica of controls of all the functions of protection of the safety and health of the workers carried out from ASL, ARPA, Ministry of the job, of the health, the transports, the economic development, the defense, the customs, the harbour authorities and the legality of the relationships workers carried out from INPS and INAIL would manage to mitigate, as we have previously supported, these difficult and complicated situations, besides to avoid losses of time and working hours to the companies. Finally, another interesting topic is the issue of gender, an important and qualifying objective as well as a complex one. It is necessary to identify mechanisms and virtuous processes that help to enhance the quality of life of women who certainly suffer the negative gap of the many activities they are forced to carry out as mothers and wives as well as workers. Many times this theme has seen interventions, especially by personal will, perhaps only addressed to women in maternity, i.e. leopard-spotted interventions and only in some parts of the country. The aforementioned legislative decree n. 81 has in this sense specified and highlighted in particular some factors related to specificity and conditions that were very often forgotten by employers in the context of their own risk assessment. A working environment based on organizational well-being and the absence of any form of discrimination is functional to guarantee safety conditions at work in order to prevent and remove the risk from stress. We therefore consider, in the light of what it means, that we welcome the work done by the Commission. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Favero.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u82	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of all the motions for resolutions tabled, sharing the basic principles. Let us also realise that we are in the middle of our life's journey, halfway through, so the Commission will have the opportunity to improve and better direct the objectives in the next six months. I particularly share, and I congratulate the senator, the timely report by my colleague, Mrs Anitori, which I fully support. I propose to the Commission, in summary, that, in the light of the six-monthly report, the rules which had been provisionally established at the first sitting should also be reviewed. After that it would be necessary to proceed to everything that has emerged of the submerged, that is of all those accidents that we know today are concentrated in construction and metal mechanics but also in other sectors (to date) underestimated, like the hospital one or in the great distribution or in the transports and logistics: those sectors where the precariousness and the parcelling of the administered job creates of the critical ones in terms of risk. I also mean those four or five million farmers, traders, VAT consignments and freelancers who escape the INPS and those three million totally invisible, i.e. non-formal regulars that correspond, on the whole, to one third of the working population. We must protect everyone and not just those who turn out at INAIL. After that we should also review occupational diseases and therefore the submerged one, and in this, of course, the implementation of the SINP will play a decisive role. Here too, however, we must increasingly project ourselves into the effectiveness of what we do, by providing suitable training and tools, otherwise we will only do formal and costly tasks in terms of time and resources. We need to simplify. We've said that in every way. It's easy to be difficult, but it's very difficult to be easy, apparently: having clarity about goals, participating in comparison, listening and, above all, using experience and common sense can help a lot in this. Similarly, it may be useful to think about coordinating all activities in a sort of national integrated direction, rebuilding a kind of nervous system, where the central nervous system can also be articulated by taking the various articles 5, 6, 9 and 12 of Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2008. Article 5 refers to the Committee for the Address and Evaluation of Active Policies for National Coordination of Supervisory Activities, composed of 13 members, established at the MISE. This Committee gives the national guidelines on safety, health and supervisory coordination. Article 6 provides for the establishment of the Permanent Consultative Commission on Health and Safety at Work, composed of 32 components. It examines many application problems, prepares the report and elaborates the qualification criteria of the trainer. Then we have the example of what we have not been simple. The absurdity of the rule that should speed us up in simplification is the Commission's question. The eight members of this Commission, established by Article 12 of the same legislative decree No 81, are responsible for answering general questions on the application of the legislation. Basically, legislation is so difficult, that by default it creates doubts and needs clarity on it. To this we must also associate the fact that each Autonomous Region and Province has a regional coordination committee, provided for in Article 7. In my opinion, a single integrated table, where several sub-groups can work on specific topics, would be a good way to rationalise expenditure, shorten time and move faster towards the goal. Let us remember that in the 24-hour society and globalisation we are all more exposed to risks, which are increasingly different. It would also be appropriate, from the point of view of training, to review the rules on training, which have the original sin of being related to the ATECO codes, which are commercial indices and not risk indices. Legislative Decree No. 81 has encased training, sometimes with the repetition of training courses that should instead be more focused on risk, also for a greater evaluation of effectiveness. Let us remember to promote this culture of security. We remember that health and safety are not objectives that are achieved by chance or due, but are the result of a collective work and consensus, a public investment, coordination, an awareness that must take advantage of the experience and the most virtuous examples. We must invest a great deal in the culture of prevention and security, including by beginning to adopt these resolutions. Then I wanted to answer Senator Barozzino, who complained that the workers were in the background. I would remind him then that Law No 833 of 1978 setting up the National Health Service in Article 2 (8) (b) provides: "the safety of work, with the participation of workers and their organizations, to prevent and eliminate conditions detrimental to health and to ensure the necessary tools and services in factories and other workplaces." All this means that, even at the time of the establishment of the National Health Service, the role of workers and their RLS representatives had been considered central. This role must not fail, at a time when the welfare itself can be put at risk by a particularly problematic situation. Do not invest in this, in fact, means not making investments that are sometimes expensive but are functional to the objectives. Of course, it is true that the worker does not directly access the SINP, but neither does the employer directly access it, as in fact it is right that it is. If the SINP organizes it the INAIL or its contact person or the ASL, who also suffer this deficiency, the problems related to the budgets and, therefore, have a problem of resources and structures, it must be considered that these structures are also penalized in their services. It is also true, however, that the data, the results of the training flows must, by law, be communicated to all and made public. To this end, it would be very useful, for example, to make it easier and faster to access some websites where you can consult the results, the risk indices, but also the virtuous examples to imitate, so that you do not always think about the worst but also act in a positive perspective aimed at the circulation of ideas and proposals. Finally, I would like to add that we need to invest in prevention and regulate the cases in accordance with the European directives and suggested by them, without underestimating ourselves. Another aspect that I wanted to address - and I start to conclude - is to guarantee the same safety to everyone, thus overcoming the unevenness of the productive fabric, which is so important today, especially in the small companies that, let us remember, make up 95% of our productive fabric and where we often have less than ten employees. They are companies that must also be helped through easy paths and in this also risk assessment can provide useful models, which must be easy to learn and easily applicable. Certainly something has already been done in this area, but we certainly need to do much more. I conclude by saying that, in my opinion, the assumptions, that is, listening, are the right ones, but also the criticalities must represent an opportunity to do better and better. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u83	They are present on the tribune, to follow the work of the Senate, the students and teachers of the Institute inclusive state, secondary school of first degree Galilei of Ponzano Veneto, in the province of Treviso, and the Institute inclusive state, secondary school of first degree .Dante Alighieri of Oppido Mamertina, in the province of Reggio Calabria, to which we address a greeting and we thank for their visit. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u86	Serafini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Committee of Inquiry into Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases has developed a process of investigation which I believe I share, if the dialogue with the trade unions and the relevant bodies is strengthened. This is the path on which to move the next steps to acquire elements and observations on the macro and microproblems of accidents. It is clear that the Commission deals with cases and delicate situations, going through multiple events that affect the productive realities of the country: agriculture, industry, construction, domestic work and public administration. It is often the fatality that affects, at other times the carelessness and the lack of knowledge of the rules, the non-compliance with the national business contracts. The interest of the Security Commission in this country's major infrastructure works must also be confirmed. The study of the coordination model for the supervision of the Expo's work with regard to safety was very useful and fruitful. The hearings held in Milan provided not always consistent but sometimes critical ideas on which the Commission will continue to address later. In fact, if we want to work to drastically reduce accidents, it is necessary to intervene on the types of occupational diseases, also acting on the issue of accidents in itineraries; we need to investigate the causes, organizational factors, controls, supervision, safety culture, training and economic incentives. The establishment of a Single Labour Inspection Agency should be a turning point for coordinating inspection forces and allowing specific interventions with high technical competence through specialised operational units: databases and liaison with the National Prevention Information System (SINP). To this end, it would be desirable to involve the professional assets of the technicians of the former Provinces, without increasing costs. These are short-term proposals, which must be in-depth and brought down in reality. As a Commission, we must set up a discussion to examine post-injury assistance, which concerns family members and human aspects that are sometimes complex and leave a mark for the whole of life. We need a constant dialogue, not only with accident agencies, but also with private insurance companies, which are an important part of the problem. I believe that it is appropriate to study and implement initiatives that also start from school, inserting specific lessons and teachings every month. Today the world of work is linked to technology and professional preparation, because any technical means used (whether it be a computer, or a tractor), precisely because it is a complex machine, cannot be used by the DIY method. Finally, we still have to insist on the question of asbestos, which is a social scourge, which occupies and will occupy the judicial, insurance, social security and health system of our country. After the judgment of the Court of Cassation on the Eternit case, which declared the limitation of the crime of disaster, the serious problem arises of effective protection of the victims and their families and of entire territories afflicted by asbestos-related diseases, such as Casale Monferrato, Broni and Monfalcone. So let us continue along the path that has been taken so far, with the knowledge that there is still so much to be done, but that the important thing is to continue. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u89	Borioli (PD). Mr President, of course, I am voting in favour of the Democratic Group's first-signed resolution by Senator Zanda, which has been amended in order to supplement and accept the motion tabled by my colleagues in the North League. I also voted in favour of the first-signed resolution by Senator Fucksia, as reworded at the suggestion - accepted - by the representative of the Government. I would like to make a few comments on the reasons why we are voting in favour of this report. The first consideration is as follows. As has been pointed out in many speeches, in this first phase of the Commission's work we have worked on the basis of a strong and decisive impetus from the President, whom I too would like to take this opportunity to thank not in a ritual way for the work that has been done. The task that - I believe - we have tried to carry out at best was to investigate, with the instrument of the investigation (feeling all the subjects that have been remembered), on which are today the main emergencies in the field of occupational safety and diseases, as well as of all the criticalities that concern the functioning and effectiveness of the instruments that are made available at this time by the norms and technical structures to counter these phenomena. As everyone has acknowledged, I believe that this work has led to a widely shared outcome in the report which the President presented to the Commission and which was then presented to the House. This report - I would like to remind you, because I believe this to be a relevant political and parliamentary fact - has been adopted virtually unanimously, with only one abstention in the Commission. Therefore, the broad convergence that is recorded here today around the text of the non-majority resolution (because it is a resolution that, as I said, collects much wider shares) has its natural derivation in the fact that this - I am referring to the first-signed resolution by Senator Zanda - basically translates the conclusions of the report in a plastic way. There is therefore a logic and consistency in this fact which I consider to be positive, because - in this sense I agree with what Senator Fabbri said - on this subject I believe that the opposition between the logic of government and the majority and the logic of opposition should not necessarily be the fulcrum around which our debate is articulated. From this point of view, I would also like to say that I have listened very carefully and very respectfully, as I always do in the Commission, to Senator Barozzino's speech, that I sometimes listen more carefully than I do with others, simply because I recognise my colleague's ability to bring some elements of witness and direct knowledge that are valuable to our work. On this, in a non-controversial way, however, I want to say that precisely talking about merit, the resolution on which we expressed our favourable voting orientation does nothing but weave the praises of something: the resolution is the indication of a sequence of critical points against which the Government undertakes to intervene with the desired and necessary actions that serve to overcome the critical issues. We refer, for example, to the sectorality and the separation of the activity of the inspection forces, which travel according to totally separate vertical logics that sometimes produce the fact - and this we have found hearing the people involved - that perhaps on the same sector, or even on the same company, more inspection interventions of different subjects that do not communicate with each other, and then is left uncovered a vast field on which the inspection activities never take place and where therefore it is also presumed that illegality and non-compliance with the rules on safety, which are largely transgressed. This is one of the points in the report and the need for coordination is strongly highlighted. We have also recalled the need - linked to what Senator Pelino said - to attack a point: today there is very often, on the safety at work, a redundancy of norms and obligations for companies only of a bureaucratic nature and then it is not possible, instead, through the forms of simplification, to encourage all those companies that virtuously want to invest in safety and to make downstream controls on compliance with the rules and standards of security more binding, extended and effective. We have identified in the resolution a fundamental point that has been reported to us, for example, in the course of the hearings, by some authoritative magistrates of this country: we have tried to say that it is necessary to produce a homogenization upwards of the qualification and specific competence of the various prosecutors, especially the smaller ones, on a field that has some elements of specialties that today see territorial unevenness so that also the persecution of illegalities and the sanctions that derive from it both in criminal and administrative are applied in an uneven way, because not all the judicial structures called to intervene in this field have the same competence and the same instruments. I now come to the final point, because I do not want to go too far. You, Senator Barozzino, referred to a question that I consider relevant, namely that of the failure to implement the National Information System for Workplace Prevention (SINP), which is an urgent problem because it is a tool that in fact has never become fully operational according to what it was intended to do. In this regard, you have put forward an issue which I believe deserves further consideration, namely how workers participate in this system. Personally, I believe that this is an issue which should be further explored and developed in the Commissions on merit, and also in ours for the stimuli it can give. Let us bear in mind, however, that today a regulation is in force, which is Legislative Decree No. 81 of 9 April 2008, in which the modalities of participation of social representatives in the SINP are defined in a rather detailed way. I believe that the subject you are putting must be addressed above all and above all in the committees of merit and I believe that it was to some extent imprudent to define a method already today, by engaging the Government in a direction that I believe, even for Parliament's prerogatives, deserves to be studied first in the relevant committees. Even on a personal basis, as a member and as the Democratic Party's leader in the Committee of Inquiry into Accidents at Work, I believe that this is an interesting work perspective. I therefore do not see in this an attitude of rejection in relation to an instance which you have proposed and which I consider to be relevant. Finally, let me stress the question of asbestos, which is very close to my heart, also because of my geographical origin. I believe that significant progress has been made on this front, including through the legislation that has been produced over the last few months, starting in some way from the shock, from the understandable trauma that in all of us has determined the judgment by which the Court of Cassation has sent the perpetrators of that massacre acquitted. I therefore believe that it is important in this respect to have identified a specific point in Senator Zanda's first-signed motion for a resolution. The reference is not only to a geographical area, as evidenced also by the transposition of the indications of colleagues of the League, but to a great national issue, which I believe has produced in all a step of quality and awareness on the ground of the fundamental need to protect safety in the workplace, as well as the effects that safety in the workplace and health protection can have more widely for the national community. I believe that having indicated this element here, which is crossed with what we have begun to introduce in an important way with the measure on eco-reactors, as well as with the measures contained in the law of stability, is a sign of the work we have done. Certainly the work ahead is still a lot, but we are starting to move in the right direction. That is why I believe that the vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 2 (text 2) can make our country move in this direction as a whole. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Fuksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u90	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions, which will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Barozzino and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 1 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2, signed by Senator Zanda and other senators, which has been reworded, absorbing requests and proposals from motion for a resolution No 3, signed by Senator Centinario and other senators, who have been withdrawn by the presenters, who have added their signatures to motion for a resolution No 2 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 2 (text 2), tabled by Senators Zanda, Romani Paolo, Schifani, Zeller, Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Motion for a resolution No 3 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 4 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4 (text 2), tabled by Senator Fuksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The vote on the instrument of address will be taken at the end of the debate on the draft agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u93	MINEO (PD). Mr President, I would have liked to speak this morning for no more than 30 seconds during the speeches on the composition of the standing committees, but your colleague Mr Lanzillotta told me that I could not, as part of the PD Group, because my Parent Group had already spoken. However, I would like to leave to the record my embarrassment and also the deep disagreement over the things that the PD's leader, Senator Zanda, said this morning. The first is as follows: by quoting Mrs De Petris who, as we know, is President of the Mixed Group, she told her that she had been elected with the votes of the Democratic Party. I would like to remind Senator Zanda that he and I have also been elected by the votes of the Left, Ecology and Freedom, because in 2013 we presented ourselves with a coalition. I would also like to remind everyone that the majority prize that has been won in the House, and thanks to which an electoral law called Italicum has become the law of the State, has been obtained by the coalition in which there were both Left, Ecology and Freedom that the Democratic Party: so you should be careful to claim the possession of votes: in democracy no one is master of votes. The second thing I would like to say to everyone, Mr President, also to you, is that I was very surprised by a sentence from Senator Zanda when he said that three Senators of the Democratic Party would support the appointment as President of the Mixed Group of Senator De Petris. So, the Democratic Party, without my knowledge, rigged the election of the President of the Mixed Group? And did the presidency of the Senate know? Perhaps that is why there are two Mixed Groups in this House: one called Mixed and the other LAG? I would like to know why it is essential, Mr President, that the rules apply to everyone. Of course, a senator who is not a Holding Company cannot speak on the point of order, but it must also be obvious that there is a Mixed Group. Therefore, I would like to understand who was aware and what the point of that action was this morning unveiled by my President Zanda. I'm not stopping here. I shall be very brief, but I would like to add another point. The rights of the majority cannot always be defended at all costs. If, for example, parliamentarians who were part of a center alliance led by Senator Monti have passed into the ranks... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u94	Senator, I'll give you a chance to finish, but there are a lot of speeches planned, so I'm gonna have to be fiscal.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u95	MINEO (PD). I want to say that if we accept the transitions from one group to another if it suits the majority, then we must also be respectful of minorities. I end by reminding Senator Zanda that I was replaced after starting the preliminary debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and it was said by Senator Zanda that this did not change the substance of Article 67 of the Constitution with regard to the Commissions, that there has never been a debate on this issue, either in the Group or in the Senate. So on the rules of the game you should be more careful. [[Applause from the Mixed and Mixed Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u96	Moreover, the subject is so broad that - alas - the speeches at the end of the sitting cannot, so to speak, resolve it. There's gonna be more times to do that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u99	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, no prescription for Davide Cervia. There is little time left: in less than a month, the Ministries of Defense and Justice could be saved by the prescription in the civil trial brought against them by Marisa Gentile and her two children, Erika and Daniele Cervia. The prescription will prevent the arrival of a truth, terrible and heartbreaking, largely already confirmed by testimonies, facts and documents. In twenty-five years - a quarter of a century - the Italian State, in fact, stood still in front of the kidnapping of the citizen Davide Cervia, kidnapped and stolen from his family, perhaps sold to foreign countries for its high skills in the field of electronic wars, radar systems and targeting. I am referring to a State which, with negligence, misguidedness, hidden information and reluctant testimony, has prevented David from being at least searched for, if not found and freed. We call on the President-in-Office of the Council to give a mandate to the State, which represents the ministries referred to in court, to waive the limitation. You give up the prescription because the deviant and guilty State, which will be saved for the beginning of the term, is not what we honor to represent. He renounced the prescription because that September 12, 1990, day of the kidnapping, an eyewitness saw with his own eyes David forced into a car and carried away between desperate screams and invocations of help, but for years he was considered unreliable investigators, while those who invented false leads were guaranteed protection and even anonymity. Renunciation of the prescription because, for four years, the Italian Navy sold Davide for a simple electrician, providing as many as four different matricular sheets, false and hesitant also them. Renunciation of the prescription because the Cervia family had to come to occupy for hours the office of a minister to obtain the real manuscript of Davide Cervia, the one that attested its real competences. Forsake the prescription because Marisa and her children, for a quarter of a century, were reached by silent phone calls in the middle of the night, threats, intimidating letters, mythomans, offerings of money to stop looking for him. Give up the prescription because those who dared to design David's fake return to their families, seven years after the kidnapping, did so to break their legs definitively and annihilate all desire for research, generating illusions and false hopes. Give up the prescriptions and let this process take its course. Last week we addressed an urgent question, which still has no answer, and today we will also file a motion that commits the Government to give up the prescription, hoping that it can be put to the vote as soon as possible. The hearing will be held next June 11th. It is not enough simply to say a few words on this matter; a concrete act is needed. The President-in-Office of the Council must give up the time limit for a truth to come. This is the appeal we make on behalf of family members. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u102	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, two nights ago, in the broadcast "Next" on RAI 2, we heard the President of BNL and Cinecittà Studios, Luigi Abete, tell a lot of lies about Cinecittà. Let me explain: Luigi Abete said he wants to relaunch Cinecittà and Italian cinema. It is not true: on Cinecittà, which has been in decline for years, there is a construction speculation of cosmic proportions, which has nothing to do with Italian cinema. They are building a fitness center and a hotel, on state-owned territories, that belong to the city of Rome and that used to make movies. Since the images that flowed during the broadcast were those of the movie "Gangs of New York", shot in 2002, this means that nothing has happened in these years. Not only has Luigi Abete insulted Italian citizens and all film operators, but also the workers in the film industry - a category I am proud to be part of - because he is firing and moving the workers of the last laboratories that are still standing in Cinecittà, saying that it is these workers who do not want to adapt to technological change. That is not the case, because that is not the case. Secondly, I wonder what is the point of dismissing very competent technicians when they want to re-launch the cinema and call for new international film productions in Rome. Rather, the laboratories should be expanded. Unfortunately, the glory of Cinecittà has remained only one brand, which is the second best known in the world after the Ferrari brand, which Mr. Abete is exploiting to do entertainment, certainly not to re-launch the cinema. Here it is necessary, in the first place, for Mr Luigi Abete to be denied by the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and by the political forces of government and majority, the same ones that come to this House every time there is the nomination for an Oscar to be beautiful, saying how good Italian cinema, technicians and directors are. Cinema in Italy is dying and productions come only because there is tax credit: everything else is not managed in a useful and productive way. First of all, the brand is a very important thing, built with the competence and work of Italians and belongs to all Italians. It belongs to the cinema and must no longer be the subject of speculation. Secondly, the workers deserve respect. These are people who really do cinema and do not just talk about it, to manage money and finance, as Mr. Luigi Abete does. So I ask the government and the majority, before coming to talk about the new movie law, which is in preparation, to solve these problems and deny these hypocrisies and lies. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u105	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to draw the House's attention to yet another case of mischief: it is the money of the citizens, who are increasingly enriching the heritage of the usual friends and friends of corrupt politics, feeding and consolidating the stagnant corrupting system in our country, especially in my region - Campania - where still today the old procurement system is used in public works to make money and votes. In these first three years as a senator I have turned and turned around my surroundings, where they highlighted me and I saw with my eyes an emblematic fact: that the construction of a provincial road, the Depugliano-Gesini, which connects Letters and Casola of Naples, two villages of the Lattari mountains in the Province of Naples, lasts for forty years now. It was designed and started in the 1970s; redesigned for continuation in the 2000s, and finally really started in 2013. However, as per the script, just after a year and a few months, the works are blocked by an unexpected that will be the subject of a "variant," as always, happens. This variant, planned and created at this point ad hoc to raise the costs of public work, is probably entrusted to friends at broken prices. This consideration, illustrious colleagues, comes from an observation: how could it have been that at the stage of a design of a stretch of about 300 meters - so, we are not talking about the construction of a bridge or a highway - about a year after the beginning of the works the technicians designers have mistaken the account of the difference in altitude and therefore, they have mistaken the design of a stretch of just three hundred meters, after about a year? It was already known then. On the need for this variant had expressed itself, issuing a statement in a local newspaper, the former pro-tempore president of the Province of Naples Petangelo Antonio, as well as former mayor of the Municipality of Lettere for two times, provincial coordinator of Naples of Forza Italia and appointed, without being elected, by his political referent Giggino 'a purpetta... I wanted to say, Mr Cesaro Luigi, first city council member for road and then successor to the presidency of the Province of Naples. The variant, most likely, will be followed by another variant, as always. Such work will certainly not be completed, thus creating yet another unfinished work, to be dusted off at the next electoral round. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u108	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at 3 p.m. on Saturday 23 May there will be a demonstration of the people of Abruzzo in Lanciano to say once again no to Ombrina sea and to the drilling at sea in Abruzzo. The initiative is part of a regional context in which individual citizens, committees and associations do not miss an opportunity to reaffirm their clear opposition to a project that defiles the territory and the environment and risks causing considerable damage to the health of citizens. There will be more than one hundred acronyms participating in the event. They will go down to the square to say no to oil, to ask for a new model of sustainable development, that repudiates the drills and has some projects restarted, such as the Park of the coast of Trabocchi and the annexed cycle path, blocked by the interests of the lobby, and to reiterate with a loud voice our request: the amendment of article 6, paragraph 17, of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006, in order to restore the prohibition of activities of research, exploration and cultivation of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons within 12 miles of the coast. Only in this way can the oil tanker attack on our coasts and on our sea be blocked. Mr President, this is the wealth of the country. I and others have presented draft laws of the same typology: my bill is No. 451, which has been jointly assigned to the Commissions 10a and 13a, and I ask with this my intervention to Presidents Marinello and Cucchetti to schedule as soon as possible the measure because, contrary to how instrumentally flaunted by my colleague Pezzopane about a year ago, when an agenda of the PD was accepted that committed the Government to predict the suspension of drilling activities in areas of high seismic, volcanic and tectonic risk, the project Ombrina mare is still standing and continues to represent a serious threat to Abruzzo. On Saturday 23 May, citizens and institutions will reiterate their no.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u111	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, Minister Delrio has stated - and it is in all today's newspapers - that it is enough to project financing fakes. All right, but to say enough we would need transparency, instead what appears to be the most fake project financing among all, relating to the Venetian Pedemontana, is realized on the basis of an economic-financial agreement that has been secreted by the government commissioner. How do you declare "basta project financing faculi" and then secrete that document from which it should be deduced whether or not the prerequisites for project financing exist? The 5 Star Movement has submitted a question to the Government, even on 25 July 2013 (it has been two years), to ask for the descretation of these documents; it is the question 4-00646 The Minister has changed, but we reiterate the call for an answer, because no response came from Lupi, no response came from Delrio, no response came from the president of Veneto Zaia Region and, by chance, not even from the candidate representing the Democratic Party (so a government force) Moretti compared to access to these documents. They're all silent. Yet it is an infrastructure that is carried out in a situation of environmental pollution (as was said at the time of Tangentopoli) even incredible. Think that the extraordinary commissioner is being investigated for auction disturbance and his right-hand man has recently been arrested in the blackberries of the MOSE inquiry (later released, but he is still being declared a contact person for Mantovani's project financing). These are responsibilities that will have to be applauded, of course. The city council member of the Veneto Region is under arrest for bribes; the one who followed the realization of this work and those who obtained the declaration of emergency, the former President of the Veneto Region, is under house arrest in Cinto Euganeo. As if that were not enough, even the director of the works, engineer Perotti, is under arrest, then replaced nighttime for obvious reasons. We presented a report to the National Anti-Bribery Authority and the Court of Auditors and two dossiers were opened. We ask, however, that policy should play its part: I ask the President of the Senate to take an active part in urging the Minister of Infrastructure to respond to this question and, if he shares with us the need to demand transparency and to act as a representative of this institution to immediately remove the secrecy on the economic and financial convention that he establishes for how many generations of Venetians we should repay this work. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u114	FAVERO (PD). Mr President, I would like to highlight a problem, that of migrants and asylum seekers. The Renzi Government has innovated the approach to immigration, obtaining for the first time a collective responsibility on the part of the European Union, through the adoption of the European Agenda on Migration. Faced with the last massacre of the sea of the night between 15 and 16 April, which saw the death of more than 900 migrants off Lampedusa, our Prime Minister Matteo Renzi worked, in synergy with the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Federica Mogherini, to get to the strengthening of relief operations at sea, to the reception quotas from the member countries and to a targeted action against the scafists and traffickers of human beings. This is a great humanitarian success, which relaunches the role of Italy as the southern border of the European Union in the Mediterranean. But there is a "ma": what happens when in our territory, like so many others, we are called to accept quotas of migrants fleeing from any kind of violence and violence? They are hungry and desperate, they hope in a future for themselves and for their loved ones; their arrival, however, also provokes conflicting reactions. Is it, then, to: open or close the doors (which then translates into open or close our heart)? It is a question that is now recurring also for our territory, the Biellan one. But to counter fears and tensions there is a request that makes us glimpse a light, that of holding back asylum seekers: there is a community that asks to hold back asylum seekers. In Biella, in fact, recently the problem of the possible expulsion of part of the 20 young refugees from Mali, welcomed in a municipality of 1,400 inhabitants where they are integrating and have been appreciated for the work done in these months. Unfortunately, only four of them have accepted the request for international protection, while the others are at risk and for this reason I have asked the Minister of Interior, Alfano, for question 3-201922. We do not understand how, after a two-year wait, part of these people, who have done a job at the service of the community, demonstrating a great integration, recognized by the whole community - by the mayor, the parish priest, the inhabitants - and who have presented to the same court the same documents of other members of the same group, proving the same reasons of the request, receive different pronouncements. It also raises, as I have mentioned, the problem of timing: the fact that it takes two years to receive a response involves the expenditure of resources, even of a personal, human nature - for example by volunteers - as well as of an economic nature. Finally, I believe that the number of territorial committees responsible for verifying the status of asylum seekers and deciding on the possibility of remaining in the territories in which they have been integrated must be increased. [[Applause from Senator Padua.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u117	SANTANGELO (M5S). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled today a question 404027 concerning the families of victims of violent and intentional crime. I quote a sad story that happened in 2007, that of one of my fellow citizens, Antonino Via, a boy of only twenty-two years who had finished his day as a warehouseman at a shopping mall. During the closing of the commercial exercise, a colleague of his who had the collection of the evening was the subject of a robbery, and Nino - as we all call it affectionately - with a momentum that defines heroic is little, took the defenses of the colleague and in that struggle with one of the two criminals remained victim. All the society, all Trapani was very shaken for this event. A number of awards have been given to Nino, including the Gold Medal on Civil Merit and Memory; but the reason for my question is to touch on another issue, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. No one must remain behind, and that is what happened to the family members of the Via family: they were alone to have to bear all the legal costs for all the degrees of judgment (considered that the murderers were now definitively condemned). There is no real specific fund, even if there are instruments from European regulations that Italy has not implemented so far, and hence the reason for the submission of this question. Legal aid is an instrument that the Council of Europe approved many years ago, and calls on Member States, including Italy, to implement it. It is precisely to meet the legal costs of victims of violent crimes and it is linked to Article 24 of our Constitution. Mr President, I would also like to refer to your sensitivity to the specific subject: you cannot leave a family alone in this way, perhaps forcing it to raise a mortgage to pay those costs; Nino would be a few years younger than me today, but in 2007 he was prevented from continuing his life path. In my opinion, we must immediately try to find a solution to give proper support to the many families who have been victims of these crimes. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-455.ana.u118	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.06 a.m.
