ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.02 p.m. Welcome back to everyone. Happy New Year: Parliamentary Happy New Year and personal Happy New Year. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 2 December 2014.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, when I renewed my good wishes for the New Year, I could not miss the opportunity to ask for the first vote on the Minutes, after checking the quorum. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,08 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u8	I communicate that on 5 January 2015 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and the Ministers of Economic Development; the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea; cultural goods and activities and tourism - Conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 1 of 5 January 2015 laying down urgent provisions for the exercise of undertakings of strategic national interest in crisis and for the development of the city and area of Taranto (1733).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u11	Martini (PD). Mr President, Senators and fellow Senators, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I am thinking of the entire House as the pain and dismay of all of us for the tragic and shocking news coming from Paris. We have witnessed a violent terrorist attack, led by three men hooded and armed with rifles and rocket launchers against the headquarters of the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo. They raided and shot journalists and designers and then the police trying to block them. The count of the victims is very high: at the moment there are 12 deaths, including the director of the weekly Charbonnier, the three most important cartoons, known all over the world, Cabu, Tignous and Wolinski, and the economist Bernard Maris, who was one of the collaborators of Charlie Hebdo. There are 20 wounded, five of them serious, between life and death. The most likely matrix is the terrorist matrix, from Islamic extremist groups. The testimonies would say, according to which during the assault the words "We will sell the Prophet!" and "Allah is great." Beyond the information update, this is a very serious massacre, which can further poison a climate of tension that does not loosen up. Today, in Istanbul, too, we have witnessed another very serious incident. We express our deep sympathy, solidarity and condemnation, closeness to the families, working colleagues of Charlie Hebdo, the institutions and the French people. We have read the announcement of urgent meetings of the Strategic Analysis Committee promoted by our Government. We believe that all surveillance and intelligence measures must also be taken in Italy and that Minister Gentiloni should come to the Chambers as soon as possible, to report on the facts and initiatives of Italy and Europe against international terrorism. For a massacre of this kind, the most serious in France for over fifty years, there are obviously no plausible reasons. It is not acceptable, it is unacceptable that such barbarity should be unleashed in the name of indignation in the face of the journalistic satire. Freedom of the press and also of satire is one of the pillars of the democratic system, one of its basic values. "Charlie Hebdo" had already been the subject of threats and attacks, he was protected and President Hollande said: Other attacks were foiled. All this is therefore for all of us, for the Italian and European democratic institutions, a very strong reference to the intransigent and intelligent fight against terrorism, made up of all the necessary security, protection and prevention measures and also made up of a more ambitious foreign defence and cooperation policy, more effective, more unified and coherent. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that we must isolate fanaticism within the cultural context that produces it. If the matrix is Islamic, it is necessary to work to separate terrorists from the great masses of Muslim men and women who in many countries are seeking the way for a new development and a new democratic civilization. We will therefore need energy and intelligence, inflexibleness with violent people and superior capacity for dialogue in the Mediterranean and the Middle East. Here, too, we will need more politics, more far-sighted and more Europe. It is not a question of the French, to whom we join with great solidarity: it is a challenge that we must all win together. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u14	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, our Group too joins this moment of great emotion for what happened in Paris and expresses its sincere solidarity with the victims and their families. If it were to be confirmed that the massacre that took place today in Paris is, as it would appear, of Islamic origin, it would mean that once again the time has come to make a serious reflection in our country and in Europe. What has happened today is a very serious attack on freedom of speech and freedom of the press, for which we have always fought in the West. Today it is difficult not to fall into provocation, but a reflection must be made in our country and in Europe. Last Monday, in Dresden, between 18,000 and 20,000 people manifested in a civil way but still very strong, above the lines, in my personal opinion, on the issue of Islam in Europe. We have to think about this: what we are doing is not good, the way we deal with certain problems is not good. We have fought for hundreds of years, in this Europe that is increasingly struggling to be cohesive about these great problems and these great principles on which we have founded our whole democracy, but we end up putting it more and more at risk because the problems are not being tackled seriously. That is our opinion, but here I want to stop, because otherwise I would risk triggering a debate that is not appropriate today. Today is the time for reflection and mourning, but we believe that these issues need to be addressed more seriously on the one hand and on the other, regardless of your personal convictions. This massacre of Paris that we have witnessed is outside a democratic country and a Western civil principle and we must question it. [[Applause from the groups LN-Aut and Aut(SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u17	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I believe that, in wishing to participate in the sentiments of condolence of this House and the Italian people, we must not fail to make considerations about the way in which the face and strategy of Islamist terrorism is changing in the structure of our countries. What do I mean? On the one hand, to what is the traditional fundamentalist position, that is to say to use the name of God as a pretext for his own plan of power, we associate an appeal that is no longer addressed to the organization of a network capable of carrying out the terrorist strategy, but that is instead paradoxically addressed to consciences. The terrorists wrote this in the aftermath of the Atocha bombing in Madrid: "We will win, because we love death more than you have kept to life." It is precisely for this reason that the awareness that we can reawaken a real and strong position of countering terrorism also passes through the challenge of consciences. It is in the conscience of each of us that we must become aware that terrorism is being fought if the reasons for terrorism are to be fought. It is always true that we live for what we believe; it would be bitter if, in the aftermath of the Paris attack, we should realize that we no longer believe in anything and that is why today, before other political considerations, we must perhaps go back to questioning what is true, great, beautiful and just for us, because we will win this battle if we do not give up what we believe in, if we continue to be ourselves and if we do not give in to the logic of violence. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI), PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP(NCD-UDC), LN-Aut and Misto-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u20	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I rise to support what my fellow Members have said, which I have listened to and which I largely agree with, in particular with what Senator Mauro has just said. I naturally express the solidarity of the members of the Mixed Group, and in particular those of the Left Ecology and Freedom, to the French people, to the families of the victims, to the institutions of France affected by this barbaric and so intolerable act, which somehow shakes the consciences of all of us. I too believe that it would be good if, over the next few hours, a joint debate could be held in this House with the Foreign Minister, Mr Gentiloni, in order to take stock of what is happening in Europe and in the world, as well as the ways in which the most effective measures are put in place to combat the occurrence of possible incidents in our country as well. A few months ago in this House there was an information from the Minister of the Interior on the risks and the possibility of the emergence of Islamic terrorism in our country. I think that this need is all the more felt today and I hope that this reflection can be done very quickly. In the same way, I hope that we can open up a reflection, once again with a greater sharing and deepening of what has not been done in the past, on the need to equip our continent with a genuine European foreign policy capable of putting in place all the instruments of counter-terrorism, and to reiterate to the full what Senator Mauro said a moment ago and that I feel I share a great deal. I want to say this, on behalf of my Group and my party - and I hope this House as a whole - to these masked men, to these black men, to these monsters which, unfortunately, also crowd and shake the streets of the West: you will not be able to change us. Our democracies, those we have built over all these years and decades, even throughout all these centuries, as happened in France for example, are too strong for you to change them: you will not be able to drag us into a logic and a dramatic spiral of violence and hatred. We will respond with the weapons of politics to the things you are doing over the years and our message, which will not be of hatred, will eventually win. I think that we must respond with these words to what happened in Paris, tightening ourselves in the strongest possible way to those who today mourn their wounded and their deaths and giving this signal: the free world will not give in to these blackmails, the free world will not change. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u23	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the Senators of the People's Area Group bow to the mourning of such a friendly nation as France, which in the history of the last 50 years had not known on its territory terrorist massacres of such vast and dramatic proportions. We are not yet able to trace the matrix of these hooded and hateful men. If it were true what was confirmed by the first French police agencies, I am sorry for some of my colleagues - such as my friend Crosio of the League and his friend Martini of the PD - who used the Islamic term "matrix," but this expression is insufficient, inadequate and ambiguous. Of Islamic origin is certainly the generous attempt of this period, by the young Tunisian nation, to give itself a constitutional and political framework full of hopes and far from anti-Western. If it were true what seems to come from the first messages, we should speak not of an Islamic matrix, but of extremist, fanatical and terrorist Islamism: the one to which our country must be particularly attentive. Whoever asked to listen to the Foreign Minister, Mr Gentiloni, as soon as possible, is right. We believe, however, that in the Senate we must also listen to the Minister of the Interior, who has been praised by many for having already summoned the strategic security body. But the Minister of the Interior, last September, in a passionate analysis, showed how, at least in terms of prevention, our safety and services machine was anything but distracted, demonstrating the concern of a country like Italy, which, among other things, hosts the papacy: this leads him in the front row to be a target of this fanatic and hateful terrorism, Islamistic in the deterior sense of the term and certainly not only genetically Islamic. From this point of view, I would also like to refer to the fine words used by my colleague Senator Mauro, according to which we must not abdicate to believing in what is true, right and good for us in the West. Among these, in the history of France, Europe and the West there is first of all freedom of the press, which in the specific case of France - I remember France of the restoration, of the Constitution of 1814 - meant freedom of satire, freedom to make the spirit. It is the most hateful freedom for that furious Islamism that attacked the civilian Danish country for some cartoons of the satirical press. For this reason too, our pain and indignation are very strong and our solidarity with France and the West is without distinction and without reservation. Perhaps, with some self-criticism, we must admit that on the day of the European elections we underestimated the significance of what happened in the synagogue in Brussels and that notice, which was sent to us on that dramatic day. For this reason, whatever the cost of the deaths, to which our memory bows, I think that Mr Mauro's appeal should not be dispersed. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u26	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement Group also joins the condolences and condolences to the French people for this heinous attack on the editorial staff of the newspaper Charlie Hebdo. We believe that it is very important to respond, to seek those responsible and to ensure that they are brought to justice, but that does not go along with the plans of terrorism aimed at radicalising conflicts and promoting opposition and violence in the world. This is very important. I say this especially because there is a huge community in our country. We live side by side with many citizens of Islamic religion and this is fundamental to keep separate the two floors and not to feed tremendous oppositions that could bring our country to the abyss. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Razzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u29	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). The Group of Independents - PSI-MAIE expresses deep condolences to the French people and to the important democratic institutions that deal with information and, in particular, satire because there is no free and democratic state or nation in which this freedom cannot be exercised to the full - which often makes us recipients of unpleasant criticism even crude - that democracies must always guarantee. Of course, mourning goes to the families and journalists who have the task of carrying out this increasingly difficult action. We must not forget that the world of information is affected by various parts of the world in its information and counter-information action. In expressing this condolence, however, we must take a step forward: be aware that, in particular, Europe in recent years has underestimated what was happening at its borders. It has dealt with the problems of neighbouring territories with a lack of unitary capacity, often looking more at national interests and underestimating the phenomena that have increased over the years and have affected, depending on the situation, various parts of Europe itself. I believe that the best response to these tragic events is the ability to find unity of action, which cannot be separated from a meaningful and effective foreign policy, not forgetting that foreign policy is done through great diplomacy, with the economic policies of support of the States to which we want to devote our action, with the understanding of the cultures of those countries that cannot be generalized through a judgment that brings together freedom of religious expression with criminal behaviors, which certainly, as we have also seen unfortunately in our national past, prescind from the religious aspect and instead concern other phenomena and aspects. The lack of a unified and serious foreign policy and a defence policy has made it impossible to tackle this phenomenon more effectively. We must be aware of the urgency, which certainly cannot underestimate the issues of our country and Europe itself, its economic problems. However, we must also have the capacity to deal at the same time with the problem of unity of political action outside European borders. [[Applause from Senator Palermo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u32	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I too, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, express deep and complete solidarity with the French people. An attack on the headquarters of a newspaper, the barbaric assassination of those who write, thus expressing to the maximum the freedom of a country, that is, with the freedom of the press, is an attack on the freedom of all of us and the values conquered by the West at the price of wars, deaths and centuries of struggle for the conquest of a civilization worthy of this name. I know that it is difficult, and even unpopular, to talk about the war of civilization, but it is a problem that the whole West, and Europe in particular, must start to pose. Europe, which has been the soft belly of the West in recent decades. The Europe of cultural relativism that no longer recognizes itself in its values; that has removed its own Christian roots from the Constitution; that has opened the door to Islamic fundamentalism instead of fighting it in its strongholds. Countries like Britain have even recognized Islamic courts that judge through Sharia. Europe has had many signs of Islamic terrorism, such as the assassination of director Theo Van Gogh in Amsterdam, the attacks in Madrid and London, the latter being carried out by third-generation Islamics, British citizens in all respects, but never truly integrated into our culture. In Paris there was the banlieue revolt at the beginning of 2000, but now there is a qualitative leap. The Islamic caliphate is making proselytes throughout Europe. There are already 3000 European citizens who are fighting in the caliphate (a now vast caliphate, territorially extended like Great Britain and between Iraq and Syria) and who are ready to return here to import the holy war into the heart of Europe, as happened this morning in Paris. We must hurry to repair immediately, hoping that it will not be too late, starting to close the too many mosques in which hatred against the West is preached. In Europe, thanks to the laxism of its rulers, too many ethnic, confessional and identity ghettos have been born, where immigrant populations live who perceive themselves as antagonists and enemies of the rest of society. If we do not safeguard our deepest values and assume them as the foundation on which to build the model of social co-existence to which immigrants must also adhere; if we do not begin to say that, in addition to rights, there is also a duty to respect our laws, we lay the foundations for the extension of fundamentalism and for 2015 to become a year of blood for Europe. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u33	He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u34	Mr President, it is difficult to find words today to express what we feel in our heads and hearts. We know that only a few hours ago in Paris, in the heart of France and in the heart of Europe, this terrible act of barbarism was carried out. 12 deaths and five serious injuries are the result of the attack at the headquarters of Charlie Hebdo. 12 people who went to work this morning, to do their duty: some to defend the right of information and freedom of expression and communication; others to guarantee the security of their fellow citizens. Today is the day of pain. We have all done so: we express closeness to the families of the victims and solidarity with President Hollande and the French people, who today feel even closer and more friendly. We know, because President Hollande himself said so, that the matrix is clearly terrorist and brings back to mind other massacres, which involved London and Madrid, just a few years ago. We know, however, that today the answer to this act of barbarism cannot but be firm. It stops condemning and ensuring justice for the guilty; it stops trying to prosecute the centers from which acts of terrorism in the world start. It is necessary to raise the level of attention and the level of guard also in our country, and in this sense Minister Alfano has already spoken; but it is also the moment of an answer however of wisdom in the face of this act of barbarism. We know that the perpetrators of the massacre themselves have invoked a religious origin in these acts of terrorism. We do not know whether or not this will be confirmed by the investigations; however, we know that only having cited a religious origin for these massacres is blasphemous: it is against any religion. We know that today those who have done those acts of violence think that they have won, and they think that because today we mourn 12 deaths, but in reality they cannot pretend to have won by placing a violent view of the world, based on differences and divisions by religion or ethnicity. Their illusion of winning is, in fact, just an illusion, because freedom and democracy will always be stronger than hatred and violence. We know that those who today fight against hatred and violence are men and women of every ethnicity and religion, in France as well as in Italy and in the rest of the world. That is why we know that those who have carried out those massacres today have the illusion of a victory, because we, together with those men and women of good will, will continue to work every day so that they can truly affirm their freedom and the possibility of building a more serene life with the effort of their work, trying to build even a better civilization for our children. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI), SCPI, Mixed and Mixed-SEL and from the government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u35	On behalf of the Senate, I have already expressed to the Presidents of the National Assembly and the French Senate a condolence for the victims and solidarity with the French institutions for the attack on institutions and for the attack on freedom of the press and opinion. I invite the House to a minute's silence and reflection. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u36	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1385, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of a bill of popular initiative and the draft own-initiative law of the Cirielli deputies; Pisicchio; Bersani and others; Francesco Saverio Romano; Best and others; Lenzi; Zampa and Marzano; Zampa and Ghizzoni; Martella; Francesco Sanna; Bobba and others; Giachetti and others; Giorgia Meloni and others; Rigoni and others; Rigoni and others; Nicoletti and others; Martella and others; Vargiu; Burtone and others; Balduzzi and others; Laffranco and others; Vargiu; Toninelli and others; Door and others; Zaccagnini and others; Valiante and others; Lauricella; Michele Bordo; Marco Meloni and others; Di Battista and others, and 1449. I would remind you that at its meeting on 19 December the President of the First Permanent Commission, Senator Finocchiaro, reported on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u37	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u39	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, we are starting a debate on the electoral law that has been incardinated, unconstitutionally in our opinion (since the Constitution is so easily interpreted), without having finished the work of discussion and voting in the Commission. It was framed around 7 a.m. in this House, and we already know how: without having finished Parliament's work in the Commission. Now, that this branch of Parliament in particular counts less and less we have noticed, just as the Italian people have inevitably noticed. However, in the light of recent events - I am referring in particular to the events on the tax delegation decree, to the question of the discount to the evaders under the 3% limit and to the blackmails that have been triggered on this line both by Forza Italia and Mr Berlusconi and by the President of the Council Matteo Renzi - I believe that this Parliament and this Republic are absolutely unable to work with serenity and with the democratic and just modalities required by a delicate and important measure such as that on electoral law without the President of the Council Matteo Renzi coming here - also exploiting the lucky presence of Senator Verdini - to explain to this Parliament and the Italian people what we have to expect in the coming weeks and how we can work on an electoral law that has been framed in this way, on which there has not even been set a deadline for the submission of amendments, i.e. with absolutely incompatible ways with our Parliament and with our parliamentary work. I do not know if this is okay with you; it is not okay with me and with my Group, and with the Italian people - at least what voted for us - it is not okay with them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is not acceptable for us to continue to do so. Unfortunately the morning when Senator Finocchiaro made the incardination report here you were all leaving and we didn't have a chance to talk about it because we had to close the work (in an absurd way, because, I repeat, we are, still here, in the middle of the ford, without having a perspective) and so I had to do this intervention now, at the beginning of the work. We therefore call for the President of the Council, Matteo Renzi, to come here and, in front of the nation, explain exactly what the agreements he has made with Forza Italia and other political forces are. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Explain to us why Coppi must come and tell us some things in the newspapers, even if he was a president, a MP, a minister or someone in the government; so we will understand if we have to pretend nothing and continue these parliamentary pantomimes (as happened for constitutional reform or other activities), or if we can work in the interest of the country, without exchanging chairs, exchanges of pleasures, exchanges of favors. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u40	The government is present, it has certainly recorded your invitation and will let us know. He asked Senator Crimi to speak in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens who are staying at home and who follow us, today we are continuing in this farce which began on 19 December, when you forced us to work all night, until a Conference of the Leaders was convened at 7 a.m. in the morning of 20 December, only because of the whim of being able to tweet "We did it..." The electoral law is incarnate to the Senate. It is a pity that two weeks have passed since that day and we have arrived in the afternoon of 7 January without the time limits for the amendments still being set, without a text that is consistent with the declarations that have followed in these days relating precisely to the electoral law. If it was really urgent, so much so as to summon the group leader at 7 a.m. and incardinate the measure even to unfinished Commission work, the Senate would have to meet continuously from 21 December to today and not go on vacation, having only thrown this stone into the pond. And yet no: since 20 December we have all been on holiday and we are still with nothing in hand today; I repeat, we have not yet received the deadline for amendments either. However, let us try to understand what we have before us and why we believe that this proposal for a law is unconstitutional and does not respond to the findings of the Constitutional Court, both in the original rewording, which has emerged from the Chamber of Deputies, and in the modification, as suggested by the former rapporteur, President Finocchiaro, since the Premier's whim prevented, in fact, the completion of the work in the Commission. We are examining an already obsolete text, which has been surpassed by political agreements. He was, in fact, fired in March and was completely overtaken. Yet we have that text in our hands, for this whim of the Christmas tweet, surpassed by political agreements embodied in the amendments of the former rapporteur. Since those amendments represent the direction of the current political intention of the enlarged PD and Forza Italia majority, I will start from the assumption that these amendments are already part of the text, because the original text was certainly even worse and even further from being able to define it constitutionally correct. Let us begin with the initial assumption that the electoral law is being discussed and approved for the Chamber of Deputies alone, assuming the already complete realization of the imposed plan of reform of the Constitution and of overcoming the perfect bicameralism. But it is a reform which, in order to be adopted, still needs four parliamentary passages and a referendum. I hope you have not forgotten - I hope Minister Boschi has not forgotten - the promises of the referendum at the end of the constitutional reform, which can only see the light at the end of 2015 or 2016. A referendum, as we know, has a random result: we cannot predict what will come out; while a political agreement has its own concreteness, no one can know the outcome of the referendum. Yet we make a law that already provides that the Italian people will approve this reform with the abolition, fake, of the Senate. The Constitutional Court, with judgment No. 1 of 2014, which is now historic, has finally put a stone above the Porcellum, addressing two fundamental questions that cannot but be transposed without any comment, provided that you still want to respect the judgment of the Court. First of all, preferences: the Constitutional Court has said, without a doubt or any interpretation that it can hold, that the voter must be placed in a position to choose his candidate. Nothing simpler: delete blocked lists, delete direct party nomination and introduce preference. Yet, in the face of this evidence, interpretations and clearly conflicting pushes have arisen in relation to the original spirit of the judgment to justify in the first draft the maintenance of blocked lists, using a trick: to divide into small short lists, but always pieces of a single large list. In essence, instead of making a listone with 42 candidates, we make seven lists of six candidates, but the count is always done in the entire circuit; then the division serves to choose candidates according to an office calculation, and the lists continue to be blocked. Then comes the genius of recent times, which I would like to emphasize that it shows - I repeat, it shows - that what we said in March was true, namely that, as it was, it did not stand constitutionally. The former rapporteur herself, in her initial report on work in the Commission, said that those blocked lists did not correspond to the spirit of the judgment and that something had to be done. And yet when we said it, it sounded like we were screaming in the wind, and yet we were right. That form was not good and now there is a further forcing: the novelty of blocking the leader, and the rest according to preference. Basically, in a college where there are five lists of all parties expressing seats, only the leaders pass. If therefore there are five lists in a college and five seats are expressed, of the five parties five capilist passes. Where is the preference? Not only that. Unconstitutionality is linked to the lack of the possibility of expressing preference in particular for lists that do not access the majority prize. While a voter who elects the party that then wins the majority prize and will have more than one elected candidate may say he has expressed a preference, the voter who is going to vote on a list that, despite him, may have only one seat assigned can only have the leader blocked by the party. This unconstitutionality, i.e. the possibility of expressing preference, was also noted at the hearing of Professor Luciani, who said: At a time when the blocked capitalists are expected, the voters of the small parties have basically no power of choice, and this (...) leads to a substantial difference in treatment between the majority and the minority voters. It would happen, in fact, that the minority voter of a small party, indeed, medium-small, would not only be institutionally excluded from the government area because there would be the prize, but, at the same time, would not even have the power of choice of his own candidate. Similarly, a President emeritus of the Constitutional Court, Professor Tesauro, also noted at the hearing: "Reflecting and seeking a remedy for semi-blocked lists (which involve, with the national distribution of seats, perverse effects and, in particular, a strong shift of seats in favour of larger lists or even the major list) is not only a problem of political opportunity, but undoubtedly also of constitutional compatibility, because all this has to do with the principle of equality". The other issue strongly underlined by the Constitutional Court in its historic judgment is the abnormity of the majority prize awarded without any limit, without providing for a threshold beyond which it is awarded. In this case, too, the Court does not leave much room for manoeuvre: it clearly states that the majority prize can only be imagined if a threshold beyond which it is to be awarded is envisaged, in order to prevent parties with rates of consensus far below the relative majority from enjoying an excessive push forward. Simple, isn't it? You enter a threshold (37, 40, 45 percent, what you want) and if a party exceeds it takes the prize, if it does not exceed anything prize. The ruling is clear, he says nothing else, does not add elucubrations, because that party does not have a consensus that is attributable to a number of voters at least close to a relative majority. Well, what did you guys make up? The ballot, a threshold beyond which you take the majority prize, as the Court says, but below which you go to the ballot. With this law, in fact, nothing changes: there will always be a majority prize, whether a party exceeds the threshold or does not exceed it, because if no one passes it you go to the ballot and to the ballot who wins takes the majority prize. Let's face it: the majority prize remains and perhaps is even greater in terms of exaggeration than before. Imagine the assumption that a party takes 20 percent of the votes, the second 15 percent and all the others 10 percent; the two parties with 20 and 15 percent go to the ballot and one of them will take the majority prize. However, that party represented 20% or 15% of the voters, who are perhaps half as many as those entitled. Is this freedom of vote, the principle of equality in the expression of the vote you imagine? The electoral law, after the Constitution, is the most important law of a country, a law that cannot be bent on the political will of a majority built on blackmail. You call it a deal, but you should give the right name to things. As my colleague Airola said earlier, the senators of the Democratic Party under blackmail forced to vote on this and other laws... with confidence! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Senators of Forza Italia are forced to vote this electoral law under the blackmail of the laws saves Berlusconi. These are not my words, but those used by the lawyer Franco Coppi in an interview with Carlo Tecce on "Il Fatto Quotidiano": I wonder if the controversy over 3% for tax crimes and my assistant Berlusconi has anything to do with the game for the Quirinale? And I answer yes, otherwise why does Matthew Renzi promise that the practice will be postponed to elected president and after the end of social services to Cesano Boscone? Here's the blackmail. The first signal was given at Christmas by the Government, inserting the norm then withdrawn to send it back to February; now Renzi beats cash at Forza Italia before proposing again the norm on tax crimes and to address a candidate president who addresses and solves the issue of Berlusconi's conviction, to understand us with a grace. In the light of the above considerations, the proposed regulatory framework violates the principle of proportionality and the criterion of reasonableness, it violates the first paragraph of Articles 56, and the first paragraph of Article 58, which stipulate that suffrage is direct; it violates the second paragraph of Article 48 of the Constitution, by virtue of which the vote is personal and free, the first paragraph of Article 117 of the Constitution in relation to Article 3 of the Additional Protocol to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which gives the people the right to choose the legislative body. A large number of decisions of the Constitutional Court are also manifestly violated, in particular the precepts of judgment No. 1 of 2014, net of the madness of the legislation in order to lay down an electoral law for only one of the two branches of Parliament. We also consider that from the constitutional and regulatory point of view, given the total absence of the examination of the measure in the referee, there is a serious violation of Article 72 of the Constitution which provides: The normal procedure of examination and direct approval by the House is always adopted for constitutional and electoral drafts.................................................................................................................................................... If our constituent Fathers have written this rule it was to specify that the electoral law, like the amendments to the Constitutional Charter, must be approved by a normal procedure, and by normal means it is meant to make all passages provided for in the Rules of Procedure. For these reasons we propose not to proceed with the examination of the Senate Act 1385 [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u42	He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to examine an electoral law after the pre-Christmas rush, and I would like to remind you here, as you well know, Mr President, that this has happened in violation of our Rules of Procedure. A haste that did not complete the work done in the Commission so that the text could be framed for the House. Mr President, I am talking about a violation of our Rules of Procedure, first of all, because the urgency of the measure, which was to be discussed by this House, had not been declared, and secondly, because in the spirit of the legislator and our Rules of Procedure it has always been said that urgent procedures cannot be applied to electoral law. You see, President, haste is always bad counselor. We never get to the House, especially with regard to the electoral law, with a text not yet defined in the Commission and without rapporteur, because the complexity and difficulty of an electoral law - the synthesis of which is often in detail - has always meant that there was work done within the Commission. However, once again we come to the examination of this text in a hurry and with an urgent procedure never declared, with a paradox: today we begin the discussion of this draft law - although we hope that this will not happen thanks to the approval of the question for a preliminary ruling - in a text approved by the House and which has been in the Senate for a long time, without all the work done in the Commission, including the hearings and the presentation of amendments by the rapporteur, being the subject of debate in this House today. As a result, we add paradox on paradox, in the sense that even the valuable work done in the Commission will not find, at least as it is up to now, any feedback in this House. Therefore, with regard to the points which we believe to be formally non-constitutional, we will stick not only to the text of Italicum but also in some way to the hypotheses of amendments submitted to the Commission by the rapporteur herself. I would like to remind you here, at the very moment when we are asking for preliminary questions, the first of these, because we are faced with yet another paradox: we are dealing with the examination of a text which provides for an electoral law only and only for the House of Deputies, although it is still in a bicameral system. We hope, of course, that the constitutional reform will be profoundly modified and that it will not go through, even thanks to the referendum, but we are still in a regime that provides for the House and the Senate to be directly elected by the citizens. This is already the first element, not only of paradox, but profoundly unconstitutional, without even having been examined or envisaged in this text any form of transitional rule, that is to say, a bridge that establishes an electoral law from here to when it will be (of course we hope never) approved constitutional reform. The other question, Mr President, which we are discussing and have put forward preliminary rulings on constitutionality comes from the ruling of the Constitutional Court (the famous judgment No 1 of 2014 on Porcellum). In fact, we should already have a highway, a platform on which to work, and we should have a clear picture of the stakes set by the Court (so the constitutional requirements that an electoral law should have). In the meantime, I would like to point out that the Constitutional Court does not impose with that judgment any model of electoral system, obviously leaving the choice of the system to the discretion of the legislator. However, it strongly reminds us of certain principles. This is, first of all, the principle of equality of voting, which requires the condition of equality in the exercise of the active electorate because each vote contributes potentially and with equal effectiveness to the formation of elected bodies, as already provided for in a decision of the Constitutional Court (I refer to Judgment No 43 of 1961). This principle of equality must, in some way, also contain the need to ensure the stability of the Government of the Nation; it must, however, first of all guarantee the parliamentary representativeness, determined by the adherence of representatives in Parliament with the political bodies present. Already in the judgment of the Court, the principle of representativeness is always invoked at the very moment when it brings it together, as a guiding principle, to the reasonableness of the award of the majority prize. It is always considered to be an element that must accompany the right demand, which I mentioned earlier, for the stability of the Government. The reasonableness which reminds the Court - on this point I would like to make a reference - in the indications of this minimum threshold which may constitute reasonableness is found in the Constitution itself, noting that whenever the term "majority" is used, the adjective "absolute" is always associated with it, so much so that when you want to achieve qualified majorities they are always clarified. In the Constitution there is no concept of a relative majority and, therefore, the only possible threshold for obtaining any majority prize in an electoral law should be that of 50% plus one of the valid votes cast, just as it was for the much-vaunted fraud law, which allocated 65% of the seats to the list or group of linked lists that had reached 50% plus one of the validly cast votes. This, in our view, should be the guiding principle of reasonableness. However, to further exacerbate the harmful effects of the majority prize awarded without the necessary dose of reasonableness, there is the forecast in this text of a second round of ballots, which in modern democracies and in all existing electoral systems serves to elect individual candidates and not to elect the legislative majority of representatives the popular will. The majority prize associated with the so-called ballot between two lists for which a minimum percentage of participation is not fixed leads to a serious distortion of representativeness, which goes well beyond the criterion of non-excessive distortion indicated by the Consulta in the judgment of 2014. The principle that the judgment recalls, that there should be no excessive distortion of the principle of representation with the majority prize, is, in our view, greatly aggravated by the ballot. All the more so because, as Mr Crimes has reminded us, we could be faced with a scenario in which the first two lists (or coalitions, depending on the outcome of the amendments) go to the ballot box, which may have obtained 20% and 15% of the votes, where the number of votes and therefore the representation were set at the first round. With the ballot, even when one of the lists does not reach 51%, we will have that the majority prize is awarded to a small minority, all the more so since there is no provision in the text for the votes cast, i.e. at least a percentage of voters as happens in the French system, not only in the first round but also in the one of balloting. Mr President, this is very serious and can create a total detachment of citizens from the institutions at a time of history such as the one we are experiencing, which has a gradual and increasingly merciless abandonment of the voting tool by voters (just think of the data of the turnout in the vote of the last elections). The distortion of balloting is further aggravated by the simultaneous presence of barrier thresholds. The latter, in fact, should not be envisaged in a system in which there is a majority award, being normally present in the electoral systems such as the German one, which precisely have no majority prize. We are examining an electoral system in which there is the simultaneous presence of an unreasonable majority prize, which continues to persist in its unreasonableness, and very high barrier thresholds, as in the proposal to the attention of the House, coming from the House, thresholds that would still be high even with the lowering to 3% provided for in the amendment tabled by the rapporteur. In this system, the distortion of representativeness is greatly aggravated by the simultaneous presence of the majority prize of the ballot and the barrier. These, Mr President, are all very clear from the point of view of judgment No 1 of the Constitutional Court, which, in our opinion, would remain as unconstitutional factors in the text of Italicum even if the amendments tabled by the rapporteur were adopted. We then come to the principle, once again violated, of equality of voting and to the other point, which was the cornerstone of the Court's judgment, of the blocked lists. The system approved in the House, which includes all blocked lists, as well as the version outlined by the rapporteur's amendments, which provides for blocked capilists and others elected with preferences, confirms the vice of unconstitutionality. In fact, what will happen is very clear: by providing blocked nominations for the leaders of one hundred colleges and the possibility of expressing preferences only from the second candidate on the list, the party that will get the majority prize will have a share of seats definitely above one hundred and therefore will also be able to elect appointed parliamentarians with the preferences, while all the other parties, who will get less than one hundred seats, will not be able to have elected with the preferences. This means that the violation of the principle of equality of voting is confirmed, as well as a further undue advantage for the party that should obtain the majority prize. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] This also means that, however, two thirds of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies would once again be elected with blocked lists: they will be short, small, short, long or wide, but the distorting effect will be very strong. From this point of view, precisely because they remain at the root of the text, even in the variant of the amendments tabled, all the vices of unconstitutionality detected by the Court, but also others that I have subtly emphasized, we could find ourselves in a dangerous situation from the constitutional point of view, in approving an electoral law that perhaps could be once again declared unconstitutional. Today, after Judgment No 1, it is obvious that the Court, unlike what was stated earlier, can intervene on the electoral law. However, we must realise what we could do if once again there were a ruling by the Court declaring an electoral law unconstitutional: in the meantime there would be elections again and we would be faced with a delegitimized Parliament (and this time permanently, a catastrophe for the democratic system), as would be totally delegitimized from the constitutional and democratic point of view all the constitutional bodies elected by that Parliament. That is why we are asking, Mr President, that, under Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, the present proposal should not be examined. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senators Bignami, Marton and Pepe.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u44	He asked Senator Endrizzi to explain the suspensive question QS1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here we are with the electoral law. We saw the rush of framing this bill at the first light of dawn, for what? To go on vacation, when there were still five days before Christmas to work, and the House in fact worked. But then what problems does Italy have, what urgency did the Italians have? Work, income, sustainable taxation, anti-corruption, fight against mafia and political interweaving. In fact, between mafias and anti-politics. The anti-politics that for decades has splintered the resources of the country, that has created the single party, the party of cement, of the public debt, that has ridden to the right the populism of the million places of work (the ones lost, while they always and only did the affairs of the head: from the television frequencies, to the laws saved conduct) and, to the left, the populism that fills with environment and pushes for the nuclear, that it speaks of common goods and privatizes the water, that speaks of peace and buys bombers. We were born to counter anti-politics and mystical populism and today we denounce yet another deception. The debate on a new electoral law should begin, taking Senate time away from much more pressing issues. To hear the Government, it seems that we do not have an electoral law, that the continuity of the constitutional bodies is threatened, that the poor President of the Republic is taken hostage and cannot dissolve the Chambers, because otherwise it would be chaos. When would this decay occur? When the Constitutional Court declared the Porcellum unconstitutional. Then I want to bring back a minimum of reality in the examination of this matter. For eight years we voted with an unconstitutional law because it took sovereignty from the citizens; you all knew it, the Zanda leader admitted it to the Commission months before the sentence; and you did nothing. The sentence has made official what the Italians already knew and which we asked to remedy since 2007 with the bill "Clean Parliament." Well, at that time a President of the Republic, faced with such a clear sentence, should have dissolved the Chambers, sent to the vote and restored Parliament's legitimacy. You will say to me, "And with what electoral law?" Here is the scam: there is no threat to the continuity of the institutions: an electoral system in force exists, the one that emerged from the decision of the Council. In point six of the law it stated that the constitutional defects found - and I read it - can also be removed by means of secondary, purely technical and application regulatory measures of this pronunciation and of the interpretative solutions indicated above. No alarm, therefore, provided that the Government or Parliament, although made up of appointed persons, maintained the decorum and provided for those simple acts referred to as necessary and sufficient by the Court. Instead, the House, under blackmail from the shadow government of the prejudiced Berlusconi, has developed a rule that proposes the same scheme of the Porcellum; a norm left firm then for months, because its own authors, after the vote of the Europeans, no longer agreed. Then, with autumn, the clandestine pact was renewed at the Nazarene and then again with their urgency. A year has passed, when it would be very little: to define the colleges, to draw the ballot. It's as if the consult had said: We give you an effective, efficient machine that responds to the Constitution. All you have to do is put gas in it. We have done so with the bill No. 1704 which, with a few articles, returns to the country a democratic and constitutional electoral system. What have this Government of Inciucio and the majority of the single party, instead, done? They have restrained everything to make their private interests pass as a matter of urgency. They put a cap on the muffler to convince the Italians that the engine had to be changed. And while here in the Senate we are debating an electoral law that will still be decided in the secret rooms, they meet - always in the secret rooms - to figure out how to absolve Berlusconi and Verdini. It is really sad to see that the law applies only to the House. And with what law will we go to vote for the Senate then? The answer is that we are waiting for the constitutional reform to be completed. This was officially confirmed by the rapporteur, Mrs Finocchiaro, who rejected the draft laws applicable to both rooms. So we have a reproach that, in case we vote in the near future - is this the urgency or not? - it would lead to a majority award to the House and a pure proportional representation to the Senate: a schizophrenic, irrational system and, moreover, contrary to the declared principles of governability, therefore doubly unconstitutional. Then we hear about the safeguard clause, which would freeze this electoral reform until the completion of the constitutional reform: in short, an electoral law "to father dead." And was it not possible to vote on one amendment in the Commission with this fake urgency? It is a film already seen, President Finocchiaro, with the reform of the Senate, with the rubber wall by the majority and not on any law, but on the Constitution. We asked several times for a real dialogue in the Commission on guaranteeing citizens the right to vote and, having no answer, we asked for that article to be voted on. At least the facts mattered. Instead, everything has been set aside; there has been a repeated call for withdrawal and then, at the crucial point, a vote against, a vote against, and so on in the House, where we found the trap. This time too, President Finocchiaro made us discuss the highest principles in a vacuum: what was to be discussed? The Italicum dealt before the Europeans or the new version, after the summer renegotiation at the Nazarene? The official text was the one that came out of the Chamber of Deputies in March, which all constitutionalists had crushed for the abstruse and absurd thresholds, because in no democracy is proportional together with the majority prize, except in Greece, because there are blocked lists; and we will still have a Parliament of nominations, because the elector of a Province is worth less than that of an autonomous Province, because with the system indicated you have the illusion of voting a candidate and instead you help to vote an entrepreneurial one, perhaps in another college. Meanwhile, all the newspapers were talking about the new agreement at the Nazarene and, even before the rapporteur's amendment arrived, the audit constitutionalists already commented and analyzed the news announced by the press. By now you are getting used to it: the electoral lists are decided by the party secretaries; the replacement of Berlusconi with Monti was decided - it seems - in the Swiss villa of De Benedetti; the new seven-year-old of President Napolitano was proposed under track before the political elections; the constitutional reforms (i.e. regarding the democratic guarantee common to all) are dealt with in a party seat (i.e. one part) and, moreover, with a prejudiced and still with blocked lists. Here, in this House, what remains? In the Commission we asked for the secret pacts to emerge and for the general discussion on a true text to be opened. The President promised us that there would be plenty of room to discuss the amendments. Instead, everything is closed down in this House. We have tabled 25 amendments; Mr President, 25 amendments: are we, then, the ones that escape the dialogue? But look, Mr President, many thousands of amendments would have fallen if the Government had opened a real window of dialogue: not the merchanting, because we had nothing to trade, but a confrontation and transparent explanations. On the contrary, I have seen colleagues, albeit prepared and with important resumes, building improbable conceptual scaffoldings to justify ex post coalition orders: all in order not to do the right thing. Securing the continuity of constitutional institutions and bodies requires few simple rules. We have proposed them with bill No. 1704. Therefore, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask you to proceed with the examination of the Senate Act 1385 after the final adoption of draft laws of parliamentary initiative - of parliamentary initiative, for once! - aimed at legalising, with sources of primary rank, the contents of the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 1 of 2014, as well as the interpretative solutions indicated therein. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Dalla Tor]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u46	He asked Senator Calderoli to intervene to illustrate a suspensive issue. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u47	Mr President, I would like to make a reference to a question which seeks to put a patch in the hole we made on 19 December.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u48	Senator Calderoli, is this a preliminary or suspensive question? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, this is a five-day suspensive issue, with an update of the House's work until Monday afternoon. In fact, it seems to me very strange to discuss such an important law in this House without the rapporteur, for a very simple reason, that no one has the courage to say directly: that is, no majority, neither the current nor the previous one, is able to manage and control the Senate. Therefore, since there is no possibility of controlling the Senate, or the laws are discussed in this House without going through the Commission, or are kidnapped and robbed by the other branch of Parliament. What is certain is that, when the Senate is not controllable, someone may think - as is happening in the House of Deputies - of making a constitutional reform in which the Senate and the Regions are totally deprived of their powers and therefore, in fact, the Senate is suppressed. I support this for the history of this provision. A year ago, in the Commission, we voted on three agendas: one of the PD, one of the then PdL and one of the undersigned. If the first two were rejected, we should have voted on whether or not to return to the so-called Mattarellum under transitional arrangements. There was a very long series of referrals that ended, once again, with the transmission to the Chamber of Deputies of the provision, provided that someone - it was said - made the law. If someone had made a good law, it would have been acceptable and, instead, the House of Deputies has produced what - in my opinion - is a real legislative abortion. I use this expression because everyone knew perfectly the good and bad parts of the so-called Porcellum. The House of Deputies intervened on the good parts and kept and further increased and concentrated the bad part of the Porcellum. We did not have the Italicum but a genetically modified Porcellum, which was transmitted to us in March of this year and everything was silenced until November 19, the day of the report, because suddenly the electoral law had returned to being a topical subject. Once again, when the amendments were to be put to the vote, the majority felt that, after less than a month of examination in the Commission, at 7 a.m., after a night of examination of the Stability Act, the measure should be taken in the Chamber. The fault is attributed to the 17,000 amendments and, in particular, to my 15,400 amendments. I think this is some kind of screen behind which most people have been hiding. On 19 December I stated that it was the usual "announcement" of Renzi, a disease that he suffers from in acute and chronic form, but no one has ever said the real motivation and it is good that it is stigmatized in this House. The measure arrived directly in the Chamber, just as it was then taken to the House, because the relative majority party, the Democratic Party, was unable to guarantee the unity of the votes of its members in the Commission and, therefore, to prevent the party of which the President of the Council is Secretary, who signed the agreements with the political forces of majority and also with one of the opposition (which makes the opposition every other day, even if it is formally), from guaranteeing unity. So you chose this path. I believe that it is very useful, in this new way of regulating and proceeding in Parliament, to abolish the unnecessary character of the rapporteur who is confronted with the forces of majority and opposition, because in the end only the Government will answer in this House. So, they took three birds with one stone. This absence will make it impossible to table the rapporteur's amendments and sub-amendments. And I doubt whether the Government itself would like to table amendments or, at least, I do not recommend it, given the unbrilliant exploits of the law delegation in terms of taxation and article 19-a. If someone writes the rules like that, it's better to let it go.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u49	[[Applause from the LN-Aut, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups]] Minister, perhaps he will tell us in the future, but I have not yet understood whose hand that rule has been written, but it is necessary to give him the license of the ignorant or of the bad faith: if Article 19-a has passed into the Commission or in a Parliamentary Chamber, the bis points out that that article has been added further. If in the original wording of the text there is 19-a, without articles 20 and later, someone wanted to point a reflector on that norm so that in the end it could jump. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] I don't think, frankly, it's an ad personam norm, but it's an ad personas norm. In fact, it's been around a long time since the Berlusconi government. I have always called it the norm "to Confindustram," which is comfortable perhaps for those who support electoral campaigns or the primary of one candidate rather than another. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Campanella]] It is not, however, an example of good legification. This, however, presupposes the possibility of using tricks. If the government does not table amendments in this House, without the rapporteur, the amendments are only parliamentary amendments. If one wanted to force the hand, as a bandit - as I would if he were on the other side of the barricade - one could come, with two or three votes, to approve the electoral law in a few hours, putting basically trust without even one vote in the Commission. I have asked, although I know that there is little room for any referral back to the Commission (in view of the assumptions I have just mentioned), for a five-day suspension in order to be able to conclude the examination in the Commission. Personally, I am prepared to table two or three amendments, in order to arrive at this House with a text which has fixed those points which are then the transposition of my agenda (the only favourable vote in the Commission was, in fact, on my agenda) and which had already been accepted in the amendments tabled by the rapporteur. It would be good to have a rapporteur in this House, but the issue of blocked capilists remains open. Frankly, I'm against mixing blocked lists with preferences. And it seems to me an insult, compared to those who have always accused the Porcellum of having the defect of having blocked lists, to introduce a system that, scratching, brings out the bristle of the Porcellum, since the two-thirds of the candidates would be appointed by the party secretaries. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, Mixed-ILC and Mixed-MovX Groups]] Either you make a choice or you make another choice, but if you have to do it, let's do it all the way. I am convinced that not even in the Commission would this point be answered and that, in the end, the House will have to say something about it. Then there is another point which I have heard so far only in the newspapers and which I would like to hear, for the first time today, something official. This is a law that applies to a single-cameral system. Therefore, it will be possible to apply once the process of constitutional reform has been completed and when the Senate is elected indirectly. As long as there is a bicameral system, it is not possible to think of using such a highly majority law, which would result in a total imbalance of the weights and counterweights present in our Constitution. Therefore, having today for the first time the opportunity to speak with the Government, if there were any clarity with regard to these points, and in particular about when this law should enter into force, the attitude of me and my Group, both in terms of amendment and of the questions of prejudice and suspensive, will also depend on those answers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u50	He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u51	Mr President, as part of the illustration that has just taken place in this House, a number of questions have been put to the debate by the Groups, not all of which are closely related to the electoral law. Since these are political assessments and, in some cases, also merit assessments of the electoral law, the most appropriate forum for discussing them together, and also for exposing the Government's most timely position, in addition to what has been done in the Commission, will obviously be the general discussion on the electoral law, and not here. From now on, however, with a view to promoting a frank and constructive confrontation with all the political forces present in Parliament, I believe it is appropriate, on the part of the Government, to demonstrate the sharing with respect to the hypothesis that the electoral law that we are discussing can be dealt with taking into account also the constitutional reforms that we are examining in the Chamber, in the House, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, starting tomorrow. In the light of this, while considering, from a political point of view, that the Government's commitment is to arrive at 2018 and, therefore, to be able to use the new electoral law only at the natural end of the legislature, which is 2018, we consider important and appropriate an electoral law able to obtain immediately a settlement in the current vacuum created following the decision of the Constitutional Court for certain profiles. We also believe that its effectiveness can be postponed to a later date, and therefore reasonably to 2016, in line with the path we are also addressing on the issue of constitutional reforms.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u54	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is said: "Piutost that nothing is mei piatost". These clarifications were necessary and welcome and therefore, as far as I am concerned, I withdraw the suspensive issue that I had presented. And, even if it wasn't good to the end, the coal (but the sweet coal) to the Minister anyway I bring it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Senator Calderoli brings a plate with coal to Minister Boschi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u55	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single discussion will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and will be open to one representative per Group for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u57	You have the right to do so. De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I will not go any further than that because, when I explain the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, my colleagues and my group leader, Senator De Petris, but also some of my colleagues from the other opposition forces, have put those which - in our view - are absolutely existing problems within this affair, which - I would also like to say to the Minister and to the President of the Council - are not frankly solved by the so-called safeguard clause. It is completely independent, at least from our point of view, of the judgment on the defects of constitutionality regarding the fact that...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u58	[[Brusio.]] President, it would be right for you to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u59	Colleagues, please, let's listen to Senator De Cristofaro. Those who do not want to listen are asked to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u60	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). As any student in the first year of jurisprudence who supports the examination of constitutional law understands, the statements of constitutionality of a law are obviously totally independent of its entry into force. Nothing changes from our point of view if the law comes into force tomorrow morning rather than June 1, 2016, September 30, 2016 or November 1, 2025: all the points that, on the other hand, have been emphasized in the questions referred for a preliminary ruling remain standing. I would have liked to have heard from the Minister a few words about this, in addition to the so-called reassurance which, frankly, offends this Parliament of the Italian Republic. [[Applause from Senator Morra.]] In short, here we are discussing an electoral law that will probably have to concern the development of Italian democracy over the coming decades. Honestly, this kind of "sugar" that is given to Parliament, so we live this Parliament in the composition that came out of the last elections for a few more months in exchange for the assent to the electoral law, it really seems to me to be a subject of low politics. It would have been honestly more elegant not to put him on the field, if I may say so. In any case, there are still some fundamental elements that - in our opinion - also exist within the so-called Italicum and that do not overcome the problem posed by the Constitutional Court in the now famous judgment of 2014. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Here I will not make general and political considerations, which I reserve for tomorrow's day, when the general debate on the substance of the law begins and I will try to speak on what - in my opinion - is the underlying political point of this reasoning. For too many years, in fact, even for a few decades, in our country, between the two basic principles, that of governability and that of representativeness, a type of path, governability has been chosen in a clear and unidirectional way. The disastrous results of this choice are, however, before everyone's eyes, given what is happening in Italy. Read, if you consider the most authoritative of my words, Ilvo Diamanti's analyses on what concerns - for example - the distrust of the people of this country towards politics and institutions. And question yourself if there is no connection between this element of distrust so strong, creeping and profound and, also and above all, the political choices made over the last few years, as, indeed, the wanted to insist strongly on the topic of governability, forgetting however the topic of representation, moreover, not even resolving the great open themes of governability; this in view of what has happened over the last few years and the fact that, despite electoral laws all based on the principle of governability, as we know well, during the same legislatures the Governments have changed several times. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] This seems to me to be an indisputable element: it is not a thesis on which judgments can be expressed, but it is, in fact, a fact that can only be ascertained historically. With regard to the critical elements, the first was mentioned and concerns exactly the majority prize. The Constitutional Court has been very clear: it has clearly said that an abnormal majority prize, without a threshold, could not be foreseen. We are faced with a real paradox: it is true that a threshold has been introduced, but it is also true that a mechanism has been imagined that can circumvent the threshold, that is, the mechanism of the ballot. The voting mechanism is based on a political consideration by the President-in-Office of the Council, whom I would like to challenge in this House. In a nutshell, the President-in-Office of the Council says that we must know, on the evening of the elections, who is the winner and who is the loser. This argument, of course, has a political basis, but the point is that it is incompatible with a parliamentary democracy. This is the basic point on which a deception is put in place. So, if that is to be said, namely that on the evening of the elections we have to know who won, it would be much more right to radically change the electoral system and the constitutional system and, for example, to imagine presidentialist systems such as those in other countries of the world. Even there, however, the problem of knowing on the evening of the elections who won, given - for example - that in the United States of America, in the presidential election, it took days to know who had won them. Let us make at least one rule that, in some way, has a theoretical foundation and a set of criteria that stand with one another. In parliamentary democracies it happens in another way. In our country (but not only in our country) there is another type of mechanism. Then it would be much more correct to say that we want to overcome the hypothesis of parliamentary democracy and imagine another. I could also agree with this kind of principle, because I also think, of course, that we need to talk to the public of the country and give answers. However, I believe - and this is what we have already done in the debate on constitutional reform - that it is more appropriate to imagine other types of electoral and constitutional mechanisms, because at least they would provide for those counterweight elements of the democratic system which, unfortunately, are now being completely called into question. On the second point, Madam Minister, you really owe me an answer and also pay some attention, because I want to understand, from a theoretical point of view, your justifications in this regard. I understand once again that the President-in-Office of the Council says, in particular to my party: What do you want? We have also lowered your barrier and keep talking and saying that you are against it. Be satisfied that, in the first hypothesis, the barrier was expected to be 4.5 percent in the coalitions and 8 percent pure, and now we standardize it and lower it to 3 percent. Why are you still screaming and talking about this, since we have basically satisfied you? The President-in-Office of the Council will accept this, but sometimes those in this Parliament try to reason simply on the basis, not of the preservation of their own small and personal garden, but of the democracy of this country. The barriers in all democratic systems exist only when there are no majority prizes. The combination between a majority prize and a barrier, whatever it may be, is a total logical contradiction, has no reason for existence from the theoretical point of view. Find me a constitutional law manual that says something different and I'll shut up. Why is this happening? The barriers exist precisely because we want to prevent that fragmentation which makes governance more complex. But if governability is ensured by the majority premium, I ask why the barrier should be introduced, even if it was only a barrier of 1% or 0.5%. What is the theoretical ratio of this? Perhaps it is the nice things that writes some columnist, who probably should get off the pedestal, since even for him the years pass and realize little of what happens? Or perhaps someone says that even oppositions must be little fragmented. But will it be a right of opposition to be able to choose whether to fragment or not? There may be a country in which there is not simply the government and the opposition, but there is a government, a right-wing opposition, a centre-wing and a left-wing one? Is this going to be about the basic features of the democracy that we need to build? I think they're all very serious, and I'm sorry to tell you in this mess. And I am also sorry that the government is not paying any attention to these issues. But, you know, for our executive, those who pose problems are owls. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-MovX Groups]] , which do not deserve, therefore, to be heard, as is known. Last but not least, there are blocked lists. Once again, we are faced with an element which, even from our point of view, risks representing a further problematic element and a serious vulnus. If in the future the Constitutional Court were to intervene again on the electoral law and again consider it illegitimate, you understand well that this would mean the end of our country's democracy. We are already at the limit, in the sense that the level of public distrust has reached such a point that, when we walk on the street, we must - let us say this - avoid saying what we do because we risk lynching, unfortunately because of the climate that has been built over the years and for a whole series of things that I have repeated so many times in this House and that I do not want to repeat today, because it is not the subject on the agenda. You can imagine what could happen if the Constitutional Court were to intervene again on this point concerning electoral law, blocked lists and the fact that a very significant part of the future Parliament will be elected again with a mechanism of blocked lists. It would really be a gigantic democratic vulnus from which we will never recover. I am certainly not an advocate of preferences, because among other things I come from an area of our country, the southern one, where they have been for many years a real market of very low level. Probably a somewhat more advanced synthesis between blocked lists and preferences, as we have known them over the years, with an extra effort of imagination could be done, as happens all over the world, where there are no preferences and blocked lists, but - for example - electoral colleges. Instead, once again, and perhaps on the basis of an unwritten covenant, he wanted to do it another way. In short, the critical elements remain all, as remains the doubts of constitutionality on this law. We shall therefore vote in favour of the question for a preliminary ruling, considering that the reassurance made by the Minister just now that the following entry into force has really not sounded the basic elements that we are trying to highlight. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u63	Bisinella (LN-Aut). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the presentation of the constitutional prejudices, after we too decided to intervene with our suspension in the preparatory phase of what is to be considered in the Chamber of the electoral law, it has been stressed how things have gone. We must take account of what has happened in the Commission and of the fact that the Government has pushed us, with an incredible acceleration and forcing that we all remember, to quickly schedule, before Christmas, the electoral law under consideration and today, to the resumption of work, first of all, to face them. We therefore intend to make a number of points which we care about. We believe that this forcing has been very inappropriate and reckless, given the situation in the country. I'm making a brief premise. First of all, we have had today the certification of tragic and alarming data on unemployment in our country, with 3.5 million people who have no work; the percentage of unemployment has once again reached a historical record, not to mention the youth record. There are, therefore, needs and emergencies of the country, which primarily concern work, economic recovery and serious fiscal and economic reforms. We, on the other hand, are being forced to race and to come to the Chamber, immediately, when work is resumed, to argue about electoral law. (17.53) (Follows Bisinella). Frankly, I would like to remind you that I do not believe that this is the priority citizens feel for their lives, their families and their businesses. Having said that, I would like to point out the fact that we would have liked to race (as should have done) in order to address the real issues that people have to solve, since the problem of this country is to try to revive a minimum economy. On the subject of the debate on the electoral law, with the intervention of President Calderoli we have already pointed out that the incardination of the electoral law in the Commission took place on 19 November, even before the first month of discussion in the Commission was exhausted, where there had been very useful and interesting hearings. Although the climate guaranteed by the President of the Commission, Mr Finocchiaro, as well as the rapporteur on the measure, has allowed for an in-depth debate on certain issues, it has come to have the prospect, clearly announced by the Government, that in any case we would have arrived in the Chamber despite everything. This has led us to table many amendments, with the precise aim of countering the Government's will to force and strangle the parliamentary debate and to create an obstacle to electoral reform, which certainly serves and hopes - it is our intention - to be done in the best and most serious way. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] This is in order to apply to the regime and to allow our country, in the event of a vote, to go to elections with a well-made law that applies to the House and the Senate, if it will remain the system of bicameralism that we have; or vice versa, in the case of the reform of the Constitution, with a law that applies and is definitive for the new constitutional system. In the face of this situation we have even been prevented from being able to argue and therefore, our many amendments have had the spirit of asking the government politically with what electoral law this country can go to vote. We say this precisely by pointing out - and we stress this again now - the need for the electoral law to be accompanied by the draft Constitutional Reform Act, because otherwise we will enter into a further impasse and stalemate. And there would be further, very serious, constitutional legitimacy problems for which the law that should be enacted under these conditions would be faced with an appeal to the Constitutional Court, and therefore with an examination of eligibility, as has also been supported by the many lawyers and constitutionalists who have spoken in the Commission. Therefore, our aim was to say that certainly a serious country, which wants to be called civil and democratic, must have a serious electoral law. Our intention here is, therefore, to ask for this direction, but we want to do so - I repeat - in a serious and motivated way, overcoming the remaining problems. The first point is that today we are in the Chamber with a draft law to be examined in a rush, the so-called Italicum approved by the House, which is actually outdated. Therefore, we are in this Chamber debating something which has not seen a formal change in the Commission, since no amendment has been voted on, not even the rapporteur's amendments, which also give indications of the understanding of the Government and the majority forces of change in the draft law adopted only in the first branch of Parliament. It is a draft that we do not, in fact, have today as a formal text of law. We are still talking about intentions which, for goodness sake, in the Commission on many points have led to a kind of sharing between political forces, although, on the other hand, it should be pointed out that there the opposition forces had to make real battles to make themselves heard, using the instruments at their disposal. The nodes that remain open concern several elements. As has already been mentioned, the now famous judgment of the Constitutional Court n. 1 of 2014 has dismissed much of the electoral law currently in force, the so-called Porcellum. This was a very important judgment, which gave the legislator the need to take action to remedy and fill the legislative gap created. We first, as the North League, in the Commission (even with an agenda presented at the first signing of Senator Calderoli), wanted to stress precisely what the constitutional vulnus was, at the time when we were going to approve an electoral legislation with a constitutional system of bicameralism perfect as the one in force. In fact, if an accident were to result in an early vote, today as today the country would not be able to face the elections, not having serious electoral legislation. However, on this point there was no response from the government and the constitutionalists were very divided. Having said that, there are some points that deserve further consideration and that should be assessed. We also believe that [[Brusio. References by the President]] First of all, it is necessary, given the growing disaffection of people towards politics and institutions, to try to bring voters closer to politics and institutions, finally allowing them to return democratically to exercise the right to vote and freely choose their own representatives. We believe that the list leader system [[Brusio]] Ma'am, I'm sorry, but...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u64	Colleagues, it is impossible to proceed in the debate. If you want to resume New Year's work with a suspension, this is the right way. I would therefore advise everyone to lower their voices and listen to my colleague. Excuse me, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u65	Thank you, President. In other words, it is essential for us to make sure that we restore trust in people and citizens in order to get closer to politics, to be able to exercise their right to vote, to be able to choose their representatives and to know who is given their vote and then, in the end, who will be elected with the new electoral system. On the contrary, we believe that the current system, which we are talking about anyway and which in the Government's intentions is that of changing with blocked capilists, does not go in the sense we hope and that it should be realized in order to give real representation to the citizens: in fact, fatally, these blocked capilists will be imposed by the secretariats of reference. Therefore, the choice of the elector comes to translate, in fact, into a vote of limited preference; all the others, outside the capilist, in multi-name colleges will have to run with the system of preferences: this is a good thing. (at 6 p.m.) (Bisinella followed). However, we call for a reflection on this point in order to assess how best to proceed with the following objective: to give true compliance with the democratic principle of representation. It is okay that the electoral law determines, at the end of the voting, who really has won and is able to guarantee the governability, problem that unfortunately has always been experienced in the country; however, we believe that the majority prize to be given to the list, if the change is interpreted in this sense, must be made a serious evaluation. Just as we believe it is essential that we make a serious and thorough assessment of the barrier thresholds. We agree on the line that has emerged also thanks, and above all, perhaps, to the intervention of the North League and the minority forces. 18.02 (Follows Bisinella). I am referring to the fact that, always in accordance with the principle of democracy in this country (which, unfortunately, seems to be falling short with this Government, if we also think of the reform of the Senate of non-elects that the Government is carrying out), there is the possibility for citizens, precisely, to really know who will vote and that, in the majority prize, for the thresholds of barrier, representation is given also to the minority and opposition forces that, however, in fact and really represent important slices of electorate in the country. We therefore consider, for example, that the system of multiple applications should also be evaluated. I am referring, for example, to the possibility of presenting candidates in several districts, because this, in conjunction with the blocked capilists, in fact always affects the representation relationship between voters and elected. This is quite dangerous because, if you think so with reference to a Senate no longer elected, this prevents the freedom of choice of voters as one of the fundamental expressions of popular sovereignty fails. There would be a great deal of reflection that, when we hear the Minister's words here in this House, we hope that they will finally be carried out. We felt, however, that this could be done - rightly - in the appropriate place, which was that of the Commission, bringing before the House first the most important and urgent questions for the country and for the citizens who - I repeat - are the work that is lacking, the employment and a minimum of economic recovery. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups]] A technical analysis should have been carried out in the Commission on this measure and should also have waited for the course of constitutional reforms in the House. We hope that this can be done now. We will look at this and make proposals for common sense and improvements to the text that is going to come to this House. We basically call for the government to allow a serious and thorough debate to finally be held and not for the parliamentary debate to be further choked. On the constitutional prejudices, therefore, we consider that we abstain, precisely because we want an electoral law to be made, but we believe that it must be done well, that it is serious and with adequate time for examination. There are other emergencies. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u66	I would pray that we do not interpret the term "general discussion" in the sense that everyone discusses each other. I'd ask to listen. Anyone who needs to talk to someone can sit outside. We also need a sense of respect for fellow senators who speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u69	Mr Quegliariello (AP (NCD-UDC)). As we are not yet in general discussion, you, Mr President, if you will allow me to make a joke, have actually made a preliminary reference to constitutionality. While yours can be accepted, our Group - that of the People's Area - will vote against the preliminary constitutionality that has been presented. We believe that there was, in fact, a preliminary question of constitutionality on this measure: it consisted in the fact that an electoral law is organically part of a constitutional reform process. The amendments that President Finocchiaro will be presenting in the coming days are largely due to the need to consider what this House has done by approving the reform of bicameralism and Title V of the Constitution. So this puts a close link between the process of general reform and the electoral bill that we are going to discuss. In our opinion, this preliminary constitutionality was resolved by the short but significant intervention, which on behalf of the Government today made Minister Boschi, ensuring in fact that the safeguard clause will take into account the indissoluble link between constitutional reform and electoral law. It is not even possible to imagine an electoral law designed for a single branch of Parliament that does not take account of the reform of bicameralism. That safeguard clause is not the granting of time to this Parliament or to the legislature: it is a serious clause that says that the reform process must go on in an organic way. If this cannot be done, as we would have liked, through a bicameral Commission, it must be done at least by gaining vision. Even 2016 is therefore not a random date, but it represents the bet that this majority makes to conclude the reform process within a certain time. A time that contemplates, among other things, for the reform of the Constitution more profound than the history of Italy will have known if it will be brought to completion, even the holding of the referendum. For this reason, we must consider a date that is compatible with what, in the resolutions of the majority, is the time of the holding of a confirmation referendum, which cannot be celebrated before the summer of 2016. The date must therefore be later, I repeat, not for a kind concession, but for a necessity of seriousness and to safeguard the organicity of the reform. If this is the case, the amendment must be voted on without provisions when it falls, partly because this will enable this House to deal more seriously and calmly with the rest of the debate. That is the reason, Mr President, for our direction and the words of Mr Boschi convince us even more to vote for the rejection of any preliminary constitutionality. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u72	BRUNO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we will also vote against the constitutional prejudices, not only because the Minister, to whom we thank him, wanted to testify with his statement that what has been said for days is a fact due and done since today: we need this law, which is commonly called Italicum, being suitable for a single-chamber system, to enter into force necessarily after the constitutional reform of the Senate has concluded its process. The government does not need this, but I would advise that the rule that we should include should have the spirit to establish that the entry into force of the rule is set at a date not prior to the conclusion of the process of constitutional reform in the Senate. If that were not the case, we would find ourselves with a good electoral law for only one of the Chambers and in the other we would have to redo the Consultellum: this would really be a mess because it would produce an institutional crossroads that nobody would understand. By contrast, with this law, which will enter into force when the constitutional reform is operational, we will have a system law, in line with what the Constitutional Court has established with the known judgment. If we were to vote today for whatever reason, we would have a law that gives the government the opportunity, even with a secondary rule, to take us to the elections. The problem is that Italicum is packaged as a new law for a single House. Hence the necessity of which I said and which my friend Quagliariello referred. All the arguments I have heard in favour of accepting the question referred for a preliminary ruling seem to me to be more of a matter of substance. We, for example, care very much, Minister, Mr President, that it is not the list, that must reach that threshold, but the coalition. We have to make a choice. If we introduce the barrier threshold, it is because we do not want so many political actors to participate in political life. I remember that the Prodi government had 23 parties and I do not think that was a good signal, because if it rewarded representativeness, on the one hand it was also at the expense of the quality of the parliamentary debate. On the other hand, if we really want to eliminate a number of parties, we must make the coalitions, so that the path is easier than it would be with a single list, which should eventually make the agreement with the other parties at a later time, before the ballot. It would create a situation that we have already seen in the political experience of the municipalities where the institute of appearance is privileged, which in the long run does not hold. If we are to give preference to representativeness and governability and to choose the right mix that is necessary in order not to reward or penalise one of the two aspects, I believe it is necessary and necessary that all of us (and this will be debated in Parliament in the next few days) should reflect on the fact that the 40% barrier threshold cannot be left to a single list but to a coalition. Where the coalition or the list (because it is a choice, to show up alone) should not reach 40%, we would go to the ballot, as already established by Italicum. Today we are discussing the law that came from the House and nothing else, because unfortunately for what happened, for good and bad, even if we did a wide investigation that did not end with work in the Chamber but that will certainly be resumed, we can only vote against the prejudices, precisely because we voted with conviction that law (the so-called Italicum) in the House. We are convinced of the goodness of that text and believe that it should come into force after the conclusion of the process of constitutional reform. We are also convinced that with two or three further amendments it is a law that the Italians have long expected and that I hope we can adopt as soon as possible. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u75	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, I would first of all like to deny the vision which Mr Calderoli offered to this House - and therefore to those who listen to us - of the debate that took place in the Commission. Moreover, Senator Bisinella, who belongs to her own Group (the only two representatives in the Commission) clarified the matter. It is absolutely not responsive to the truth that internal divisions within the Democratic Party Group produced an acceleration and the vote of 19 December. The divisions, or rather the different visions within the PD are still there, will also be seen in the amending phase as finding a synthesis between these different visions, but there is no climate of division, nor has there been an obstacle, on the part of the PD that has prevented a conclusion in the Commission. Moreover, on the morning of 20 December, the day we voted, we did so in a compact and also convinced way, because with that vote, and also with the vote against that we are going to give today in a unified way, we wanted to say one thing basically: that it is absolutely essential to arrive at the approval of the electoral law. What urgency do you want to talk about? This electoral law was passed to the Senate by the Chamber of Deputies in March last year. We have entered into a serious and serene debate and we have also held serene and serious hearings in the Commission, we have not reached the conclusions because there are few political nodes that have remained, but whatever has happened in the Commission will weigh and weigh on the result in this House, because it will necessarily produce amendments that go in a certain direction. One thing I want to say to my fellow Members who are still making noises, many of whom are engaged in other discussions: that of 19 December is a demanding vote. Many senators have spoken of a violation of Article 72 of the Constitution, but it is an absolutely misplaced argument because Article 72 of the Constitution, in particular the last paragraph that has been invoked, requires the normal procedure of approval in the Chamber, article by article, of electoral laws and that is exactly what we are called to do. We voted on 19 December for the incardination in the Chamber of the measure for the date set by the Conference of the Leaders and for the conclusion of the process even without rapporteur, but we have never abdicated our primary duty to ensure, not only to the present majority and to the current Government, but to every majority and every government that will come, that there is a conscious vote, with a position and with a commitment from individual parliamentarians and individual senators. It is a demanding vote, on 19 December, because we cannot hide behind anything, not even - in this case - behind pre-constitutional majorities in the Commission. Each of us, every political group, will have to take responsibility here. Article 72 of the Constitution, the article which we now proudly claim to want to respect, is therefore called to the fore. No further postponement, therefore, no return back, no vote in favour of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, because all the arguments that have been offered are well-known, which we have already discussed in the Commission, some of which highlight a different vision that will obviously have been proposed also within the majority groups, because it is impossible to imagine that on such a serious and so fundamental subject for the life of a democracy we will arrive here in the Chamber or that we need someone to tell us what we have to do. Colleagues, I can say that I am reassured by the words of the Minister, who has been so kind as to reassure the souls, not in the sense of wanting to indicate a final date of survival - because I would consider it out of all logic an interpretation in these terms - but in the sense of telling us to share what emerged in the Commission, namely that we are faced with a law that applies only to the Chamber of Deputies and that is to say the only Political Chamber that will survive the reform that we have started in the Senate. It must be said that it is not wrong in itself to make an electoral law for a branch of Parliament, because normally one can intervene on each branch of Parliament and that does not determine in itself any unconstitutionality and no illegitimacy. The point, which was also widely discussed in the Commission, is that the composite electoral system that would come out - one for the House, on the basis of a principle that, through the majority system, would prefer governability, and the other for the Senate, which would prefer another criterion - would be unbalanced in itself and would not justify the distortion of the popular vote that would affect the House of Deputies. It is therefore the system itself that does not work and since we are all aware that we want to move forward seriously on the constitutional reform we are debating today in the House, but on which we will soon be debating again in this area of Parliament too, it is also on that front that we must show that we want to speed up and want to go through with it. That is why I am talking about taking responsibility. So let a government that follows this process - since we have a Minister for Constitutional Reforms who clearly follows these events - but here I demand the pride of an House that has been able, among other things, to vote on reforms that change the role of the Senate. It is precisely this pride that must lead us to claim also seriousness with respect to an electoral law that, not only will be worth after us, but also for a few years. Colleagues, the fact that the electoral law must be absolutely weighed down, reflected and voted with awareness and that it must also be guaranteed in its constitutionality, not only have we said it and supported it, but also voted, when, in relation to constitutional reforms, we introduced the principle - that as far as the Senate is concerned only the electoral laws - that these laws will be subject to the prior scrutiny of the Constitutional Court, which will have to sanction its constitutionality. Therefore, we do not want to move forward: we absolutely want to move forward with this speech, without denying and indeed confirming that there are still political issues to be addressed, but that none of us has any alibi: the government does not have them, but neither do we parliamentarians, nor the parliamentary groups. We have a duty to deal with the political issues that are still on the table, knowing that electoral law and reforms, for those who do not have a job or for those who live in uncomfortable conditions, are not the right thing or an absolute priority, but also knowing that many things are being done in a Parliament. Today we are discussing the electoral law, yesterday we discussed constitutional reforms, in the next few days we will discuss more. The basic issues and problems of our country, which are essentially economic ones, which concern the world of employment and - alas! - unemployment, these are problems that this Parliament and this Government have to face, but nothing prevents the adoption of electoral law in the meantime. Colleagues, we have been discussing the electoral law since this Senate took office and since the beginning of the legislature. I would like to make another point, because in the fury of assigning to the Government every fault and every responsibility we also end up denying ourselves. The government has accepted and made its own the ballot (as well as many other things), but the PD Group has already spoken about it before, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as our constitutionalists have also spoken about it. Above all we, in the famous "pillolato" (pillolato), had placed it as a condition. Therefore, today we defend this principle and we point out to those who today believe in this principle and this method, that it is the popular vote, because the ballot is not that you win or lose in any other way: at the ballot you win or lose for the popular vote and precisely this system avoids the production of an unconstitutionality. I do not dwell on the safeguard clause, because everyone has talked about it, but above all I know that the political forces are practically all in agreement, because everyone in the Commission has said so. The political crux of preferences remains, but here too we must not bend to our wishes the reading of the Constitutional Court's ruling. It has expressed a judgment of unconstitutionality with regard to a system - which was that specific system - and it has enshrined principles, which obviously apply in general. It is not that preferences are an obligation or a duty. The PD Group accepts the principle of preferences, because it is a possible mediation, but we are not, by far, for preferences. We believe that this is a democratic method, because with preferences we vote in the municipal, regional and European areas and therefore we can also vote in politics. It remains the node of the capilists, which will have to be addressed, but what does all this have to do with a question for a preliminary ruling? Why introduce, at this stage, speeches that will obviously be relevant to the amendment phase? The truth is that the debate that has taken place in this House in these two hours probably would have been more relevant to take place at 7 a.m. in the morning when we voted in this House on the incardination - but perhaps we were all tired of discussing it - and it will be much more appropriate to hold it at the next stage of the general discussion and discussion of individual amendments. Finally, some of my colleagues have pointed out the timing of the vote and the work of this House. This will depend on us, because it is the Assembly that - certainly with the cooperation of the Presidents of the various parliamentary groups, the President of the Senate and the relevant Minister and therefore also of the Government - will have to lead this path. There are no bottlenecks, however, because we have a great responsibility to have arrived in this House without a text defined by the Commission. This gives us responsibility to do things quickly and, above all, to do well, because we will be the ones to sign the electoral law of the future and to ensure that with this electoral law a path of democracy adapted to our Republic. I wish everyone a good job, but I urge us not to hide behind false problems. It is for these and for many other reasons - which I could introduce, but which are issues of substance that we will discuss later - that we have voted with conviction for the incardination of the electoral law on 19 December and that, with the same conviction, we vote against the questions of prejudice and the suspensive issue that have been put forward, asking for it to go ahead. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u78	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI). Mr President, a somewhat surreal debate is taking place in this House: we are discussing prejudices with regard to a safeguard clause. Instead of talking about why the law should be discussed or not, we began to talk about a safeguard clause that makes the prejudices themselves go away. This gives me some confusion, because it's like talking too much about tactics instead of strategy. In military art books it is stated that, when tactics become excessive, it is necessary to start again and renew the strategy Mutatis mutandis, in political books, when we talk about dorotheism - I don't want the ancient Christian Democrats - as a negative meaning of politics, it is said that dorotheism preferred solutions rather than principles. We are talking here about solutions instead of giving priority to principles and we are having so many discussions around the central point of voting having properly discussed a measure or not. I would like to renew the speech that we made on the famous night when we voted on the new timetable of work: discussing a measure properly means discussing it with respect for Article 72 of the Constitution and, therefore, voting on all the amendments and voting on the articles one by one in the Commission. This has not happened and we are bringing the measure to the House without a rapporteur. It has been said and said that there are so many precedents, but these are given by the need to approve a law within a time set by objective circumstances and not by the decision of the Government. Therefore, we are voting on these bill in opposition to the principles of military art, contrary to the principles of good politics and the Constitution. When we were a majority in the government and we made the mistake of bringing draft legislation without a rapporteur into the Chamber, I was told on the other side of the House that we were trying to bring, to debate and approve it, a measure which, being without a rapporteur, is against Parliament and I am against the laws against Parliament. They are against laws whose meaning is not discussed and which speak of safeguard clauses. Speaking of safeguard clauses, let me say that this clause stems from a further grip on the backs of Senator Calderoli, who once again achieved - let me say this - a low-alloy agreement because making an agreement on a safeguard clause even though and rather than talking about the meaning of a measure is not a good and fair thing. What is good and right is not to vote on a measure when you do not agree with it. I quote one thing contained in the provision: the ballot box. It is not an Italicum, a Consultellum or a Mattarellum, but a unicum because it would be the only law in the world where with the ballot a President of the Council is elected, which is virtual because he is not directly elected by a vote for the President of the Council, but to vote for Parliament. I think it's a big mess. A negotiation of which nothing is clear to me. And when nothing is clear, then we must use principles and not solutions. The principle is that an opposition is opposed to the proposal of the majority and the government of which the opposition is not part. Therefore, from my point of view, with the permission of my colleagues, because we are discussing an ethical issue and because in a mixed group like ours we will each vote as we wish, because the electoral law is the first ethical principle of a democracy, I will not vote to discuss this measure in this House. I shall abstain on the question referred by the 5 Star Movement and vote on the question referred by the SEL Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u79	Senator Ferrara, I take note of your statement but I remind you that a single vote will take place on the two questions for a preliminary ruling and then there will be another one on the suspensive issue. I put to the vote the question referred to you for a number of reasons by Senator Crimi and other senators (QP1) and Senator De Petris and other senators (QP2). It's not approved. GAETTI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gaetti, the result is obvious. Before proceeding to the vote on the suspensive question QS1, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators, I warn you that the petitum of the above question has been amended as follows: "deliberate, in accordance with Article 93 of the Rules of Procedure, to proceed to the examination of the Senate Act 1385 only after the examination of the Commission, in order to introduce the regulatory actions necessary to transpose the contents of the judgment of the Constitutional Court n. 1 of 2014, as well as the interpretative solutions indicated therein." I ask Senator Endrizzi if he confirms this reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u80	Yes, Mr President, this is basically just a brief return to the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u81	I put to the vote the question suspensive QS1 (text 2), presented by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u82	Mr President, we have already experienced this scene on Saturday morning of 20 December last, when we incardinated the electoral law. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I really cannot speak with this noise.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u83	I call on the senators who do not want to follow the debate to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u84	AIROLA (M5S). Our Constitution, in the last paragraph of Article 72, reads as follows: The normal procedure of examination and direct approval by the House is always adopted for the constitutional and electoral bill and for the legislative delegation, for the authorization to ratify international treaties, for the approval of budgets and accounts. I would like to know why when in that Conference of the Leaders, even a little 'animated, that Saturday morning, I, being the Leader I participated, I put this objection, I was answered: it can be done. You were there, ma'am. I then wonder what it was written for doing this, which is called the Italian Constitution, which unfortunately has already been trampled on and violated many times, as this House has been able to see. A written constitution, however, in such a simple form that it cannot be interpreted in any other way than simply by the way it is written. I wonder if you have the real awareness of what we're doing, what you're doing to this country. Just think of those who voted on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling: only my Group and the Mixed SEL Group; Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura in part had proposed, but then, evidently, changed its mind. I wonder if this country really still needs the destructive and destructive attitudes of parliamentary democracy, such as those you have demonstrated today and which you have shown before, as, for example, has already happened on the occasion of the ratification of the international treaties. Just think of the ratification of the international agreements Italy-France for the TAV: we protested and I was also expelled that day, as well as several subsequent times. This is because we have simply defended this little book - the Italian Constitution - on which the whole of our Republic is based. First I asked Minister Boschi to bring Matteo Renzi, President of the Council, to the House to explain to this country why we must be handcuffed, blackmailed, stopped by agreements that go beyond the interests of this Republic and this country. I wonder what you are doing out of here and tell the newspapers that you are working for the good of the country, all the more so because an electoral law is really the centerpiece of representation before even governing: the representativeness of the citizens who are outside and who elect representatives who represent them in a parliament that makes the laws. This is blocked today, I repeat, by interests that go beyond this Parliament. That's right. These small groups which form and debate within this House despite the fact that a Parent is speaking are still admissible; it is acceptable that a debate should take place here; it is still acceptable that there should be a lack of interest in this House. It is intolerable, however, that this should take place outside, and involving a criminal tax fraudster on a rule that keeps Members and Parliament nailed down on issues such as saving the evaders and making an ex-senator re-enforceable, rather than voting on a law first in the Commission and then in the House, as this little book says. I expect that in your replies - you who look at me in questioning with these faces - will come out because Article 72 of our Constitution today has been trampled on; because the indications of the Council have been trampled on; because we find ourselves with blocked lists. I will not take too much of your time because, although we are determined to fight every holy day, we understand that this Parliament has really been disarmed and that it is our fault, in the first place, ours in the general sense as parliamentarians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is the fault of the parliamentarians who have never resisted this government dictatorship, these characters who decide outside of these classrooms how the country will be governed, where it will go and what it will do, in the peculiar interests of the few and not of the Italian people. I shall then leave it to my colleagues, especially those who have taken care, as far as possible, to verify, vote and discuss in the Commission the measure on electoral law, the illustration of all the issues that we are facing today in such a sloppy, absolutely non-democratic way, unworthy of the Upper House of Parliament of a Republic like ours. 18.42 p.m. (Follow AIROLA). An unworthy way, which should cause journalists to shout at the scandal in the first place, who are absent, but who are there and who follow us from outside, who should write; the news should open by saying that for the interests of two and more people, private interests, which concern the power lobbies, which do not concern the interests of the Italians, Parliament skilfully goes on not to discuss things, to get snatched its power, the legislative one, the most important that there is, by bad guys, because this is: I'm sorry, I'm sick. Worse still, it is sad to see how the parliamentarians who belong to these people let themselves be managed as puppets, in total passivity, realize that perhaps what matters most is an armchair in here, rather than democratic practice, the democratic life of this nation. I did not have any answers that morning when I posed this problem: I was simply told that it can be done. It is a bit the answer that the journalists gave me when I asked whether it was news or not that Parliament is unable to work; in a democratic country it should be news. When in a conference I asked journalists in the foreign press if it was normal not to give such news, if in their country Parliament could not exercise its role, they looked at me falling from the clouds, as if to say: But what question is that? Of course it's news. Our reporters have turned their backs on me and told me that this has been the case for 20 years. This is a bit of what I have heard before in some speeches: but in the end it is a practice, it goes on like this. I do not know, but I think that there really is no room for debate in this Parliament, at least not under these conditions, not under the conditions of not having an electoral law with a rapporteur, as Senator Calderoli said before: that too is a impairment of parliamentary functions; not under the conditions of having Ministers, Presidents of the Senate, Presidents of the Republic shaking their heads and saying that it can be done in the face of such serious facts. These are very serious facts. And the fact that this article is being trampled on is a very serious fact. I look forward to an appropriate response in your speeches, an adequate motivation for this electoral law thing to be done. But at this point, then, you know what? Put a good trust, so much can be done. You've done it all the time in here for 32, 33 times, I don't know how many they are anymore, we've forgotten about them. Put a good trust: we will vote with an unconstitutional law, which will reward governance, which seems to be the only issue that is at heart, not the representativeness of a people. The governability, because so there is no responsibility on the part, first of all, of the parliamentarians to take responsibility for the problems of this country. Responsibility: it is the basis of governance, not a law that passes over the proportions of the people's choices to award disproportionate majority prizes, as you have always done, at least in the last eight years, with an unconstitutional law. It will happen that in eight years maybe we will find that the Italicum, even that, was unconstitutional, that even in that case we will have mistaken, should not have voted. But everything runs smoothly, it always flows smoothly. I think that perhaps it is unnecessary to have this debate. I realize this especially today, since you will probably already take the planes, as happened that Saturday morning. Because what is important in the end is to make an announcement and write somewhere, in some newspaper paid with public money probably of some member of your party, that Renzi brought home also yet another great electoral law that served the country. So much so that Napolitano two years ago, when he was re-elected, said that it was the only thing this Parliament had to do. But she's been standing there since March in the Senate; we could argue, but no, there were other imperatives. I leave to my colleagues the burden and the honour of telling how unfair this mechanism of linking the electoral bill to a constitutional reform of the disgusting Senate, which we have already opposed. Among other things, there is no guarantee that things will go as you suppose, because there is a referendum involved and, unless you already know that you can bend the Italian people with a thousand televisions and a thousand televisions so that things go in a certain way, I would stick to the decision of the Italian people. I don't know if it makes any sense to continue this discussion. Perhaps you are right; at this point it is better to close the doors, go home and wait for Matteo Renzi to tell us what he decided with Verdini, and then vote accordingly. Clearly, those who will be part of a certain team will have to vote in a certain way, and those who will be part of the other team will vote in another way, in the same way. We will try to pursue consistently the demands for which the citizens have voted, those of endowing this country with democratic instruments, of important laws that have never been discussed. I'm opening a parenthesis so much here we're at the chat. Today in the Commission I work in the Senate began the discussion of the measure on citizenship income. I already know that you will try in every way to block it, but that would be a measure that would really be worth discussing right now. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I do not know if they write to you, but to me, on average, citizens do not write that they need an electoral law: the things they ask are an income, a job, the possibility of earning honestly life, not to be enslaved. Probably the plan of this majority and of this Government is another: to deprive citizens, as well as the right to work, as was done with the jobs act, and the right to have a decent life, which could be guaranteed with the income of citizenship, even the last choice they could exercise: to vote a Parliament that works for them. So I conclude my speech, hoping that people will see, before the final collapse, that in addition to work and dignity, they have also lost their freedom. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u85	Senator Pegorer is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are all aware that the Senate is about to take one of the most significant steps in republican history. It is a first and foremost necessary approach towards the country, which has long awaited and requires a gesture of responsibility of political forces, in the face of the need to give a complete and modern response, at the same time, to the inevitable need to reform the current electoral system. Out of all technicalism, in this question, addressed not only by those who look at and comment on the facts of everyday political life, but also by those who more simply and perhaps with greater transparency observe the torments of the debate among political forces, materialize the real object of our confrontation: how to achieve in the Italian political system, within the process of overcoming the perfect bicameralism - I would finally say - a fair balance between the need for stability of governments, an objective considered constitutionally legitimate by the Constitutional Court, and a broad guarantee of representativeness, the latter's need all the more felt in a constitutional system that will provide for a single elective Chamber. I quote no accident a passage from Senator Finocchiaro's speech on 20 December last. I would add, however, a further premise to any decision we are about to take. Precisely because it is not a question of mending our electoral system, but in reality of designing with the reform of the electoral system of parliamentarians the traits of a modern democracy able to guarantee representation and governability, it is necessary to move with determination along the direction of an electoral reform that will have to "serve" for a not short time; a reform, therefore, that will be able and will have to redesign in depth not only the traits of our political and parliamentary confrontation, the same nature and identity of the current political forces and their leadership, but that will be able and will have to change for better the same relationship between citizens, politics and institutions. Therefore, we cannot think of a new electoral law that is good only for today or worse useful to those who think at this stage of being able to count on the majority of possible consensus. On the contrary, the new electoral law will have to contribute to relaunching our political system within the institutional reform processes that have already begun, in order to make participation in democratic life more permeable, aware and effective, to guarantee every political sensitivity, to reduce the dramatic distance between citizens and political life, to foster decision-making processes and to make the consequent responsibilities recognizable. It does not seem to me to be an easy task, much less to be linked to the intentions and beliefs of a single political party. The debate to which we are called rather recognises the centrality of the role of Parliament, of all the sensibilities present, without any government force. In fact, it is a question of unraveling and resolving in a transparent way a crucial issue for the future democratic life of our country. Well, to use an expression dear to all of us, at least in this House, the combined arrangement of what has been said so far, when compared to what has been said and done in the competent Commission, leads me to say that some progress has certainly been made in relation to the text that has come from the House, now put to the attention of the House in its entirety. I am thinking in particular of some of the contents of the same agenda approved on 9 December last, namely some of the amending proposals put forward by President Finocchiaro in the debate in the Commission; I am thinking of the introduction of effective implementation systems of Article 51 of the Constitution, the raising of the threshold for obtaining the first-round premium, a single lower threshold for entry; the granting of the majority prize to the list, thus discouraging the creation of coalitions between parties linked by simple reasons of opportunity, although in my opinion it should be carefully considered on this point, perhaps as a faculty and not as an obligation, the introduction of possible mechanisms of appearance in the event of a ballot to ensure greater flexibility in the system. The debate so far, even as - let us be frank - explicit and direct consequence of the agreement on the formulation of the so-called Italicum "2.0," does not seem to solve in my opinion the very delicate issue concerning the choice of parliamentarians, an issue which everyone recognized as central and very important the greater the disaffection of citizens for politics and we are certainly in this season. On the other hand, the node concerning the return of the scepter to the citizens in the choice of their representatives has been affecting political confrontation in electoral matters for about a decade. We know, now with sufficient practical proof of each of us, that the gap between politics, Parliament and the daily lives of our fellow citizens has been partly determined by the system of blocked lists for the election of Members. That is why an option regarding the re-introduction of small single-member colleges would certainly be preferable and optimal in this context. The debate over the last few months, however, gives us sufficient convergence on the possibility of re-introduction into our parliamentary electoral system of preferences. A choice that, in my opinion, in any case clashes with the eventual prediction of the so-called blocked capilists. In fact, with the introduction of a mixed system of preferences and blocked capilists, which can then run for office in several districts, profiles of unconstitutionality of the same reform could be established, as pointed out by several experts during the hearings of the 1st Commission. In addition, there would be real disproportion between competing lists in the way Members are elected: for example, between lists with fewer votes (largely elected, if not all, with the capilist system) and the list obtaining the majority prize (largely elected with preferences). While recognizing the possibility that a number of Members may be chosen by the list referents on account of particular needs of political party representativeness or because they possess a high profile and significant cultural and institutional knowledge, such a system would, in fact, result in a particularly strong caesura among the elected with the preferences and the "named" who, according to some projections, could be equal to about 60% of the elected parliamentarians in the case, for example, of 100 blocked capilists. It would therefore be preferable, at this point, to assume sic et simpliciter the system of preferences for the election of the new Parliament with lists of candidates relatively short, guaranteeing the alternation of gender and with the possibility of expressing at most two preferences, that is, one for a candidate woman and the other, penalty for the nullity of the second, for a candidate man, or the opposite. In my opinion, small electoral colleges should also be provided for, a way, this way, to give effective and further recognition of candidates. Some argue, however, that small colleges have many problems with the allocation of seats, especially with regard to political forces with less electoral consensus. However, this problem could be solved by means of a mechanism for allocating seats which avoids distorting effects, i.e. real feedback between voting and representation. Finally, Mr President, I would like to conclude by pointing out that it is not appropriate to adopt an electoral law applicable to the Chamber of Deputies alone, at a time when a bicameral system is still in force. We have already talked about this in this sitting. I also think it is necessary for the measure, in its final drafting, to include the introduction of a safeguard clause, which provides for the application of the new electoral law when the current constitutional reform comes into force. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u87	Senator Taverna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u88	Sorry, Madam President, I was distracted, but let's talk about nothing, there is no electoral law. At 7 a.m. on 20 December, after the most ridiculous of the night sessions for the approval of the worst law of stability ever seen before, in spite of the regulations, the procedures of parliamentary work, but also the most basic rules of good conduct, a group leader was summoned to incardinate the discussion of the electoral law in the Chamber. The electoral law of which today begins the general discussion without even a text to be discussed, without a mandate to the rapporteur, without a deadline for tabling amendments to the House, without taking into account the amendments tabled by the League (let us remember, there were 10,500). Perhaps the League had something to say, but we do not know: we do not know because then, from worthy opposition pretended what it is, it withdrew everything, content with the gift, by Minister Boschi, to provide for the safeguard clause that paraded them until 2016. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It has also prevented the discussion of our 25, which was obviously on the subject, as we are able to do. The only concrete and democratic proposal that exists today is that of the 5 Star Movement. At the time we presented an electoral bill that would allow the citizens of this country to actually be represented as the ballot boxes sanction, without having to wait for a pact to be implemented: agreement yes, agreement no, Berlusconi yes, Berlusconi no, or what you are deciding behind us, but that we will pay on our skin. We are back in the Chamber to face a 2015 that everything will be, except what you want to make believe: the year of growth, turning, changing direction and rhythm. Of "Ritmo," gentlemen, there is only the old FIAT, which perhaps we will be forced to buy back, considering the purchasing power that Italians continue to maintain. If hunger wages are added to the unholy effects that the new legislation on work will have, it is not difficult to see the 30-year leap back that our country is making, instead of the long leap forward that it could have made if only it had been governed by a political class other than the current one: by someone - I know - honest, like us. This government certainly does not start the year dealing with the anti-corruption measure. No: capital mafia we pretend that it does not exist, moreover Rome, raped and disemboweled by previous and current joints, colluse and corrupt, is only a pebble in the shoe of the famous runner Renzi, who says to run (but where he is going nobody knows). Today we are talking about nothing: it is the only thing you know everything about. We must remind the Italians of one thing (I am no longer speaking to Members of this House because they have shown that they are all happy to respond to their master): let us remind the Italians that there is no draft electoral law to be discussed today in this House. The Premier, on the other hand, gives us a tax decree that, as the Revenue Agency supports (so not the 5 Star Movement), with the norm that establishes the non punishable evasion below the threshold of 3% of the taxable, not only gives a hand to the evaders, but removes at least 16 billion euros to the coffers of the Erario. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli]] He's taking them off to the public; he's taking them off to those services that all of us, paying taxes, should expect the state to provide. Instead we are here to accept the "tweettino", the message and the various proclamations that our Premier manages to make. In addition, the Revenue Agency also supports and clearly states that the decree creates an unjustified area of non-criminality. You're illegal, you make illegal laws. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But this, by now, in here, is the practice. This is the only practice that you continue to respect; everything else has gone smoothly. This country needs a few things today. Among these, a balance needs to be restored between what the State demands and what the State gives. During the European Semester, which has gone completely unnoticed, our Premier simply had to tell Europe that the Italian people are no longer able to bear the tax burden they bear without having anything in return. It has been said for years that tax matters have to be changed, but the only change that had to be made was to be a cut of at least 20 percentage points to the tax burden and then incriminate each evader without reservation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Our Premier simply had to ask for our debt to be frozen: a debt that every day inexorably exceeds his own record (over 2,000 billion). I wonder why: why does the Italian people not stop for a moment and wonder how, in 40 years, it has been able to have 2,000 billion debts without seeing any increase in its welfare, but - indeed - sinking into the misery in which we all find ourselves? All of you outside this palace, because you are not in misery, you have guaranteed your salaries and guaranteed your pension. So, who cares about the Italian people? You're good. That's good. Our Premier was to ask Europe for a freeze that Europe would be forced to accept if it wanted Italy to remain an integral part of a Community project. Otherwise, gentlemen, as we are proposing: so many greetings and kisses! It can be done. Let's get out of the euro. On the other hand, why should we remain in a Europe which is the only thing that asks us to destroy our Constitutional Charter and to pass an electoral law such as the one that comes from the House? An electoral law that you didn't even show us here in the Senate: it went by the Commission in the air, you watched it and you decided that our President of the Republic, who we salute in advance and thank - ironically - for everything he did, could go on television and say, what? "Habemus electoral law!" "Because he had to have something to say in his last speech." Gentlemen, I'm telling you honestly, you've gotten tired of us. In fact, personally, you made me sick. You must decide to put aside your useless, insulting and sterile internal disputes, without any effect for the Italian citizens, except those congenial to you, which have led to the loss of workers' rights and the attempt - yes, indeed, inexpressive - to make our Democratic Republic a surrogate of that dictatorship to which you aspire, but which you cowardly continue to mask. The electoral law, which you have used so far to embark on those who were useful to you, with the representatives legitimately chosen by the Italians is, in our constitutional system, the first real instrument for the implementation of democracy. Do not forget that once you have given a vote, you have given it to someone to whom you delegate what he has to do with your life. If you continue to give vows to people who make a mess of your life, then you cannot complain about what you find on your shoulders! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I need the Italians to begin to realize that what they are asking for is due to them. We're not begging anything from anyone! Everything we lack, public service, assistance, work, is due to us, because we 70% of taxes pay it, we are not part of the ranks of the great evadors to whom Renzi made yet another gift! No. We are Italian citizens and 70% of taxes on our little salary weighs, it weighs! And if you take us off, in addition to 70 percent, we have nothing left for public service! You have to give it back to us. We don't ask and we don't want gifts, we want what you have to guarantee us. You're tired. You've gotten tired of everything we put in the coffers of the state going into your pockets! It must be destined for this country. [[Applause from Senator Petrocelli]] Anyway, you're really deaf! There is no one left in the Chamber and this would be the general debate on the electoral law? The last mockery: you did not have the debate in the Commission; we had to do it in here, and where are you? Where are you hearing about the electoral law? Where is the general discussion? You're ridiculous! [[Applause from Senator Petrocelli]] So, do you think it is normal, ladies and gentlemen, that we are here discussing the electoral law without knowing its content? The only points we know are those that come from the newspapers or from the drafts of a palace in the center. Until a few days ago it was established that the barrier threshold was at 8 percent, now it turns out that it is at 3 percent. Renzi will say, as he has been doing for months, that in this way the blackmail of the parties will be avoided, but Italians must know that in this way the opposition will be eliminated, the possibility of hearing a voice different from the choir. It will result, gentlemen, in a single-colored government, with an absolute majority in the House and, if they manage to bring home the constitutional reform, we will have a Senate of the same party that enjoys benefits and situations that cannot be given to a Senate that is not elective. Then we make them walk together, the bill, so one thing passes on one side and on the other, and you take home the package that includes our democracy, our life and our rights. And then, will the chapter "safeguard clause" be there? Isn't he gonna be there? Today the Boschi said there is, so until 2016 you all have the chair: you can organize, this year, what you have to do next! Gentlemen, we are witnessing another act of tragedy staged nine months ago by old and new actors, all disinterested in the problems of this country. But if you're canceling all the opposition's power to the sound of trusts and white delegations, well, I really hope you won't be able to escape the inexorable judgment that this monster of legislature will have in the history and memory of the Italians. Thank you for the attention of the empty chairs. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u89	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u90	Madam President, I begin by contextualizing this debate. The Nazarene Pact was born on the basis of a monocameral system, with second-level election of the Senate, reform of Title V of the Constitution and electoral law with coalition prize. Forza Italia, while being an opposition party, sat down at the reform table with the awareness that never, in sixty years, an electoral law has been passed with a different and wider majority than that pro tempore to the Government, and that now is the time to turn the page in the interest of the country. And we don't change our minds. We have set ourselves first of all a problem of governability, to get out of the swamp of parliamentary agreements that make up governments regardless of the will of the Italians. For this reason, too, in the version of the Italicum approved by the House, a principle was affirmed which corresponded to our specific request: the reduction of party fragmentation, the fact, that is, that in order to have a mature and completed democracy, efficient and decisive, we must introduce corrective measures to the system merely proportional. Is this not democratic? It seems no, to hear many of the constitutionalists heard by the 1st Commission, more concerned about the representativeness and non-proportionality between votes cast and seats obtained than from the governability, which was also a principle of equal level enshrined in the judgment of the Council. And so if there is a majority prize, the barrier threshold must virtually disappear. So we should say that the Spanish system is not democratic, which has also been referred to as a solution to the electoral rebus that emerged from the decision of the Council, because it leaves no representation of parties that have a double-digit result. Or the French one, which grants only two Members to a National Front despite 13.6 percent of the consensus. Or the English one, where the third forces also reach 23 percent, but only a few seats. Or finally, the same German system, which has so much been mentioned, which provides for a threshold of 5%. In the first Italicum the barrier thresholds were more than doubled, which still remained among the lowest among modern democracies. The risk would have been to leave out of Parliament political forces that collect not millions of votes, as has been said, but according to the results of the last parliamentary elections, forces between 1.5 and 1.7 million votes. Would that have been a crime? No, only a price to be paid to governability, because it cannot be allowed that 1.7 million votes prevent those who vote represent perhaps 13 million to govern the country. With the second Italicum, instead, the party that wins gets the absolute majority, since the prize has been introduced to the list, and the opposition will instead be divided and fragmented, a set of peoples without leaders unable to propose themselves as future power of government. With the future Senate that will be the result of a second-level election and therefore in hand almost completely to the Democratic Party, Italy is profiling a ruling party and a non-existent opposition. If this had happened with Berlusconi in the government, I wonder how many in this Senate would stand up to shout at the coup. We do not do this because we believe it is essential to safeguard the principle of governability, but for the reasons just put forward we strongly demand that the coalition premium be restored and the barrier thresholds raised. We realize that problems have arisen within the majority of the government, which have led to a change of philosophy with the lowering of the thresholds to 3% both for those who join forces, and for those who decide to run alone. A harmful backward march, which contradicts the spirit with which the Nazarene covenant was signed. On the other hand, it is reasonable to raise the threshold in order to obtain the majority prize from 37 to 40%, even in the light of the remarks made by many constitutionalists in the first Commission. Another topic much debated in these weeks is that of preferences, which Professor Panebianco this morning on the...Corriere della Sera" has appropriately defined as an exchange vote. In the basic text, there were no short lists, and I very much agree with Professor Ceccanti that the actual power of the voter in the choice of his representatives is as great as the smaller the constituency, and it is irrelevant that there are blocked lists or preferences. The main variable is that of the size of the constituency, therefore, and not the electoral instrument adopted. Now - another substantial novelty - preferences have been reintroduced, with the exception of blocked capolistures. A little Mattarellum, you know, and a little Consultellum. We have tabled amendments to reduce at least the number of multiple applications, precisely with a view to reducing the damage. Everyone can legitimately have his own opinion, but even in the case of preferences it would not be bad to look at what happens in other democracies. Well, the formula of the open list, experimented during the first Republic in Italy, was used only in another European country: Greece. Maybe that means something, or maybe not. But, even looking within our borders, preferences are expressed for the City Council, for some Regions and for the European elections. If we look at the rate of preference expressed, it is recorded that throughout the Centre-Nord hardly exceeds 30%, despite very expensive electoral campaigns, with peaks of 14% in Lombardy and, on the contrary, 90 in Calabria and there is not a single election with the preferences in which the participation rate exceeded that of the political elections, which from 1993 onwards do not foresee preferences. It is said that without the preferences parliamentarians depend on who appointed them, but should make reflect the fact that in the 2008-2013 legislature, with the Porcellum reigning and with the long lists blocked, there was the highest number of refugees in the history of the Republic. Experience then teaches that preferences penalize women and young people, distort electoral campaigns because the candidate's first opponents become, not the competitors of the other lists, but those who run on his own list, and are a system that lends itself to the conditioning of the lobby outside the parties, when not of organized crime. Does it not sound paradoxical to say that we must reduce the costs of politics and then exponentially increase the costs of entering politics? Only a country afflicted with historical amnesia like ours can seriously discuss the possibility of re-introduced preferences, silent - I remember - as absolute evil to rage of people at the time of the referendum Signs. But there is another point that I would like to stress as a reminder to so many of my fellow suicidal aspirants who want to restore their preferences. In the first Republic the vote of exchange was not a crime: no one could be prosecuted for an exchange vote. The exchange vote became a crime in the early 1990s, but was limited to mafia-political relations. The Severino law has now extended its scope to an enormous extent. I invite you to read the Severino law well and bring the lawyer after you when you go to collect your preferences, since we are a country that has not yet clarified exactly what the border between legitimate representation of interests and parliamentary corruption is. However - another element - we are now faced with a new fact. The Constitutional Court, in judgment No. 1 of 2014, has initiated a constant control over Parliament in the matter of electoral law. The former Presidents of the Audit Committee have confirmed this and the constitutionalists have offered us valuable legal ideas. But an electoral system is not only a system of rules inscribed within an institutional framework: it is a mechanism that, in translating votes into seats, also acts as a system of rules that creates constraints and opportunities for political actors, which affects their strategies and also acts on the behaviour of voters. Therefore, when assessing the possible options for reform, there is no such thing as constitutionality, and there must not be only constitutionality criteria to be respected: considerations of political reasonableness should also be taken into account. We have been placed before such a list of profiles of unconstitutionality that it seems almost an impossible equation to draw up the new electoral law, unless we return equal to that of the first Republic; the first: the Senate without a new uniform law in the Chamber; the second: the cumulation of majority prize and barrier thresholds; the third: the blocked capilist introduces a different legal regime for candidates who are on the same list; the fourth: even with the introduction of preferences in the colleges, the problem posed by the mechanism of the allocation of seats on the basis of the national result and not on that of the result in the individual colleges is not solved. Professor Azzariti even theorized that with the promulgation of the Italicum the same ratio of the law would fail with regard to the criterion of governability. The constitutional consequence would be the inability of the legislation to achieve the stated objective and would have no constitutional value to argue that the issue will be remedied with the constitutional reform of the Senate. A political agreement cannot have any value when assessing constitutional legitimacy. For Professor Azzariti it would be a law hardly promulgatable and, if it were promulgated, it would certainly be unconstitutional. The solution would therefore be to adopt an identical electoral law between the House and the Senate. Vote with the proportional without award derived from the decision of the Senate Council and with the Italicum to the House would not be possible, not because you can not have two different laws for the two Chambers, but because in Italicum the majority prize (assigned to the first minority) and the barrier would be two strong distortions of a system that presents itself as proportional and therefore are reasonable only if the system as a whole is potentially able to ensure governability. If by definition Chamber and Senate do not guarantee the same, solid, majority, the couple Italicum plus Consultellum (provided that it is a law actually applicable) would not be constitutional and extend to the Senate the Italicum would risk having different ballots and awards awarded nationally also to the Senate. A veritable constitutional obnoxiousness. A first solution was identified with the agenda, adopted in the first Commission, Calderoli, which was based on the hearings of the Presidents emeritus of the Council, Silvestri and Tesauro, and which proposed a safeguard clause with rules that would make the Consultellum applicable until the entry into force of the constitutional reform. Today Minister Boschi has taken a significant step forward to dissolve this node, saying that the Government is in favour of a safeguard clause at Italicum, which will bring it into force in 2016. We would add that it would be more appropriate to foresee that Italicum should enter into force not before concluding the process of constitutional reform. Finally, we remain convinced that the coalition award would be the best solution, because with the list prize you are in fact likely to have, instead of the all-embracing coalitions, the phenomenon of omnibus lists that then reproduce the same negative effects. In conclusion, this law has the advantage of making a winner recognizable on the very evening of the vote, but with the prize on the list the duel will no longer be between two blocks, two coalitions or two poles, but between two parties, or better between two party lists that could contain inside members of a series of different political subjects. This, combined with the 3% barrier threshold, will result in a dominus party list of Parliament and a non-existent opposition. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u91	Senator Scalia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u92	Mr President, a year ago Matteo Renzi, then secretary of the PD, but not yet President of the Council, marked the decisive turning point in the debate on the electoral law: he offered to all political forces the willingness of the majority party to give agreement on any electoral law guaranteeing governability, offering three possible solutions to the debate, but declaring itself open to any other found the broadest consensus. That offer, as well as the government allies, was collected by Forza Italia. This resulted in a compromise solution, in the highest sense of the term. A solution for which each of the political forces that signed the pact chose not to perch on its own ideal of electoral law, but to seek consensus on a formula that guaranteed governance, representation and respect for the constitutional prediction of direct, free and personal voting. This proposal for a law has been greatly improved by the latest agreements reached. It is not a perfect law for the only reason that there are no perfect electoral laws. Sturzo wrote that according to history the electoral laws that are an unmistakable expression of it are adapted and therefore it is not only a question of preferring the system that has minor drawbacks, but what in given time and place seems more suitable, more responsive to the general conditions of a country, a continent, a civilization. For this reason, the constituent Fathers wanted to leave electoral discipline to ordinary law, although this is the most important of the institutional laws after the Constitution: in order not to stiffen it and allow it to be adapted to the evolutions of the political system. Well, the bill under consideration, with the amendments agreed, guarantees in a high way - taking up the words of Sturzo - in this time and in this place and in relation to the general conditions of our country and our civilization, the three objectives that a good electoral law must ensure. It guarantees governability, with a reasonable majority prize, to the list that wins in the first round getting at least 40% of the consents or that, having not reached the quorum in the first round, wins the ballot. Moreover, the prize to the list and not to the coalition allows us to overcome one of the most obvious limits of the majority electoral laws that our system has known in the last twenty years: having induced the formation of artificial coalitions, only electoral, ready to break down to the first difficulties of the legislature. This was the destiny in the years of both the center-left coalitions and the center-right coalitions. Thus, governance is assured to the highest degree possible by the double turn, a system that allows the electoral body to choose between political forces that are still minority, the one to which the legitimacy to govern is attributed. Representation, on the other hand, is guaranteed by a reasonably low barrier threshold (3 per cent), which allows even the smallest political forces to be present in Parliament, without fragmentation affecting governability, as this is ensured by the majority prize on the victorious list. I believe that the draft law we are debating - again in our current political system - achieves the best possible summary of the two main functions of an electoral law: to ensure governance and to produce representation. This, in fact, favours greater representativeness without compromising governance; this in the awareness that, in a parliamentary system, representation is never an end in itself but is in function of the legitimacy to legislate and to contribute to the government of the country. It is not, in fact, a question of presenting to the sovereign the demands of subjects - rem-praesting, in order to go to the etymology of the term - but of allowing the people to erect themselves as sovereign. Finally, the direct, free and personal character of the vote is guaranteed by small colleges, in which the blocked leader represents the party almost as the candidate in the one-name colleges: it is the figure with which the party presents itself in that college. There is also the possibility of electing the few remaining MEPs to the college with a preference vote - including gender voting. I do not hide that this is the part of the law in which the compromise reached seems less satisfactory: too high is the percentage of the nominations compared to the Members chosen with the preferences. The report could be made more appropriate by reducing the number of colleges to 60. However, it is undeniable that the size of the college makes the leader recognizable by the voters, so much as to induce the parties (it is the reasonable hope) to candidate people who are perceived as the best expression of the territory or to candidate personalities even foreign to the same, but of recognized value. I repeat, the leader will be the face, the personal history, the credibility with which the party will present itself in the college. On the other hand, the small size of the college will make the electoral campaign for candidates sustainable through the system of preferences, allowing the degenerations that this system has caused in the past to be overcome - even by strict control of the respect of the ceilings of expenditure by the individual candidates. And I come to the two positive innovations of the law that we are examining in relation to past experience. The first: unlike the electoral laws of 1993 and 2005, the current is linked to the reform of our Constitution and, in particular, to the bicameralism of equality and therefore, in the perspective, it fits into a coherent context of constitutional rules. In other words, if in the past twenty years the failure of the various attempts to reform the second part of our Constitution has put all the weight on electoral laws alone of the demands for reform of the political-institutional system, with the results unfortunately known to all of us, we now have the concrete possibility and the duty to forge an electoral law consistent with the constitutional framework within which it is going to be incorporated. Some have proposed that this link be ensured by making the entry into force of the new electoral system conditional on the final launch of the constitutional reform. The proposal makes sense, but it exposes us to the risk that many, tempted by the electoral system resulting from the Constitutional Court ruling, might prefer to sabotage constitutional reform in order to go to the vote with that system. Better then than today announced by Minister Boschi: a reasonable deadline for the entry into force of the electoral law, which allows Parliament to complete the reform process, but which is independent of it. Of course, the constitutional reform that is currently under consideration in the Chamber of Deputies does not address the issue of the form of government, which is deeply connected with that of electoral law. However, the electoral system that has emerged, focused on the list prize and the possible second round of ballots, will in fact produce the affirmation of a Parliamentary Government of the Prime Minister, for the political visibility that candidates for the Presidency of the Council will have in the electoral confrontation and for the circumstance that the leader of the party who has won, in the first or second round, the elections will become this function. The figure of the President of the Council will be considerably strengthened. In fact, he will be the leader of the political force that alone will have 55% of the members the only House called to give confidence to the government and can, moreover, use, in translating legislative measures the actions of the Executive, the new powers that the reform assigns to the government in the legislative process. The other favourable circumstance today is the concrete possibility that the new electoral law does not, as happened in the past, have the consent of the only majority of government, but is - as should always be the definition of the rules of the game - the meeting point of majority and opposition. The consensus of the opposition could be much wider than that which the agreements reached so far foreshadow, if only - and this is the invitation I make - it were objectively to look at the merits of the bill and to abandon preconceived positions. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u93	Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u94	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, I am trying to be serious about such a serious matter, although I see that attention is not what should be held in an important debate on the electoral law. You can't get up one morning and think you're surgeons, also claiming to enter the operating room, because the night before you watched an episode of "Grey's anatomy." On the other hand, the ability to handle a blade doesn't make a butcher a surgeon; and I don't think anyone here wants to get operated on by a butcher, no matter how trustworthy it is: very good perhaps in sectioning a quarter of beef. In the same way, one cannot (nor must) invent legislators just because the king wants it and in a very delicate context, because of the very existence of the democratic system, such as that of the electoral law. On the other hand, this time too, I have to point out irresponsible behavior. I do not claim to be referring to constitutional reforms and electoral laws, which are their main features. However, I still have a vivid lesson from Professor Martines, who, a few decades ago, I was lucky enough to listen to at the university. A scholar emeritus, who had an almost sentimental connection to the Constitution, so much to be defined several times among the last romantic because he stated that it is not true that the Constitution did not work; it is not true that it must be changed because it does not allow the stability of government. This stability in Italy was not because the party system did not allow it; and it is then the party system that, if anything, must be modified, not already the Constitution, which certainly did not want it as it is now and cannot therefore be held responsible for it. It is good, therefore, that, before putting hand to the foundations of our order (because the electoral law is one of these founding stones), it is seriously reflected on the degree of its implementation. This was his deep conviction, which he also transmitted to those who had the fortune, like me, of having him as a teacher, and which reflected the concept, dear to him, of the Constitution as becoming, as a source of normative processes that should be explored in their unexplored potential, in order to develop them to the best of the expansive capacity of our Charter. Hence his aversion to the so-called material Constitution, which was evoked out of proportion yesterday as it is today, to justify the triumph of force over the rules and to which - alas - I also had to assist in this House because it has turned into a reminder, sometimes pedantic and sometimes hypocritical, of the precedents whenever the Rules of Procedure have had to be folded to the Diktats of the majority. Martines reminded us that, in the event of a fracture between a fundamental constitutional norm and the underlying material Constitution, the prevalence will always be the first, as the only formally legal one that, even if emptied of all contents, will continue to be valid as belonging to the order until it is eliminated from the order itself. There is in this passage, in net terms, the distinction between fact and right, between being and having to be, as Ainis himself has repeatedly reminded us in some of his articles. This distinction is rooted in the genetic code of constitutionalism, which did not by chance obtain its baptism with the advent of the written Constitutions, after the two great Revolutions - the French one and the American one - of the late eighteenth century, which is the true great legacy to the longing for democracy and freedom of the past century, as the De Monticelli reminds us. It is since then that it is no longer the king who makes the law, but it is the law that makes the king, or at least so it should be in a rule of law. But in Italy the right is now a fig leaf on the naked body of the sovereign. It is with this spirit and with the politeness of those who know that they are going into impervious paths and knowing that any false step could have serious consequences, that I am going to take part in this debate, and that this Parliament should have been joined as well. Fromm warned, in 1976, that democracy could resist the authoritarian threat only if it turned from democracy of passive spectators into democracy of active participants, in which, that is, the problems of the community are familiar to the individual and, for him, as important as the private matters themselves. For me, this is the sense of my participation, as a citizen, through this instrument that is the 5 Star Movement, in this experience of life in this House, without deceiving me that I have become, only for this reason, a legislator. As I said, the electoral law, although it cannot be counted, as other speakers have pointed out, among the constitutional laws, has, however, - because of its particularity of regular expression of popular sovereignty - a nature similar in importance to these. Others, in a deeper way than I, recalled, recalling Euclid's first axiom, that two things that are equal to one thing are equal to one another; a rule of reasoning, even if borrowed from mathematics, which is true because it is valid in itself, just as the principle of equality between citizens is valid in itself: that principle according to which all are equal before the law, and on which the form of government called democracy is founded and identified, as it developed from ancient Greece onward. Democracy, which is not chaos, is a bond between men sometimes sealed with the blood of those who have fought against dictators, as our grandparents and fathers have done; a bond through which, together, we can face the hardships of life and which contains within itself the government of the public thing, which realizes the principle of equality. It is by virtue of this form of government of the people and for the people and where every individual has equal dignity and deserves equal respect, that one is willing to endure sacrifices to ensure that the sense of democracy and the values it conveys for the generations to come are plotted. But what do we find of all this in this text that, in a hurry, you gave us? Nothing, indeed his denial. This bill had to be born paradoxically to heal a rift, the one caused by the decision of the Constitutional Court repeatedly cited, No. 1 of 2014, which tells us and told us of a worrying situation in the balance of powers drawn by the Constitution and the role played by Parliament. The Court ruled as follows: 15 and 16 of 2008 and n. 13 of 2012, foretold that judgment of unconstitutionality. Despite everything, in the face of the evidence of an abuse that has continued over time to the detriment of the Italian people, that same people from which the procedure of unconstitutionality started, the risk of persevering in error is high, in the light of the consideration of this legal provision. It is clear that that political system that has stratified over the last twenty years has not wanted to reflect adequately on the significance of the profiles outlined in sentence n. 1 of 2014 if it has decided to insist in a gamble that hides less and less its responsibilities in the eyes of all and that it risks to bring back the sophisticated system created by our Charter to the original unconstitutionality. We are, unfortunately, participating in a dangerous game of goose. To reduce our current problem of political representation to that relating to the criteria for selecting candidates to hold elected posts, by absorbing the current criticalities of representation to those of the choice of the electoral system is absolutely misleading; indeed, it seems to me that the impasse in the necessary launch of a new electoral law is a serious indicator of the crisis of representation. A crisis caused by the failure of political parties - as I mentioned earlier - as mediators between the system and representation of the interests of civil society. Emblematic and symptomatic of the forcing of the rules provided by our system is then the same process of formation of the law that is being discussed today. As is well known and as has also been mentioned in the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, electoral laws are among those which - according to the last paragraph of Article 72 of the Constitution - must necessarily be examined - in accordance with the normal procedure - first by the competent Commissions and then by the Chamber. It is not in the availability of the Regulations, nor of the bodies responsible for the organization of parliamentary work, the choice regarding the process of the law, in the cases expressly indicated in the above provision. Yet, in the course of this draft law (as in many of the years we have had to attend in this House), in the name of an alleged law of necessity - but perhaps it would be better to talk about miserable political opportunities - the examination by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not been completed; not even in this case. It is expected - and I still hope so - that the Presidents of the Chambers will be an embarrassment to respect the rules and not to make them complicit in their violation. These are the facts that tell you a lot about the crisis of our parliamentaryism because of the casualness with which they bend to misunderstandings and extraneous to our task as legislators, the parliamentary rules. In this context, it was argued, inter alia, by the proposers of the draft law in question, that the unconstitutionality of the majority award decided by the Court would be exceeded with the provision of a threshold for its award, giving the legislator the power to fix a ceiling on the premium mechanism. This is precisely on the basis of judgment No 1 of 2014, which states that there is no electoral system model imposed by the Constitutional Charter (the famous article 1 and the engraving that sovereignty is decided by the people). Moreover, the legitimacy of the distorting mechanisms of representation is raised in the light that the censorship of a thresholdless prize made by the Court is directed to facilitate the formation of an adequate parliamentary majority, in order to guarantee the stability of the government of the country and to make the decision-making process more rapid, - even today I have heard this false interpretation of the will of the Court - which is undoubtedly a constitutionally legitimate objective. Ergo, legitimates the unconstitutionality of the premium precisely the absence of the forecast of a threshold, the fixing of which is subject to the discretion of the legislator. This too is, to say the least, paradoxical. According to the Court, on the other hand, the electoral system, while constituting an expression of broad legislative discretion, is not free from control, being always censorable when it is manifestly unreasonable, not even determining the limits of reasonableness. Those objectives, that is, even if constitutionally legitimate, aimed at ensuring the stability of parliamentary majorities, cannot for themselves have as a consequence a compression of the representative function of the assembly, as well as of the equal right to vote, the principle of equality, excessive and such as to produce a profound alteration of the composition of democratic representation, on which the entire architecture of the existing constitutional order is based. Therefore, as far as I am concerned (and I do not think I am alone), it is clear that there is a multi-affhensive attitude to the conflict of the premium rule contained in this law with respect to the constitutional principles referred to in Articles 1, second paragraph (on popular sovereignty), 3 (on equality), 48, second paragraph (on freedom and equality of vote) and 67 (on national representation and on the absence of a bond of mandate). Now, do we still want to leave the task of assessing the reasonableness of the threshold for the majority prize to the subsequent scrutiny of the Constitutional Court? But, above all, is it really the identification of this threshold the problem most felt by the political system and of which this Government and this Parliament should bearers? To me - and not just to me, judging by the common view with much of the doctrine, more interested in the fate of this country than in legal formalism - it seems that there is no worse deafer than those who do not want to hear. The proposed draft law does not pursue that balance between legitimate additional objectives and constitutionally protected values, which was enshrined in judgment No. 1 of 2014. It is more interesting, in search of legal divinations, that the very evening of the elections you can know who will rule: this is the only purpose to which you are referring, and this is the same refrain that you hear repeated, like a broken record and regardless of the majorities that play it, by improvised legislators and increasingly aliens to the reasons of the Constitution. It recalls old speeches, made already in 1952, at the time of the law fraud, which, from the top of a capacity of sterile government in the results and made of announcements, after having brought us to the edge of the ravine of an endless economic crisis, now risk leading us to an irreversible crisis of our institutional system, due to the clear risks of unconstitutionality present in this electoral law, created in perfect logical continuity with the one just censored (and we heard it from the same father of Porcellum). It is a logic that even leads to a betrayal of the principles of democratic representation, with the risk of the provision of the very concept of democracy. Not only is there a perseverance in the search for the inclusion of a prize capable of achieving a majority of parliamentary seats, but there is also a system of barriers whose sole aim - it would be very difficult to say the opposite - is to restrict the access of minority forces. This, framed in the overall system envisaged, stands in stark contrast to the logic of pluralistic representation. I think I can say that we are already beyond the sphere of reasonableness. A reasonableness that goes even beyond the lack of common sense on the issue of so-called short blocked lists. From the Court's point of view in its judgment that the old electoral law is not comparable or with other systems characterized by lists blocked only for one part of the seats, nor with others characterized by electoral districts of territorially small size, in which the number of candidates to be elected is so small as to guarantee the effective knowledge of the same and with it the effectiveness of the choice and the freedom of the vote (like what happens in the case of the one-named colleges), we want to make it descend that there has been a liberation in the possibility of re-presenting the reasoning on the blocked lists, of a few candidates - we are told - and presented in electoral districts - is reiterated - of territorially small dimensions. That is why the alleged legitimacy of the proposed legislation should be saved. Nothing more false. We can say that the mountain of the importance of the objections that our guardian of our Charter made to the Porcellum gave birth to the little mouse of Italicum, a provincial electoral law that divided a state into small co-municipal districts but with short lists, but always partyally imposed. Yet the declaration of unconstitutionality was mainly determined by the fact that the Porcellum deprived the elector of every margin of choice of its representatives, a choice that is totally put back to the parties (and so should be this time), with a vote that was given exclusively to the list, excluding every faculty of the elector to affect the election of its representatives. An unconstitutionality determined by the fact that the representation relationship between voters and elected has altered. That was said in that sentence. A serious violation of the democratic principle, therefore, with clear reflections on the same freedom as the vote referred to in Article 48 of the Constitution. Now, allowed and not granted the possibility to believe that the short lists so formally structured guarantee the knowledge to the elector of the candidates (to want to follow you on this reasoning), in a proportional system that leads to synthesis the national distribution of the seats the electoral-elect relationship is still likely to fail. Once again, the selection of the political class to the Italian citizen, whose consent will be grabbed by the ruling class, well united in the parties, will try to determine the best way to arrange its pawns in servitude and clientele institutions, as well as the local authorities they manage. But it's not enough. To help the reproduction of the usual faces, those that citizens would never vote, if not obliged, as co-responsibility for the deterioration of the Italian political system, the multi-candidability comes to the rescue (which had been excluded in the first presentation to the House and then reinstated in the approval), to which was placed the graceful limit of only eight pluri-nomial colleges. On the other hand, self-referentiality is all in Italian politics. The extensors of this dubious legislative novelty were not touched by the Court's emphasis on discrimination between candidates of the same party for the reflection that it may have the option of opting for the multi-candidate for other, if multi-elected, districts on the limitation of the voter's freedom and voting rights. The latter, in fact, risks voting for a candidate only apparently recognizable (because inserted on a short list), while it could instead favor the election of a candidate completely unknown to him; on the contrary, the same elector would see his choice of vote on who should be elected in the hands of a multi-elected candidate. Where there is a disparity between competitors, it is in the system of barrier thresholds for access to the seats' share. This is irremediable alteration of the composition of democratic representation! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. MOLINARI (M5S). Yes, ma'am, I'll finish. After the judgment n. 1 of 2014 we can no longer trust on the procedural difficulties that had so far prevented the union of constitutionality on electoral laws and that have made to wait eight years for the declaration of unconstitutionality of a law that we all knew unconstitutional, as is also the one under consideration. After the adoption of a new electoral law, whatever it may be, it is easy to predict that it will be up to the Constitutional Court to say the last word again. There can now be no doubt that the path to the Council has been opened and that it will be quickly taken immediately after the adoption of a law however strongly contested. What is certain is that with the adoption of an electoral law at a time when it is still in perhaps the very construction of the order with the constitutional reform still at stake and still at stake the entire constitutional system will be in crisis: it would be good to realize, that we all did it and that we stopped because that line, that road we have taken goes towards chaos, that it is not democracy as we all would like to believe. Democracy is actually participation and it is citizens' presence in the choice of their representatives. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u95	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u98	RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, as everyone knows, a bridge opened on 23 December collapsed in Sicily after ten days. Today the president of ANAS, Dr. Ciucci, went to the places, doing yet another catwalk (to verify what?) and stating, moreover, with a very strong statement, that there has been a mistake and that the guilty will pay. In these hours the press reported the statements by the President of the Council and the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Wolves, who reported that they would take immediate action. Madam President, I am asking, and this is the understanding of my speech, that you should immediately take charge of calling at least the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport to answer this question. I will tell you that it is not the first case that occurs in Sicily; I have a list by memory, but I did not have the opportunity to deepen it: in 2009 a span collapses on the state road n. 626 that connects Catania to Caltagirone; on 2 February 2013 the bridge on the river Verdura collapses on the state road n. 115, and then I will return on this if it gives me the opportunity to intervene for a few minutes... president. Unfortunately, time is limited here. There will be an opportunity when the questions are answered. RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). I'll stick to the time, I'll be respectful. On July 7, 2014, another bridge collapses, the viaduct Petrulla. Today, by chance, the President of ANAS declares that they will begin as soon as possible (what?) And he's gonna do a race bench, but we still haven't figured out what kind of money he's with. Personally, I've done something more. On 9 September 2014 I denounced the ongoing work on the state road 640, Agrigento-Caltanissetta, however recording videos and taking photos, which I sent to the competent bodies, including ANAS, highlighting discrepancies. I'm not a technician capable of finding a job done well or badly. However, I have denounced the presence of bridges still under construction, bridges from time to time inaugurated and which are now almost inaccessible, because the valleys are disruptive and cannot be passed on them. Today I asked for the resignation of the president of ANAS and I think I did something good and right. In fact, he must respond not to the collapse of a work inaugurated on December 23 and closed on the 30 of the same month, but to all this list... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u99	Senator, go ahead. The subject is very important, but you have already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u100	RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). I'll try to hold on. I think, however, that I am giving some basic information. I will just say that, when I denounced these facts, I was told by the CMC building company, which is also building on Palermo-Agrigento, where the 23 December bridge collapsed, that I say irresponsible things to create alarms for propaganda purposes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you have to finish. You will have ample opportunity to speak when the questions are asked. RUVOLO (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). These statements will be discussed in other forums, not in Parliament. However, I wonder if it is still possible to maintain a leading picture of this level after all that has been done in Sicily, at least for this work. I don't want to talk about any more operas. And if the government really has declared that it wants to strike the guilty, start right there, by the president of ANAS and his closest collaborators. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u101	Senator Ruvolo, these are very serious facts and I believe that the Undersecretary for relations with Parliament will have the opportunity to call for a response from the Government and Minister Lupi on questions that will certainly have already been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u104	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, I would like to address you and ask you to take responsibility to inform Prime Minister Renzi of what some Italian citizens are asking. This is the appeal that family members of the victims of the Viareggio railway massacre make directly to him. Next June will trigger the prescription for the crime of manslaughter. We ask Renzi, as President of the Council and as a Tuscan citizen, to work to ensure that the crimes contested in the 2009 massacre process do not go on prescription. I remember the dead were 33 and 25 people injured. If the crime of manslaughter is prescribed, many roads wonder what their loved ones died of. Mr. Marco Piacentini lost his little children, Luca and Lorenzo, and his wife. The same was for six months hospitalized in tragic conditions and today we wonder, like many other people, if the explosions and fires of that cursed night of June 29 can be wiped out like this, with a sponge stroke and so on. It was the LPG gas that came out of the rift of one of the derailed cisterns that reached the houses and killed innocent people. This crime, in June, cannot go on prescription. In a civilized country this cannot and must not happen. There are 42 persons charged, including the managers of the State Railways Group. Mauro Moretti himself, former CEO, today we find himself rewarded as head of Finmeccanica, almost provocatively, in front of so much popular dismay. His former right-hand man, Michele Elia, also accused, is the current CEO of the State Railways. For crimes such as those of Viareggio there must be no closed eyes and ears closed. Prescription is not a solution: it thunders all citizenship. Mrs. Daniela Rombi, president of the association "Il mondo che Voglio", born from the meeting of the family members of the victims of the massacre, recalled what she called an unprecedented and truly shameful fact: this state has passed away from our trial, renouncing the constitution of civil part in exchange for a lot of money. This is their dignity. He left the victims alone and politically acquitted those responsible for this massacre of innocents. We all of the 5 Star Movement ask you, President, to report to Prime Minister Renzi on what is required: just justice. Silence will also be an answer and citizens will take note of it. As a citizen and as a person of the institutions I have a duty to stand on the side of the victims and I invite Prime Minister Renzi to attend the next commemoration, which on June 29 will be the sixth. Meanwhile, and until the end of the process started on 13 November 2013, the flag of Viareggio in the "Casina dei sommi" which preserves the traces of so many loved ones, will remain at half auction. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u107	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to make this speech first of all in order to call for the parliamentary question 3-01409, which concerns Jabil, a company in the Province of Caserta. My colleague, Mrs Moronese, who is here, almost every day reminds me to urge her to do so. It is one of the many companies in the micro-electronics sector in crisis. That's what they say, but in fact it turns out that the budgets are active. The same goes for Micron in Arzano: the budgets are active. So, if there's no recession, what is it? Italy is simply a sacrificial victim of an economic system that sees us as a high-cost nation. Then I wonder how many other times we have to urge our government to intervene. I am really tired of watching TV and hearing about electoral law and seeing a Premier who, instead of working, is in front of the computer to tweet and give messages. I'm really tired. There are jobs here. Let's take Micron: there are 120 highly qualified workers, including engineers, computer scientists, physicists and mathematicians. Where are these people going? Still abroad. We form them in Italy and spend money. Families spend money on their kids to get them to go where? Abroad. I'm really tired. The government must really do something about our industrial policy and stop being on Twitter, because it really doesn't make itself that political. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u108	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-369.ana.u109	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 8 January, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.06 p.m.
