ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,33 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2138, already approved by the House of Deputies, and related government information on the development of the crisis in the Middle East. I call the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the challenge facing Italy, Europe and the Middle East has no precedent, because we are faced with a non-state actor, Daesh, who controls a territory and huge financial resources, which uses religion for its terrorist purposes, which constitutes an external threat, but also an internal threat to our societies, in Europe, and which represents a particular challenge to our security systems, also for the presence of suicide attacks in the way Daesh strikes. So this is a new challenge. I have come a couple of hours from a summit of the Atlantic Alliance which has focused on this issue, namely how NATO can adapt its strategy to a hybrid, asymmetrical, non-state threat, but certainly no less insidious than the threats we have been accustomed to. The truth is that the glasses of the twentieth century are not enough to read a threat that has upset the borders of the last century, not only in Syria and Iraq, but potentially also in a wider region of the Middle East. To this challenge we must give a strategic and multi-level response; I believe that this must be the fundamental message for us Italy. We need a strategic response at different levels: a military response, a political-diplomatic response, a response on the cultural and social terrain, without cultivating the illusion of easy shortcuts or lightning wars, whose apparent victories have often translated in recent years into a long trail of ungovernable consequences. At the military level, recently the anti-Daesh coalition has achieved some significant results, in particular in the reconquest of Sinjar, which took place in particular thanks to the action of the peshmerga, armed and trained to a large extent by our country; always in Iraq, the regular forces are developing their offensive towards Ramadi and also in that region our forces are playing a fundamental role of training. In Syria, finally, the links between Mosul and Raqqa are cut off thanks to the action of the peshmerga, the actions towards Raqqa are multiplying. The representation of a reluctant or even absent Italy therefore fists with reality and above all I think it disproves the work of hundreds and hundreds of our fellow citizens in uniform, who are working in the anti-Daesh coalition with the consent and appreciation of much of the international community, and we owe to these fellow citizens the respect that their action deserves. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] Our work is crucial, particularly in Iraq. We will discuss any further commitments with the allies, but we are first of all aware that there is a need for an overall military strategy against financing in Daesh; Italy also has a leadership role in the coalition, culturally and humanitarianly. In two months' time, the next meeting of the coordination of the anti-Daesh coalition (the so-called small group) at the level of the Foreign and Defence Ministers will take place in Rome and will be an opportunity to develop the various aspects of this strategy. On a political-diplomatic level, I will concentrate my information on three of our working guidelines, which today seem to me to be a priority. The first is the relationship with Russia. At the end of September, when I spoke to the United Nations Security Council at a meeting on the Middle East and counter-terrorism, I said that Russia's involvement was indispensable in the face of the challenge of terrorism. In the next two months, this thesis, which was not a very popular thesis at the end of September, became a much more widely shared thesis species, of course, after the infamous attack on the city of Paris. Involving Russia does not mean ignoring differences and contradictions. We know that we cannot share many of Russia's targets in Syria; let alone ignore the seriousness of the incident between Russia itself and Turkey, our ally in NATO. Involving Russia means, however, recognizing the potential of joint work against Daesh. I would like to say even more. If we are convinced, as we are, of the dramatic and unprecedented nature of the threat against which we are operating, not to pose the problem of involving a country like Russia in the fight against this threat would also be irresponsible. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] For this reason, the Italian position remains convinced of the existence of this potential. For this reason, in these hours we are working to promote direct relations between Turkey and Russia, to contribute to a de-escalation and to avoid the repetition of serious incidents such as that which took place about ten days ago. I told Mr Çavuşoğlu this morning in Brussels. I will tell Sergei Lavrov tomorrow morning in Belgrade. We need direct contact between Russia and Turkey and, through this direct contact, a de-escalation of the tensions that continue to exist between these two countries. The second director of our policy and diplomatic action these weeks naturally concerns the Syrian crisis, which could be called today the mother of all crises. Thanks to the decisive commitment of the US Secretary of State and the decisive contribution of Sergei Lavrov, a window opened at the two ministerial summits in Vienna. We need to know it's a narrow road. We can't tell each other fairy tales. Also because it was agreed on the start of a transition process, but it has not yet been defined, in the context of this transition process, when the dictator Bashar al-Assad will have to leave power. It is clear that to imagine a sine permanence gave to the power of Bashar al-Assad would, in some way, absolve him of his tremendous responsibilities but, above all, it would mean opposing the Sunni universe and ultimately bringing water to Daesh's mill. So certainly, in the course of this transition process, Bashar al-Assad will have to leave power. I believe that on this point we can build a convergence, not only between the countries that have long been demanding it, but also with countries like Russia, which have a more prudent attitude on this. In any case, the process is finally under way. With the direction of our UN envoy, our de Mistura, we work these days to build the delegation of the anti-Assad forces, which will have to participate in the start of negotiations with the regime. Let us remember that this is not a theory, but it is written, in the Vienna agreements, that the start of this negotiation between Bashar al-Assad and the forces that oppose the regime leads to a ceasefire: the negotiation begins, the ceasefire begins. This is the agreement that has been established. It is important - I want to say this because the whole Senate is certainly aware of this and proud - that Italy is active in this process and again alongside the European Union among the four major European countries participating in the diplomatic path of the crisis today most important in the international diplomatic context. It is important that, despite the serious Russian-Turkish incident, a kind of Vienna 3 be brought together in the coming weeks; we owe it to what happened in Syria. When we talk about military actions and diplomatic balances, let us never forget that we are facing the most terrible humanitarian crisis of our time, with more than 100,000 deaths and millions of refugees. Ours, therefore, is not only a necessary political commitment, in some way it is also a moral imperative: finally find a way out of this Syrian nightmare that has provoked in the region all the consequences we know. The third and last director of our commitment to the Middle East in recent days concerns us more closely, as it concerns the Libyan crisis. You know that the dialogue between the parties is under way and that the proposal of a government of national agreement has been on the table for over a month. On this proposal, which - I repeat - has been on the table for over a month, is continuing to work, reaffirming and confirming it, the new UN envoy Martin Kobler. You also know that many countries, including of course Italy, have long expressed their willingness to contribute to the subsequent stabilisation of Libya. The question, however, is that we do not have much time and we do not want to give time to Daesh: this is the essential point of the Libyan crisis today. To this end, Italy is working to ensure that the international community gives a decisive boost, in the same spirit, if you like, that it has animated the meetings in Vienna, even if perhaps with a format not perfectly identical. The aim of this work is to bring together in Rome, on Sunday 13 December, a ministerial conference on Libya that brings together not only the major global players, but also the main countries in the region. I believe that, in the light of the contacts we have had these days (tomorrow it will also be an opportunity to talk to the Russian Foreign Minister), this is an objective within our reach and that can give a decisive boost to the entire Libyan path. I want it to be clear: we certainly do not want to replace the Libyan parties, because they are the ones who have to make the arrangements. We want to remove the external obstacles that so far have hindered the possibility of this understanding and build a frame and, as we say in jargon, a road map that leads to the conclusion of this understanding in times and with certain mechanisms. This is possible and urgent. This is an ambitious objective, but - I repeat - possible of the summit that we are organising for 13 December next in Rome. So I also renew from here, from the Senate Chamber, the appeal that we are sending to the Libyan parties and to the various regional and international partners these days. We can still avoid the complete disintegration of the country and Daesh's advance, which is consolidating especially in the area around Sirte. We can do this with a strong diplomatic action, with an agreement between the parties, with a commitment to the subsequent stabilisation alongside the new Government of national agreement. I believe that this objective is possible and if we can achieve it it would be an invaluable contribution, not only to start a solution to one of the most difficult crises of recent years in the Middle East but also to make a contribution to a more general stabilisation. That is why Italy is committed, at every level, to the success of this operation and I hope that Parliament and the whole country will find themselves in this objective and in this perspective. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) Groups), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u6	Mr President, Minister, we Conservatives and Reformists are united in this field as a nation, so we would never dream of creating obstacles or problems in relation to such sensitive and important issues. You, Minister, made an excursus about all Italian presences in the world including missions abroad. Wanting to count all our men on a mission abroad, there would be hundreds of perhaps thousands of people, for example in Lebanon. What is the overall result? What is the consideration that the so-called powers, Western and non-Western, reserve to Italy? That doesn't seem like much. Maybe they don't think much of us. It is to you the merit of having internationalized the problem of the Maròs, which was not such before, but I do not think that an answer has yet arrived in this regard either from NATO or from the various other countries, Western and not, with respect to this problem for which, let us be quietly and sincerely, we are mortified as a nation, beyond the drama of our two military. By the way, more and more is being said the truth that it was certainly not them who shot. In the last part of your speech, Minister, you spoke about Libya. It is right that there is an agreement between the parties because it is the Libyans, before us, who have to decide their destiny, but there is a serious problem: one of the three parties is practically the Daesh who, until now, has prevented any kind of agreement, because they are rather extremist Islamists too. So it becomes difficult to be calm and serene than Daesh or ISIS (I prefer to define these terrorists as belonging to ISIS, because by constantly changing names we confuse people). ISIS has now taken over that area. For a long time, as I said modestly a couple of months ago in another speech, the Libyan problem first of all is our problem, it is an Italian problem which I do not think our allies have been very sensitive. How many years has the problem of immigration in Italy been underestimated? How many years has Europe been looking at us badly? Today, however, we run to give Turkey three billion and we will give more if they enter the EU; nothing particular, even if Turkey must always clarify what its actual role is. We must understand it with serenity, we must understand it as the duty; I am the last, I pose only the problem because I would like to draw attention to it. What I ask you, and that I ask the Government and everyone with serenity, being the Libyan problem essentially ours, is to understand if the mission that we still lead consists only in going to pick up migrants to transport them; a wonderful and noble gesture because we save human lives even if we often bring terrorists and we know it. But - Holy Virgin - is it ever possible that we are not free, as an Italian force, involved with others, to prevent the boats from leaving there? Is it ever possible? If we don't do this, we'll never solve the problem. We all know that but we continue to do so and we have already said so in a previous debate on missions: it is money thrown into the wind that does not solve the problem. More concrete action is required of the Italian Government. I understand caution, but real responsibility is needed. We have already suffered, years ago, the so-called Arab Springs and we have endured them because forced, as Italy, from everyone and from that disaster comes everything that we are living today. It is not possible or imaginable that Italy does not become a protagonist and does not continue to raise its voice, because this disaster belongs little to Italy and to any of its governments, but rather belongs to the countries of NATO and to the United States itself. Perhaps, without that so-called spring, these tragedies would not have been there. Everyone has shown that they do not know the reality of the Arab countries and that it is difficult to immediately establish a democracy in those cultures. We had the arrogance to do that and where did we succeed? In Tunisia and Morocco, countries of French-speaking influence, perhaps in Algeria; but it is difficult in other parts, where it would take decades to assert democracy. In this context, I ask for more decisive action from the Government. We must affirm what is ours within a coalition. Libya is our own problem; we are paying for it and we will pay for it even more, if we do not prevent the whole part around Sirte, as all international observers now say. What are we waiting for? That they'll do us more damage? You might ask me: what do you want, World War? No, I want our action firm and serious. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Tarquinio. Tarquinio (CoR). Our allies should respond to us and they should tell us if they are at our side, as we try to be at our side, even if with a bit of hesitation, compared to the use of something else. I am afraid that, in order to be flattened over the United States, we are going to isolate ourselves from European countries; this is the true speech. A more determined and true balance and policy are needed, understanding that in Syria the problem is also ours, but Libya is the central problem that belongs to us. Hence the call for more decisive action, even at the risk of losing the lives of Italian soldiers. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u7	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tremonti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u8	Mr President, Senators, Minister, thank you for your important speech. However, I would like to extend the order of considerations, from effects to causes, from what we are doing today to why all this has happened and is happening. Political action, if one does not want it erratic and random (and certainly cannot be so in foreign policy), must and can be guided above all by history and reason, because history teaches us to avoid the mistakes of the past, while reason guides us in avoiding future mistakes. So I start right from the first, that is from the story. Just forty years ago in Europe democracy was not the rule, but it was the exception, being outside Greece, Portugal, Spain, half Germany and all the East. It is therefore history, and indeed our history, that teaches us that democracy is a complex process and not an instant product. A similar mistake was made decades ago, when the decolonization of Africa began, as was done by France, the United Kingdom and Belgium. Immediately after the end of the colonies, immediate and free elections took place, based on the one-man-one method of voting. Just after the first application of the method came out not one man one vote, but ounces, that is only once and only: I won, no more elections. Only now, after decades, do we see in that continent the first real advances on the path of democracy. Ignoring this first lesson, too many people in the West thought that democracy was like McDonald's, an elementary product that can be exported, even in the very complex quadrant of the Mediterranean and the Middle East. Often it has been done in a disinterested form, with prevailing benevolent purposes: the generous offering of our model to those relatively backward peoples. But the export was made and also forced by wars and the media. History and reasons indicated and still indicate today as more appropriate longer times and wiser methods. In fact, no one, not even the West, has a central switch system: good or bad, inside or outside, if you enter the club, you automatically become better. In fact, each country has its own homeland and the word homeland comes from father: the land where your parents' bones rest. By riding globalization, trying to export, even by force, democracy, trying to export it suddenly to other and different countries, we forced their history and their traditions. Much of what today feeds the barbarity that invests us, much of this, derives, by reaction, also from the forced imposition, in those countries, of our different models and our different interests. I would like to conclude by talking about two current cases, Turkey and Russia. The case of Turkey: the entry of Turkey into the European Union, not only the entry into the economic area of the market, but also the entry into the political area of Europe, has been envisaged in the past years - but it is still expected today. This is how a truly ingenious case of political syncretism is realized: et, et. The European Union is today founded on the economy, but also on values, as they are said and enshrined by our Court of Justice. Well, do you really think you can export these values, all the heritage (you say) of postmodern values, in a country that, under its right, is Muslim? A certain amount of dementia helps in this process. The case of Russia. Once it was said that, as a permanent one, the nations do not have allies, but interests. Also for this reason, good foreign policy strategies are based on balanced paradigms in their relativity and always foreign policy, if it is good, is the field of election of Realpolitik. I would like to point out that Russia's geography extends over about eleven time zones; that Russia's history certainly contains Anna Zahina, but also Genghis Khan. I would like to point out that if Russia is not yet a perfect democracy, it is no longer the Soviet Union. Yet, if it is true that history never repeats itself for perfect and absolute identities, I would like to note that in the drama of the war Roosevelt and Churchill did not hesitate to make an alliance with Stalin and that they formalized it in two, still today, current places of history: first in Tehran and then in Yalta. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bellot]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u9	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u10	Mr President, first of all I would like to inform you that I shall have to speak, in a single block, both in response to the Minister and for the explanation of vote, having combined the two things and having to make a composite speech. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about Daesh or ISIS, we say the same thing: Daesh is the Arabic acronym of ISIS. But already speaking of the Islamic State, we play exactly the game of our enemies: let us make sure that there is an Islamic State. If we assume that there is an Islamic State, all Muslims in the world will be able to convince themselves that there is an Islamic State and, for their own faith and for their own sacred scriptures, they will be called to defend their own State. Colleagues, we have to call it an abusive territory occupied by terrorists. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Enough with the acronyms that mean nothing but that send very dangerous messages! When you have to fight a monster, Minister, you don't go to get the tentacles, but you have to take the head. We have ever closer tentacles, like Libya, on the other side of the Mediterranean, in front of us: there we have great interests, also economic and energy supply. Since we want to wage an economic war with Russia, from which we import 50% of our energy needs, it would be foolish to lose another important slice, which will probably risk falling into the hands of these terrorists. These are terrorists who have come to Europe with guilt. For years the League has continued to be careful because, confused among the refugees, anyone can arrive in this country, and the data have given us - alas - regrettably right, because two of the terrorists involved in the French attacks have arrived precisely with the ships, mixed with the refugees. We kept asking for a naval blockade, not just to import poor people, but to ensure the safety of our country. Today we must ask one more thing, Minister: the blockade of frontiers. We must know who enters our home, what to do, and who goes out; we cannot have revolving doors at this contingent moment. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] I do not know why Italy, like the whole of the European Union, has been subjected to American guidelines to sanction Russia at this very delicate time. It is a sanction that we can say straight for interests outside the interests of our country. With sanctions for the first time a sanctioning country is seen to be sanctioned, because Italy risks, or is risking, 4 billion per year of gross domestic product for sanctions against Russia, which is then unique in the field to fight terrorists, to protect all Europe that has responded with sanctions against that country. Ours is subdiction to the United States of America, that the only thing they could do in that territory was arm the rebels and form militias, even if at the first clash those militias flew away and all the weapons provided and the funding ended up in the hands of the cutthroat terrorists. The Afghan model has been repeated exactly where, after supporting and armed the Taliban, we with the Americans and with all the Western troops have spent fourteen years of war to drive back the Taliban and terrorists of that area, previously supported also on that occasion by the United States of America. From you, Minister, we would like some clarification. How do we deal with Turkey? A Turkey that shoots down an airplane that fights terrorists for having flew over its sovereign airspace for seventeen seconds. Apparently, even if in seventeen seconds there is not even the alarm needed to take off interceptor planes; those planes already knew what they had to do. A Turkey which, apparently, because the news is now well established, is buying oil from terrorists and, even worse, we too risk having bought it - we do not know whether consciously or unknowingly - from the Turks: we are all feeding the terrorists we say we want to fight. Minister, we would like some clarification from you on these matters. Let me turn to the second part of my speech. We, who are part of NATO, realize what danger we are facing in the war (in this case a cold war) against Russia? After confiscating Croatia and Albania, pressure is being put on Montenegro to join NATO, making it feel more and more surrounded and increasingly cornered by Russia. Do we think this is a political responsibility that can take a government? With regard to Turkey, what measures are we going to take, Minister?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u11	Divine Senator, the explanation of vote will take place in due course, because we are now in the debate on the Minister's information. If you give me the floor later, I will speak again, but I understood that I could not have two speeches. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Unfortunately, the timing of the discussion has been set in a different way, so the discussion on the information is now under way and then we will proceed to the examination of the decree-law. DIVINE (LN-Aut). If you give me the floor later, that's fine. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Amoruso is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u12	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the Middle East, but also in North Africa, is now dramatic. The phenomenon of ISIS, the political instability and the uncertainties generated by the international dynamics that are developing around that area, open before us a scenario difficult to decipher. Unfortunately, what we are fighting is an unconventional war. As you rightly said today, Minister, it is an unprecedented war, a new challenge. We wish to reflect on the fact that this House is engaged in the examination of the decree-law on missions abroad: it impresses us, on the one hand, to see that Italy (together with other States) continues and reaffirms its commitment to stabilisation and peace-keeping in many areas of the world, and, on the other hand, to note that, while that important and positive commitment continues, Europe and the United States have made and continue to make mistakes, one step from home, in the Middle East and in the Mediterranean; mistakes that are also among the causes, in our opinion, of what is happening today. Let us think of the atavic Israeli-Palestinian crisis, which certainly originates and still feeds - in a spiral apparently without a possible solution - into a complex political, economic and cultural situation, but which, equally certainly, Western policies have not helped to improve. Israel's reaction to freeze cooperation with the European Union on the peace process, after the decision to introduce the obligation to label products from the colonies of the occupied territories, says a lot. But even more - to come to the specifics of the Middle Eastern crises that today concern the whole international community - I am thinking of the mistakes that have been made in Libya and that are being made in Syria. In Libya the fall of Gaddafi has been substantially supported, and today that country - which is in a strategic position for migratory flows and which plays an extraordinarily important role in energy supplies - lives in chaos. From having a certain questionable and certainly non-democratic government (that of Gaddafi), Libya has found itself having two governments: one recognized by the international community and the other not, but both very weak and unable to guide at least the territories under their control. The fall of Gaddafi should have given democracy to Libya and probably allow, in the designs especially of the United States, under the pressure of France, the affirmation of a new government considered fully reliable. Instead, Libya is without a sure guide; it is the basis for the penetration of ISIS into North Africa and is the platform of tragic immigration into the Mediterranean. It is these days the great danger of ISIS in Sirte, 450 kilometers from our coasts. 3,000 foreign fighters are already operating in this area. The French Premier has declared that Libya will be the main dossier of the coming months, and the Italian Government does well to promote Rome to host an event on Libya, on the model of Vienna for Syria. Another mistake is being made in Syria, whose case brings us back to Iraq. In Syria, in fact, priority has been given and continues to be given not to the real problem, namely the presence of terrorism and the Islamic State, but to the desired fall of Assad. The Syrian regime is not a model, nor can it ever be (as is the case, however, for dozens of regimes in power around the world), but - as with Libya - we must reflect on alternatives in the field, and have a clear strategy. We have no doubt that international action in Syria should focus primarily on the destruction of ISIS, instead of thinking of Assad, which is not the main concern today. Even in the last meetings in Paris, Obama continues to reaffirm the differences about Assad that exist with Russia, and that there will be no end to the war as long as he is in power. You are right, Minister, to remind us that dialogue and relations with Russia are essential in order to manage the Syrian crisis, while with the United Nations we are working to resume negotiations with Syria. We avoid the repetition of a second Libya, and again, looking at what has happened in the last twenty years in another geographical quadrant always close to Italy, we avoid the repetition of a new Serbia. It is no coincidence that the largest ISIS recruitment and training centre in Europe is in Kosovo today. The disintegration of Syria could have dramatic effects in all respects. Let us hope that an example at the positive moment, namely that of Egypt, will guide the international community. Let us remember that Egypt, after the fall of Mubarak, has lived on the edge of the razor of political, social and economic implosion. Today Egypt, albeit with difficulty, is stabilizing under the leadership of General Al-Sisi. In this regard, we acknowledge to the Renzi Government the merit of having understood, among the first in Europe, the need to support it. Today's Egyptian Government is a factor of stability and security, which is precisely what is lacking, dramatically, in Libya and Syria, but that is exactly what the international community - we hope with an increasingly strong Italian role - must contribute to finding. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Napolitano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing my conviction that we are in agreement with the general guidelines that Mr Gentiloni has given us here, particularly as regards the multiplicity of levels, plans and dimensions to which our strategy must be inspired in the aftermath of the terrorist offensive which has been so bloody beaten down on Paris. It is right to say that we must pursue, if necessary, military action that is not separated from political-diplomatic action and a far-sighted cultural initiative, especially towards Muslim communities living in our country and that we must be careful not to confuse ourselves with the ruthless agents of terrorism led by the so-called Islamic State. However, I would not want us to call it self-described, thinking of solving a complex problem, which is precisely that of the attempt of Islamic fundamentalism to give itself dimensions of State (ISIS or IS, Islamic State). In particular, I would also like to say that my remarks - Mr Gentiloni will understand, as I understand him - will perhaps be inspired by less diplomatic caution. Mine today is a lesser institutional display and perhaps I can allow myself some more frankness about some passages. It is said that the mistakes of the mission in Libya must be avoided. You will remember that we discussed this at the beginning of February of this year in a broad debate and I then allowed myself to note that the serious mistake consisted of a sort of disengagement of a large part of the international community in the post-military phase and the fall of Colonel Gaddafi. Not that we did not see the need for a constructive approach to the Government of a Libya freed from the dictatorship of Colonel Gaddafi, but there was in reality - I repeat - a sort of real disengagement of a large part of the international community. Having said that, I see that there is a temptation to give summary judgements on the mission of March 2011 and on Italy's participation in that mission on the basis of Security Council Resolution No 1973, preceded by Resolution No 1970, which we can define as final. These are documents that someone may have lost their memory of. The Italian participation was validated by a vote of Parliament, including a majority and a minority. On this too, it seems to me that there is a need for caution on the part of everyone. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] In other words, we must also be careful to spare ourselves jokes that can be a source of misunderstanding. Very well, then, the initiative that the Minister announced, which I understand to be consecutive at the Euro-Mediterranean Conference, which will open on the initiative of the Government and under the direction of the Institute for International Political Studies (ISPI), on 10 December. We tend with all our strength to give an outlet to the many attempts that have developed in the course - we can say this now - of these years and look at a wider horizon, which is now the challenge launched by Islamic fundamentalist terrorism, against civilization, against the common sentiments of humanity and, in particular, against the West and against Europe. It seems to me that there are some very sensitive and very critical points, of course. At the NATO summit - referred to by Mr Gentiloni - I think we should be very careful, because it is not possible for some countries to think that they can ask NATO for solidarity after creating problems with NATO, because this is the case with our partner in the Atlantic Alliance, the Turkish Government. Having certainly created a very serious problem at this stage, not only to NATO, but to the international community. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Mixed]] There is an appeal for solidarity, which seems to me frankly a little impudent and too convenient: I therefore think that on this side we must be very careful. In the same way, I believe that we must be rather careful in negotiating with Turkey a renewed and increased commitment to the refugee emergency, for various reasons. I have listened carefully to Senator Tremonti, although I will not go into the considerations of geopolitical philosophy, which he has illustrated here. Mr Tremonti will recall that it cannot be said that there has not been serious discussion of all the reasons for Turkey's approach to or entry into the European Union. It has been discussed for years, because Turkey's first questions or steps to join the European Union, in the wake of governments, date back to many years ago. When it was then decided to open negotiations - which were open-handed, that is, open to various possible outlets, both at the entry of Turkey fully as a member of the European Union, and at some form of special association, particularly strict and rich in content and dignity for that great country - a great deal had been discussed, but, after having decided to open that negotiation, with a stroke - it is to say: perhaps nothing was written or signed - it was decided to deny the signature, which had certainly been put at the bottom of the unanimous decision of the European Council to open negotiations with Turkey. This negotiation was opened at a time when autocratic tendencies, which we see today in full development, were far less pronounced and where there was a distinction between the roles of Head of Government and Head of State, which guaranteed a balanced role. I went on a state visit to Ankara and met both Prime Minister Erdogan and the very far-sighted and moderate then President of the Turkish Republic, Gül, who was then sick and abandoned the camp, leaving - let's say - free ground for unification in the only person of Prime Minister Erdogan also of the functions of Head of State. Well, today it is much more difficult than it was then to continue the negotiations and carry it forward with all the necessary cares. That previous commitment has been brutally torn apart. Sometimes I say, in a way that is not paradoxical because it is the reality, that a few years ago in Turkish land I heard myself say things in Latin as they were, because in Latin I was repeated by any of my interlocutors pacta sunt servanda. It was a small sidekick, but it had a weight, because on that frustration with regard to the backward march of some of our allies who imposed the freezing of the negotiations, Turkey, or Prime Minister Erdogan, has built a lot of a position translated then into repressive tendencies within and I would say quite adventurous at international level. I therefore believe that we certainly need to take account of the role Turkey is playing and above all can play in relation to the refugee emergency, not closing our eyes to the fact that we have had for a long time (and I do not do matters of one Italian Government or another) relations with Colonel Gaddafi, who perhaps cleared the departures for Europe, but did so by keeping in authentic lagers, in contempt of all human rights, the masses of desperate people coming from the Sahel or other particularly unfortunate areas of Africa. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Orellana]] I therefore believe that we need to be very careful and I do not know whether we have gone a little further at the European summit with Turkey a few days ago. I hope that is not the case. I wanted to make these comments, Mr Gentiloni, in a spirit of full adherence to the guidelines you have set out, with a wish for the success of those initiatives, but also with some greater attention to aspects which cannot be treated without proper weight and firmness. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE ePD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u14	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u15	Mr President, I will make a few comments, given the limited time available, although the Minister's report deserves very significant in-depth consideration, and I will inevitably speak in terms of titles. Minister, I would like to make a premise that concerns the debate on your information today and the debate on the international missions that we will be carrying out afterwards. It's just like there's some kind of discrasia, if I can use this word. I did not have any problems in pointing out, despite the opposition, the correct approach - in my opinion - that the Italian Government has had over the last few days, following the dramatic attacks in Paris and even those in Beirut and the killing of the Russian plane a few days before. It is a wise and prudent defined line that certainly has an element of goodness. I share his position when he says that we need a strategic plan first of all with respect to the idea of how Daesh is defeated today and how we avoid repeating the mistakes of the past. However, discrasia lies in the fact that, when we discuss missions in half an hour, we will do so in the usual ritual way followed in the last two years. In other words, we will discuss missions all together, without taking a proper assessment of what has happened over the past fifteen years and, therefore, we will not seriously discuss how to avoid the mistakes of the past. Everything can be claimed in this House. You can also claim the mission in Libya and say that there were reasons to do so. However, Minister, there is a fundamental point on which we must ask ourselves a collective question, which is not just about the mission in Libya, but about what has happened since 2001 in the global political scenario. The basic question we have to ask ourselves is: has terrorism increased or has it decreased since 2001? The various wars that have been waged, not simply in Libya but also in Afghanistan and Iraq, have stabilized those countries of the world, or have made the political scenario even more unstable, inevitably favouring those elements that then in the following years have been defined around the so-called policy of terror? I believe that we cannot fail to make this reflection, especially if we want to imagine today some instruments that allow us to fight Daesh effectively. It has been said - and I agree - that the solution is not to make new wars, for the reason I said earlier. On the other hand, much work will have to be done on what instruments can be imagined in order to build a sort of embargo against Daesh: to strike oil and arms trade; to call the Sunni monarchies of the Gulf to their responsibilities, often complicit in the past years (primarily Kuwait and Saudi Arabia); to involve that Shiite world which, over the past years, perhaps too hastily, has been considered simply the axis of evil and today, instead, we realize that, around Iran and Hezbollah himself in Lebanon, can be something more than an interlocutor. In short, we will have to put in place a foreign policy, which is exactly what - in my opinion - has been missing for too long. I would like to make just one further reflection on the three guidelines you yourself spoke of: relations with Russia - I share the need to put important strategic and diplomatic work into place - the Syrian crisis and the Libyan crisis. There is, however, a great absentee in your report, and let me say so. And this great absentee, which President Napolitano mentioned in some way now, is the Turkish question, which is not simply an appendage of the issue we are discussing today, namely the Russian crisis. And it is not only because a plane has been shot down and it is still unclear whether it has been an accident or not and what responsibilities there are, but also because there is a removal that is no longer bearable, even within this House. And this removal, Minister, is called the Kurdish question. It is no longer conceivable to allow Turkey to support NATO bombings in the morning and in the evening, instead of hitting Daesh, to hit the Kurdish posts, the PKK, and to put in place - as has also been done over the last few months - a real tension strategy, just as there has been in Turkey, even before, in the electoral transition. This is too serious a point to be omitted from this debate. I really don't think we can close our eyes to what is happening, even on the connections between Turkish intelligence and groups such as Daesh and al-Nusra, funded and supported in an anti-curda function. And we can't afford to do that right now. In these hours, in Diyarbakir in Kurdistan an entire people is mourning the political crime - as the leader of the HDP Selahattin Demirtas rightly called it - which was consumed a few days ago. And I'm talking about the death of lawyer Tahir Elci, who was the victim of a political crime. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD and M5S]] who calls the free and democratic world, the same one who asks the Kurds to be the main outpost, even warrior, against Daesh. Well, the free and democratic world cannot escape this task. We have a moral duty to intervene deeply on this ground, and not only because we need it to defeat Daesh, but also because we can no longer postpone this issue. A year ago, at the end of November, the Senate of the Republic unanimously approved an agenda in which it said things similar to what I am saying tonight. And that agenda also said that, perhaps, still considering the PKK, committed on the ground to fighting Daesh, as a terrorist organization, is a no longer tolerable point of this political affair. Minister, we must do more to bring about a path of peace and negotiation, and many of the discussions we are holding this evening also go through this axis. I do not have the time, of course, to talk about another great issue, which also deserves a deepening, namely the Israeli-Palestinian one. I'll do it at another location. I believe, however, that this should be the foreign policy approach of our country. Otherwise, there is a risk of a debate where there can be a certain discrasia: prudence and wisdom on the one hand and, on the other, the inability to put in place a political line capable, for once, of actually playing a role and also of giving positive results. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Orellana]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u16	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u17	Mr President, sometimes after the speeches by the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the President-in-Office of the Council on international policy, there is a feeling that a part of this House or of the parties is disappointed because they expect special effects that are never there. On the other hand, I believe that foreign policy is not built on special effects, as it is a more serious, laborious and rigorous work that requires constancy and, above all, a great ability to have strong nerves and an overall view of the situation. Minister Gentiloni, I sincerely believe that we are facing unprecedented challenges. The sort of caliphate that is creating a kind of new geopolitical platform, that occupies a territory overcoming the old statualities, taking possession of natural resources (water, oil and archaeological finds) and spreading drugs, represents a challenge that has nothing more to do with that of traditional terrorism to which we are accustomed. Moreover, this geopolitical platform occupies a territory but, on the basis of a higher call, it is ready to connect with all the realities that in other territories are preparing for membership with ISIS. This happens in Sinai, among the terrorists of al-Shaabab and Boko Haram and in all new areas. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of Syria is closely linked to that of Libya: the challenge is the same and, alternatively, these two issues are closely linked. It is right that Italy should reserve itself a leading role, first and foremost in the context of the very high international commitments that our country has. We are in fact present in Afghanistan, Lebanon and the Balkans, with the instructors and also with a significant contingent among the Kurds. Around the corner, however, there is also today the issue of Libya, which, due to its affiliation to the Daesh (for now still modest, but potential), we must absolutely monitor in a leadership role and with great attention. It is very good to organize conferences and, moreover, I very much appreciate the attempt of the Institute for International Political Studies (ISPI) to build in Italy a serious laboratory on international politics with important interlocutions. We must reserve this role for Libya and no one can take it from us, because we have it objectively. Geography is that and you don't change. However, we must bear in mind that the problems are also related to the challenge that the messengers of death bring us. The so-called foreign fighters start, in fact, from Syria, but also from Libya and - I must say unfortunately - from many neighbouring countries that, not by chance, have become the destination of the main terrorist attacks (for example, Tunisia comes to mind immediately). Therefore, we must have such a role and pay great attention to this dossier. The Government is right to carry out mediation between the parties in Libya, even if it does not report it every time in the Assembly, as it should be. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, do not forget that there are foreign fighters and terrorist states, but also wars by proxy. If to date no government has settled in Libya, it is because opposing forces from Qatar to Turkey, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, Egypt and Saudi Arabia push the dispute between the parties instead of resolving it. We hope that today a new season has begun and that they too realize that they are joking with fire. It is true that the challenge of the caliphate is directed towards us, towards the West, but, if you look deeper, it is addressed in particular to the Islamic world and - I go even deeper - to the Sunni world. While the Shiites are out of this dynamic because they have their very clear references, from Hezbollah in Lebanon to Iran, to Assad (from a certain point of view the Alawites are still connected to the Shiite world), this caliphate aims to overthrow the traditional ruling classes of the Sunni world. Who thought, perhaps giving them some money or accepting oil at a cost, to keep them good by keeping them away from their borders, today in turn is the target of terrorist attacks that aim to destabilise. The case of Saudi Arabia is emblematic. I don't want your answer, Minister, and I don't want to embarrass you. Of course, reading "Il Sole 24 Ore" and the report, published on yesterday's issue, related to the various traffics, seems that perhaps the international community should do some deepening. There has been a very serious incident in the skies of Turkey, which has seen the shooting down of an aircraft. I must say that perhaps, sometimes, good can come from evil. It is clear that such an event is an evil and I fully agree with what President Napolitano said, because those who cause the problem cannot invoke solidarity retroactively. We are friends of Turkey and want to deepen our relations with Turkey and we also think that Europe has some responsibility for too much. The doors to Turkey cannot be opened and closed intermittently and then surprised if it wants to create an Ottoman neo-Empire, being the leader of a part of the Islamic world. Having said that, why can good be born out of evil? It became clear that our government is right when it says that, without a strategy, we don't know what we're talking about. Ground intervention and bombing? But to do what? If we are not clear on the strategy and the objectives and in this coalition there are still dozens of countries that each think something different, we cannot be surprised if ISIS prospers: 250 oil wells and not one has been bombed; thousands of trucks do black trade and traffic and not one has been bombed. We should have some problems, too. [[Applause from Senator Ginetti]] So, if this is the reality, the Italian Government is right to show a leadership of our foreign policy firm, serene, severe but without warring out of place. The ideas need to be clarified. The consideration of Russia is absolutely right: Russia must be associated with the fight against terrorism. The hundreds of foreign fighters in northern Afghanistan come from Chechnya and the Russian Republics. Well, we must overcome the nostalgia of the Cold War, which too often occurs in Europe. [[Applause from the AP Groups (NCD-UDC), PD and Senators De Cristofaro and Orellana]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u19	Mr President, Minister, there has been talk of a strategy and that is right. To have a strategy, however, you have to have a compass, something that you drive in the path you want to take. And this, Minister, we of the Five Star Movement frankly do not yet see it. How do you talk about strategy, anti-Daesh alliance when the members of this supposed alliance shoot themselves, as happened between the Turks and the Russians, or do business with the Daesh? You see, all of this makes it clear that there is one fundamental thing missing for a strategy: there is no clarity between the parties involved and the objectives. Mr Minister, when you say that the Assad regime must be overcome because it is not democratic and because it has repressed opposition, we are concerned, because we do not feel that this language is suitable for dealing with the crisis. If we were to use this measuring meter, how should we evaluate, then, the countries of the Persian Gulf, the Saudi monarchies that are supporting ISIS? In comparison, Syria, before the civil war, really looked like a playground. In Syria there was the largest Christian community in the Middle East, who lived in peace and protection, Minister: in peace and protection. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] We must keep such things in mind when we talk about this scenario, before we fall into it. It has been said that this is a modern scenario. But this scenario, certainly modern, has ancient features, Minister: it resembles the scenario of the beginning of the twentieth century, the scenario of the Balkan wars of all against all, of alliances that lasted the space of a week and then dragged the entire planet into the disaster, just because first you hit - as has been said well - and then you ask NATO solidarity, as Turkey did. Then be careful, Minister, we must bear in mind that the first thing we must avoid is to drag the planet into a great fire. Then the Rome Conference is fine, because we must give the floor to politics and remove our hands from arms and fingers from the trigger, Minister. And I am referring to all the parties involved, none excluded, because the fingers on the trigger are equally dangerous; the shooter does damage, kills people and drags people into war. We must avoid one thing: we must avoid ending the sleepwalks that Christopher Clark described in his book, which many of you certainly have in mind. And, in order not to be blind and advance like the blind in the dark, we must understand that the fight for those who want chaos is done by cutting at the roots the sources of chaos, which are economic interests, Minister. When someone says Italy is absent, I start to worry. This is what I have in hand, Minister, and it is the report on the authorized and carried out operations for the control of export, import and transit of weapons materials. You see, Minister, we are unfortunately not absent, but we are very much present in that scenario. 45% of our arms exports go to those countries and monarchies in the Gulf of Arabia that are fomenting the war. Probably most of the guns fired in that scenario, at least the light ones, come from our country. So when we say that first of all we have to stop trafficking, we have to be aware that the first is oil and the second is weapons, Minister. We would like international action focused on this. Illegal trafficking in oil and weapons must be stopped. Only in this way can we seek a dialogue and close with this war. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Tremonti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u20	Senator Alicata is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u21	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Gentiloni for his timely information. There is no doubt that today we are living in a scenario of conflict, which is unfortunately aggravated by the current crisis between Turkey and Russia. However, your words, Minister, convince us once again of how weak the foreign policy of this Government is, starting with a country like Libya, in whose crisis we should have played a naturally central role, and not only from the Conference on 13 December, as you announced. This is also because we had received an unofficial mandate from her approval of the time, Mrs Hillary Clinton, to deal specifically with the Libyan issue. Nothing, however, this Government has been able to conceive, if in recent days even France, the main one responsible for the Libyan disorder, has felt in right to give advice on the subject also to our Premier. In the meantime, ISIS is rampant, while from the Italian Government there are verbal contortions, such as: we participate in the coalition, but in our own way; we are at the forefront, but not at war. All this to avoid calling things by their name and assuming responsibilities that you do not have the courage to take. As a matter of fact, our country has carved itself out a secondary role compared to the allies, hoping in this way to remain immune from the risk of terrorism, delegate to others to take the chestnuts out of the fire. We cannot fail to note, then, Minister, the lightness of the Western Chancellors, since the war in Iraq, which led to the destruction of secular regimes with the ludicrous claim to bring about democracy, only for this reason. The time has come, before it is too late, for this Government to commit itself in practice so that, first of all, the channels of funding are cut off from ISIS and, through an appropriate diplomatic initiative - we invite it to take it quickly - it is finally asked - having never done so, Minister, any of its counterparts who preceded it - to our supposed, and perhaps ambiguous Middle Eastern allies, to account for any relationship and support to terrorist formations. It also commits itself with clear words to overcome the tensions between the Atlantic Alliance and the Russian Federation, a country that is increasingly fundamental to beat the common enemy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u22	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u23	Mr Minister, someone may think that my reflection is not very important, but I think it is, precisely because it comes from the opposition's benches. I have listened to your report: you did not use the term "Islamic State" to define the caliphate. It is a very positive fact, because words have a great significance today. I must give you credit for using the term "Daesh" and not "Islamic State" as everyone should give it to you. You not only use language appropriately, but you know perfectly well the subject you have addressed today. Not only does he know it, but he knows how to use the right language not to create problems that could become very serious for humanity as a whole. I just wanted to say thank you from the opposition desks.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u24	Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u25	Mr President, Minister, we have very much appreciated your willingness to report to Parliament and also your obstinacy in order not to undermine diplomatic dynamics in Syria, as in Libya, with which you are working to involve Russia, to promote direct relations between Russia and Turkey, and to strengthen and make the anti-ISIS coalition more cohesive. After years of authoritarian stagnation, the Middle East began to move. The rise of radical Islam; the invasion of Iraq and its consequences, which all seem to have forgotten - I also heard some previous intervention - and also those who supported the invasion; the awakening of the Arab Springs; the bloody repressions and now a sustained fall in the price of oil and the success of nuclear negotiations with Iran, have opened up what could turn out to be a new and tormented era for all those involved. And we should be dealing with this for a while. In Syria - for example - something can only be done if you take note of the situation. Our interest is to eliminate or contain the two dangers that are becoming metastases: ISIS, whose growth threatens the region and now our cities, and the tragedy of the Syrian refugees, who are flooding Lebanon and Jordan and who at this stage can destabilise the European Union. But there is no reason to believe that the approach of those who on these occasions only scream "point, aim, fire" can work better than it did in Iraq or Libya. Not to mention that an alliance against ISIS is easier said than done, as we have seen. As evidenced by the clash between Russia and Turkey and as Kerry had to see, with the exception of France and the United States, none of the different actors involved believes that the priority is to deal with ISIS. Iran, the Government of Baghdad and Russia are more interested in preserving Assad than in combating terrorism. On the other hand, Turkey and Saudi Arabia are interested in removing it, not to mention that the Sunnis, the majority of Muslims, do not want to end up under the rule of the Shiites supported by Moscow. So even after the terrible terrorist attack, what really will make the difference, in addition to the efforts to block the ability to finance itself of the Islamic State, its supply lines and reinforcements, to make it more difficult to maintain control of the territory, will be only the diplomatic solution of the Syrian civil war, which created the vacuum filled by the Islamic State. Sending a significant contingent of ground troops to fight the Islamic State would only repeat what Obama rightly considers the mistake of the invasion of Iraq in 2003, without solving the problem facing us. This would be a mistake - Obama said in Turkey - not because our army would not be able to enter Mosul, Raqqa, Ramadi, and remove ISIS, but because we would see a replica of what we have already seen. The victory over terrorist groups - it has emphasized - requires that local populations reject the ideology of extremism, unless we think we occupy those countries permanently. Suppose - he added - to send 50,000 men to Syria: what would happen if there were to be a terrorist attack conceived by Yemen? Do we send soldiers there too? Or do we send them to Libya? And if there's a terrorist network operating somewhere else in North Africa or Southeast Asia, do we send them there? After the attacks in Paris, on the other hand, it begins to raise awareness among the main protagonists (USA, Russia, Iran, Turkey, the Arab Gulf States) that, although ISIS' dream of restoring the caliphate remains out of reach of the group, the continuation of the conflict in Syria risks dangerously strengthening ISIS itself and accelerating the spread of its extremist ideology. But the various protagonists of the conflict must also realize that their personal recipe for resolving the Syrian crisis is probably unworkable. For the United States and its Gulf allies, continuing to support the change regime through Syrian rebels, who are increasingly infiltrated by ISIS, seems increasingly unproductive and questionable from an operational point of view. At the same time, after more than four years of military stalemate, it is clear that Iran's continued support for Assad and the recent intensification of Russian aid to the regime can only help to keep things as they are, but they cannot shift the situation decisively in favor of Assad. Both Tehran and Moscow are struggling to understand that, despite their support, Assad's regime is weaker than ever and it will be impossible to rebuild a unified Syrian state governed exclusively by the regime. For these reasons mainly, both Iran and Russia have recently shown a certain willingness to explore the possibility of a negotiated agreement. Mr Minister, you are right: this is a road that must be crossed to the end. The nuclear agreement with Iran has demonstrated the potential of democracy to resolve and domesticate regional crises. One thing is to associate Russia and another pair of sleeves, as conservatives do in search of a point of reference, is to make Putin suddenly the savior of Christian democracy and culture, the last bulwark against the Islamic invasion. At the bottom, this is a position that betrays not the willingness to build peace with others, but the desire to be left in peace. We want to build peace and remain faithful to the approach of the second part of Article 11 of the Constitution. And we know that Italy is far from reluctant and absent, and we are sure that it will play its part. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u26	I declare closed the discussion on the information of the Government, thanking the minister Gentiloni Silveri. We now come to the examination of bill 2138. The rapporteurs, Senators Compagna and Vattuone, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Compagna.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u27	Mr President, this measure contains aspects within the competence of the Committee on Foreign Affairs which are regulated in Chapter II of the Decree-Law, i.e. Articles 8, 9 and 10. The rapporteur, Mr Vattuone, will be responsible for the rest. Articles 8, 9 and 10 involve measures related to cooperation initiatives and support for reconstruction processes, both at bilateral level and within the various international organisations working for the consolidation of peace and stabilisation processes. For example, Article 8 provides for an increase in the budget for cooperation initiatives for the last quarter of 2015. The projects take place throughout the arc of crisis theatres of various kinds: Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Central African Republic, Iraq, Libya, Mali, Niger, Myanmar, Pakistan, Palestine, Syria, Somalia, Sudan, South Sudan and Yemen and, in relation to the assistance of refugees, in neighbouring countries. The planned appropriation amounts to €38.5 million, supplementing the funds already provided for by the 2015 Stability Act. The changes introduced by the House of Deputies to the text originally approved by the Government also extended cooperation interventions to Nepal, Haiti and Ukraine. Italy has chosen to use part of the resources to support European and international initiatives in the control of migratory flows, a question that directly concerns our country. In particular, our country is expected to participate adequately in the European Trust Fund on Migration, as decided and reaffirmed at the Valletta Summit between the European Union and African countries. The Italian cooperation measures are divided by geographical area and, in the Commission, we have examined how, in the various countries, this cooperation is proposed. I have to say that, from this point of view, there have been no significant amending proposals in relation to the text received from the House of Deputies. I would add, then, except for a broader text, that approved in the Commission - I turn it over to the acts - that the decree-law also finances interventions for the strengthening of the security of structures abroad of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and of course for the personnel of the Ministry sent on mission in areas deemed to be at high risk. In conclusion, as part of Italy's participation in international organizations' initiatives, I would add that Article 9 provides for contributions to the UN Staff College in Turin, the UN Department of Political Affairs, the Special Envoy for Syria (the above mentioned, by Minister Gentiloni, Staffan de Mistura), the Italian-Latin American Institute, the OSCE missions and the InCE Trust Fund established at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. These are the specific implications of the Foreign Affairs Committee's attention. I should also like to say that, at an amendment stage, especially on the part of my colleagues in Forza Italia, there has been a problem with the parliamentary composition of the COPASIR control body. However, it seemed to us - in agreement with the rapporteur of the Defence Committee - that this issue could not be dealt with in the context of the conversion of this decree-law, by appealing to a fair parliamentary play rather than to other circumstances. I believe that I have adequately summarized the work on the part of the Foreign Affairs Committee. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Vattuone.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u28	Mr President, Parliament is about to vote on the extension of international missions at a historic stage in which there is a real change in global security, and we are unfortunately once again addressing the issue of international missions through the procedure of the refinancing decree-law. I therefore feel obliged to draw your attention, Mr President, to the need to complete the final adoption of the framework law, which is already before the Senate Chamber, whose effects are profound and important. A regulatory framework is finally introduced that gives greater certainty and coherence to our participation in international missions, facilitating a greater deepening by Parliament of the response needed to address complex crises such as today and a better and more profitable interaction on the subject between the distinct prerogatives of the President of the Republic, the Government and the Chambers. In any case, the current measure, in the light of the latest tragic events in Paris and the consequences of the multilateral action that has been discussed and discussed with Minister Gentiloni, offers us an opportunity to reflect on the reasons, aims and needs of our presence abroad in the theatres of crisis in the United Nations, NATO and European Union operations. I do not think there is any doubt that the attacks in Paris mark a historic event that has already led to an acceleration and a turning point in international relations and in the approach to crises in the Middle East, whose consequences and evolution we will be able to measure only gradually. In this sense, the motivations and needs of our commitment today are even stronger and raising the profile of the threat means that our commitment to the degradation of security conditions must be even more central to our foreign and defence policy. Paris had immediate consequences and the Vienna Conference resulted in an agreement on the Syrian issue. It is a partial and fragile agreement - as has been said - but that nevertheless starts from the fact that it is indispensable to contain the group of the Islamic State in this region and that, to this end, the continuation of the conflict in Syria is no longer tolerable. However, for the time being, at least for this region and for the enormous priority represented by the threat of Daesh, the objective of an understanding has been achieved that includes the great Western nations and the main regional actors. The complexity of today's scenario (unites areas from North Africa to the great Middle East) and phenomena such as migratory flows and the bitter conflict within the Muslim world will require time and resources - as has been said - and a capacity for analysis and long-term policies that, even in the need of an adaptation of military strategies, glimpses system solutions from a political and diplomatic point of view. There are enormous movements in this picture. The point of reference - it must be stable - is our international position. Our country is in line with history and its tradition, incardinated in the design of the security and defence policy of the great Western democracies and the international organizations of which we are part, first of all the European Union and NATO. Therefore, the concrete ways of articulating our commitment will change, of which we already know the general lines of evolution, of course bringing our perspective to the agenda of the international community. As has been said, the Mediterranean plays a central role and the Ministerial Conference on Libya on 13 December announced by Minister Gentiloni is certainly good news. But our responsibility is borne out in this provision: we are engaged in 30 missions and 19 theatres of operation, with a cost of about 300 million only for the defense and a total of 355 million, if we consider the initiatives of cooperation, with a staff of 5.686 units against the 5.313 of the previous decree-law. I do not dwell on the analysis of the various interventions and ask for permission to deposit my speech. The focus will be on three territorial areas: Europe, Asia and Africa. To mention, as far as Europe is concerned, is the military operation EUNAVFOR Med and, in this case, also the Air policing mission, which no longer appears. It was the reconnaissance activity on the Baltic Republics, a NATO mission that ended because Italy's turn ended. As far as Asia is concerned, I recall the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon, the new NATO mission in Afghanistan, which is also very important for the fight against terrorism, called Resolute support mission, and, in particular, participation in international coalition activities to combat the terrorist threat of Daesh, for which we will commit approximately 65 million euros and bring to 750 the number of units employed, particularly in Iraq, for the support of the peshmerga, as happened in this last year. As for Africa, there are anti-piracy missions. Following are the articles concerning the infrastructure, the information-operative devices of the AISE and the personnel part. The part concerning intelligence, already discussed in the framework law and sub-amendments, which - within the framework law - had been drawn up by the Defence Commission and was for the attention of the Senate Assembly, has also been included. In this regard, I renew to the President of the Senate the need to complete the process of this important law. Finally, there is the part concerning the provisions on financial cover. Let me conclude by expressing our gratitude to our military, without forgetting the tribute offered, also in terms of human lives, which was very high and testified, in this respect too, the value of excellence that has always distinguished our presence in the context of international missions. As we said earlier, international missions represent an assumption of responsibility for a country like ours, which has always been on the side of international law and participates in the general assumption of responsibility of the international community, for the defence of peace and security, in the awareness that the crises and related threats that result from it do not resolve themselves. Our country boasts a long-term commitment, remaining among the most important contributing countries, both in terms of personnel employed and in terms of financial contribution. We are among the first in NATO, the United Nations and the European Union. Therefore, in today's complex and troubled reality, international missions are one of the privileged tools for tackling complex crises and implementing an international policy adapted to new difficulties and crises. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u29	The Presidency authorizes the rapporteurs to attach the full text of the reports to today's report. I declare that the question referred for a preliminary ruling has been referred to QP1. He asked to intervene Senator De Cristofaro to illustrate it. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u30	Mr President, I will be very quick in my illustration, because this question is very similar to what we have tabled in the past months on similar measures. Our criticism is in fact always the same: we think that yet another decree-law extending all international missions, which, as we know, are often completely different from each other, does not make possible an organic discussion, which - as I tried to say a few minutes ago in the discussion on the information of Minister Gentiloni - would instead be extremely urgent, especially in the light of what is happening in the world. This would allow us to understand exactly, mission by mission, whether they have actually served and have brought benefits to the foreign policy of the country or if, instead, as we believe, in some cases they have been useless or even harmful. When we come to the subject tomorrow and have the opportunity to make an explanation of vote, I will explain why, in our opinion, several of these missions have been harmful and have not helped to defeat terrorism at all. We think it would be much more right if this Parliament could assess each mission in relation to its particularities, with its own reasoning, and we believe that an instrument such as the decree-law prevents this type of analysis and conscious deliberation on this point. We also believe that the decree-law on this subject in itself demonstrates a fundamental element, that is the lack of that characteristic of extraordinary government intervention, was nothing else because instead, as we know, the missions are renewed every six months, with a mechanism even ritual. Therefore, in our view, the elements referred to in Article 77 of the Constitution, in this case more than ever, are lacking. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u31	Since no one intends to speak in the debate, I shall put to the vote the question referred by Senator De Petris and other senators for a preliminary ruling. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today debating yet another decree-law extending international missions, but it is a measure which seems completely detached and detached from the current international political context. In 2001, on the emotional wave of the terrible attacks on the twin towers of New York, we rushed to war alongside the United States of Bush to defend - it was said then - our freedom. The same reasons led us in 2003 to invade Iraq with the certainty, then denied by history, that Saddam Hussein was guaranteeing cover, chemical weapons and logistical aid to Al Qaeda. With the suicidal idea of having to export democracy, we strongly supported the Bush doctrine, which justified military aggression in Afghanistan and Iraq and also inspired subsequent wars in Libya and Syria. Since then, colleagues, the total cost of international missions for Italy amounts to 12,731 million euros, resources - it has always been said - used to defeat terrorism and to free these countries from dictators and totalitarian regimes mistakenly considered as the main cause of the proliferation of jihadist cells. We have overthrown Saddam Hussein and Gaddafi, bloody dictators who, however, have served us well for years and with whom we have casually done business and created ISIS, the evolution of Al Qaeda, a phenomenon - let us not forget - all Iraqi, which we have armed and trained, as our leader Giarrusso said before, and which, in addition to having hit hard in France already twice, we are using to free ourselves from another dictator, Bashar al-Assad, no longer functional to the political and economic interests of the West. In fact, in an international context, which is now quite different from that of a few years ago, in which the terrorist attacks have struck Europe at its heart, the Government has thought well to allocate more than 300 million euros for the last quarter of 2015 for the refinancing of international missions, instead of using these funds to start a process of peace in the Middle East and strengthen internal security measures. Every military on a foreign mission is, at this moment, one less military in defense in our country and we cannot Let's have it. These funds must be invested in internal security, not elsewhere. In the Stability Act, we proposed to increase intelligence resources by EUR 20 million over the next three years and to cancel the cut of EUR 219 million to the Armed Forces, but you rejected the amendment. Now you have come to tell us that we do not have time: but the time to sell the weapons and put them on display, even in the cruise ships, you have had it. We welcome this meeting scheduled for 13 December, and we hope that there will indeed be a serious intention to launch a completely different foreign policy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u33	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are being asked to convert a very complex decree-law into law, on which it is not possible to give a single judgment. Inside there is really everything: there are at least 35 military operations currently in progress in which Italy participates. The missions are located between the Mediterranean, Africa, the Middle East and Asia, and there are a total of 4,462 men and women in our Armed Forces. We go from Morocco to Somalia, from the border between Pakistan and India to Afghanistan, in a succession of different interventions. You travel between Europe, Asia, Africa and, while reading, you come to mind so many memories. A lot of names are familiar. I remember when Italy bombed the former Yugoslavia. How bad Milosevic was, Mr President. And we defended minorities. Continuing, we move to Somalia. We also intervened there. It was 1991. How bad Siad Barre was, Mr. President. And we defended the Somali people! I'm still running, and I find Afghanistan. It was 2001. I remember everything. The Twin Towers that fall and practically, a few days later, the attack on Afghanistan. How bad the Taliban were. And we brought democracy and took the veil off women! What I see, Mr President, is that we are still there to solve the problems we have created, because the interest is not to bring peace, but to have a situation of chaos and permanent war, in order to feed both the missions and the supply of weapons, logistics all the economy that revolves around the war. But as I said before, this decree-law is very complex and there are missions of opposite sign. With regard to the missions included in the so-called Europe Group, linked to the devastation of the Balkans, there is the famous Eurogendfor, the notorious nascent European police, which does not respond to any national and/or European political authority. Of the same type we can also consider the missions of the Africa group, in particular the mission in Somalia, which has been going on since 1991, between missions that alternate each other in support of stability, disappeared with the first bombings of the country. Finally, for the Asia Group, how can we fail to mention the longest international political error of the new century, namely Afghanistan? What more to say than my colleagues have already said about this? This is a mistake made in 2001, and justified from year to year, on the pretext of not abandoning the Afghan people who, said among us, would be happy to let us go. But we know, we must repair a mistake, which often perpetuates itself as a prehistoric unicellular organism. Today we want to refinance with 58 million euros the participation in Resolute support mission, with a vaguely ridiculous name, if it does not cause all these deaths and that resolve has nothing at all, since we have been there for fourteen years. And in fact the current quota is of 834 units, against the 650 employed in the first nine months of 2015. As I said at the beginning, Ukraine and Syria can instead fall into the category of "perpetuating mistakes already made in the past", a sort of coming soon of death and destruction already seen elsewhere. Here is what we would do to the Government: we would immediately withdraw all the Italian contingent in Afghanistan and Somalia; we would impose for the anti-piracy missions the obligation to monitor the Somali coasts, as requested by the fragile Somali Government, that you want to help only by providing weapons and training; we would ask to interrupt missions on the territory, which cause many deaths, outside the context of international law. Thus, while Renzi shoots the new big bale of the euro to security and the euro to culture (a bit about the style of paper wins, paper loses, which reminds us so much of Totò's cheating in his films), this Parliament, on the advice of the Government, is preparing to authorize missions with harmful purposes and that will need to be financed forever. With these answers, the problems are not solved, nothing is solved. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u35	Senator Cotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of military missions, we now find ourselves, as a periodic appointment in the Senate, having to accept or not the proposals that come from the Government, because there is never any room for parliamentary initiative on these issues. The measures in Parliament come when the provisions we have to vote on are actually already in place. For example, in today's debate we are talking about spending on the last few months of the current year, which is almost over. Basically, we're making fun of ourselves. I do not want to restrict the subject of my intervention to the military missions in which we are engaged, but rather extend it to the whole foreign and defence policy of our country, which is now touching the ridiculous or the grotesque, since we are talking about very serious and sad things. After the United States, Italy is the country engaged in the largest number of foreign states in military missions, which I would divide into two categories: unnecessary and harmful missions. The latter are certainly the majority because, in fact, we do not have a clear and well-defined foreign policy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We do not know what we want to get around the world and we go more than anything to the tow of our NATO allies or others, trying to be present everywhere. Why are we trying to be present everywhere with our Armed Forces? I give a fairly simple explanation, which I believe the Italians are beginning to understand. Italy has a very developed arms industry and, for the first time with this Government, the Ministry of Defense joins the Italian companies that offer their goods to States around the world as planners, making agreements over and over again. Even today, three other international cooperation agreements have been examined by the Defence Commission which, on a regular basis, also provide for the exchange of arms or military knowledge. I believe that by now everyone is beginning to understand that, in reality, we are engaged in military missions simply to promote our arms companies and that they finance the missions themselves. This brings together the economic interests of these companies and the interests of much of the military world, as military missions give many generals the opportunity to make a more effective career around the world. We also make more money for our military personnel who are very happy to bear the burdens and risks of these missions, which sometimes put their lives at risk unnecessarily. They're no good because we don't solve anything around the world, just see what's going on in Afghanistan. In essence, we do these military missions simply for the economic interests of the few and, given the results, with the growth of international terrorism, all goes to the detriment of the Italian people, who continue to see themselves taken away resources that should perhaps serve to guarantee our internal security. But obviously, rather than bulletproof vests for our cops, you prefer to spend money around the world consuming weapons, ammunition, bombs and so on. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u37	Senator Marton is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u38	Mr President, I would like to thank you for accepting our request for a deal on international missions and alternative defence. In my view, this assigned affair should have been discussed earlier and I believe that something like this should be dealt with seriously by the whole of Parliament. We are now facing a measure that has been armored by the House. We are dealing with mono-cameralism in fact: the draft law before us came from the Chamber which has already been prepared, nothing could be done in the Commission except to take note of the rejection of all the amendments. The majority did not even intervene on the amendments and therefore never entered into the substance of the matter because everything has already been decided. I believe that we need serious reflection on why we are around the world with our soldiers, so I also ask, if it is possible at this point, to interrupt the debate on the framework law on international missions and to wait until the end of the process of this assigned affair by raising the people who are in those war theatres (the representatives of Emergency, Doctors without frontiers, or Amnesty International), and who operate on the ground in addition to the military and in addition to the people who have led our soldiers on the field. I believe that a reflection on the part of the whole Parliament (and not just a branch of the House) must be done, also because, if we go to analyze some missions - I will be trivial, I apologize to this half-desired House - by throwing the sums, for example for the mission in Afghanistan, we find ourselves faced with fourteen years of intervention, 5 billion spent and an average of 630 people died every month. I believe that a serious reflection on the part of this Parliament on the strategic needs of our country must be done. In Lebanon it is thirty-eight years of mission with an average of 1,000 of our soldiers a year. Do we want to ask ourselves what it was for and what it was for? And I don't just speak in general terms of spending, because it would mean trivializing the story. There are difficult theaters that go, yes, stabilized, but we probably need to give the floor to diplomacy and stop sending our soldiers to risk their lives because we do not know why; perhaps only because of the desire to count in the NATO Assembly or in international circles. I think we need to stop and reason, Undersecretary Rossi, serenely. We are only asking for a serious confrontation on what our ambitions are, European or international in NATO, if we are to follow what we are being asked to do, to invest 2% of GDP in arms and for what reason, and to see whether the Italian people, or in the first place this Parliament, really need to carry out so many international missions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u39	I will refer the continuation of the discussion of draft law No 2138 to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u40	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-547.ana.u41	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday, December 3, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.35 a.m.
