ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-423.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-423.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-423.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:31 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-423.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-423.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-423.ana.u6	PADUA (PD). Mr President, today is the World Day of Autism Awareness. Let's give people who suffer from this disease an extra moment of attention, a thought, a caress. It is a very important signal, in this prestigious Chamber, to open Parliament's proceedings on 2 April on this subject. A specific indication that the Senate and other institutions do not forget people too often, unfortunately, distracted in civil society, precisely because of their own ailments. Probably there is no better way to inaugurate this day dedicated to autism and spectre disorders, recalling the approval, which took place unanimously a few days ago in the Health Commission in deliberating session, of a dedicated bill. The Senate, through the Health Commission and thanks to the fruitful work of all its members, has been able to give a first concrete and strong signal of attention to those suffering from this disease and to their families. For this reason it is now important that the path of the law has an accelerated process in the House, in order to reach, within a short time, definitive approval. We hope, in a precise year, on this very day, to be able to report to the Assembly on the concrete results obtained by the Act on Autism, which is a framework measure. In fact, it serves to promote equal treatment of pathology for children, adolescents and adults in the different Italian regions, according to uniform and equal standards of care and criteria throughout the national territory, because unfortunately this is not the case now. The next update of the LEAs, in which early diagnosis, care and individualised treatment are included through the use of methods and tools based on the most advanced scientific evidence available, is the other key aspect of the bill, in addition to the objectives identified for regional policies. Autism is a permanent disability, with a number of specific characteristics: it accompanies the subject in his life cycle, manifests itself in different and variable forms and, above all, is characterized by an atypical mental function, so as to require therapeutic and socio-assistant interventions particularly dedicated. It is important that a state law provides for intervention measures ranging from early diagnosis, to treatment, to certification in all age groups, with particular regard to the formation of an educational-health approach that is, as far as possible - we sincerely hope - structured, comprehensive and organic. Inclusiveness of children in the society around them through a network of competent services, concrete possibilities of employment for adults, specific support for families: these are the general objectives to provide people with autism a future that is as normal as possible. These objectives are not only pursued by a law, although necessary, but above all we must work and work in the community for a greater awareness of autism, which is first and foremost a cultural issue. Spectrum disorders are very frequent, with no difference in ethnicity and social status. For this reason, autism is a condition that requires a considerable amount of human and economic resources. According to in-depth studies, the most important items of expenditure are special education services and the loss of parental productivity when the child is of child and adolescent age, while in adulthood the higher costs are linked to home care or assisted residences and to the loss of individual productivity. To give an idea of the cost of autism just remember that in the UK they are greater than those of stroke and cancer put together. The high frequency of the disorder, its chronicity and the high costs of care make it a real social and health emergency, not only in Western countries but throughout the world, putting pressing questions of health policy and research of the many causes of spectrum disorders, known only in 20% of cases. That is why today it has been decided to give international prominence to the day on awareness and I want to remind this House of the many territorial initiatives, curated by interested parents, institutions, associations, researchers and operators, who every day, in their own little, struggle to give a possible future to people who suffer. Today we dedicate our first thought and best intentions to them, to their daily efforts and to all people suffering from autism and spectre disorders. Finally, I cannot fail to thank President Grasso. [[Applause from Senator Favero]] for his sensitivity to this problem and also for his willingness to illuminate Palazzo Madama for this very important day. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-423.ana.u7	The next item is the debate on document IV-a, No 1, which contains: Report by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the request for authorization to proceed to trial, pursuant to Article 96 of the Constitution, against Senator Altero Matteoli, in his capacity as Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Pro-Temporary Territory and the Infrastructure and Transport Pro-Temporary, as well as Mr Piergiorgio Baita, Nicolò Buson, Erasmus Cinque, William Ambrogio Colombelli and Giovanni Mazzacurati, each partly for the offences referred to in Articles 81, paragraph, 110, 319 and 321 of the Criminal Code (corruption for acts contrary to office duties) The report has been printed and distributed. The Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities decided, by a majority, to propose to the Assembly to grant authorization to proceed with Senator Altero Matteoli in his capacity as Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Pro-Temporary Territory and the Infrastructures and Transports Pro-Temporary; unanimously, by separate votes, to propose to the Assembly to grant the aforementioned authorization to proceed in court also with respect to the co-indagatives Piergiorgio Baita, Nicolò Buson, Erasmus Cinque, William Ambrogio Colombelli and Giovanni Mazzacurati. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Stefano, whether he intends to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-423.ana.u8	Mr President, as far as the facts are concerned, I refer to the written report. However, I would like to draw the House's attention to a number of points. Constitutional Law No 1 of 16 January 1989 brought the so-called ministerial crimes back into the ordinary criminal rite, balancing the principle of equality before jurisdiction with that of guaranteeing the function of government. The safeguarding of the function of government is first implemented through the assignment of the conduct of preliminary investigations to the Tribunal of Ministers and secondly through the authorization to proceed of one of the two Chambers according to two cases of extra-ordinam justification that the competent Chamber is called to assess. These two cases are capable of highlighting reasons for the state's reasoning which render the continuation of criminal proceedings inappropriate and are specified in the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest of the State, or in the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the function of government. Therefore, the Junta presided over by me had to ascertain whether or not one of the two causes of extra-ordinam justification just referred to. The memory deposited by Senator Matteoli (like the other filed by one of the co-indicates) focuses on the central point of the arguments on the procedural violations committed - in the judgment of the defence - of the Venice Public Prosecutor, on the collaboration assured by the Minister to the proceeding authority, on the choice of the tax police and on the modus operandi of the tax police itself, on the manner in which the questioning of Dr. Mazzacurati was carried out, on the violation of the rights of defence (including the prohibition of access to certain acts of investigation), on the territorial incompetence of the court of Venice, on the escape of news, on the anomalies of the report transmitted to the Senate, on profiles related to the ministerial crimes subject of the accusation and, finally, on the illogicality of the dispute of the corruption case. Senator Matteoli also followed the same defensive approach during the hearing in Giunta. In the memory and the hearing, therefore, there is no connection between the wrongdoing contested by Senator Matteoli and the interest of the State or the public in the conduct of criminal conduct (in the species, of the corrupt conduct). Even the execution complained by my colleague Matteoli of interceptions in violation of the obligation to acquire the prior authorization finds only on the procedural level, waiting that the Senate can decide only on the requests for interceptions forwarded by the judicial authority, but not on those not sent. In reply, on 7 January 2015, in Giunta I made it clear, as rapporteur, that the Senate has no objective possibility of bringing out the aforementioned procedural irregularities, not even through the instrument of the conflict of attribution. I repeat, therefore, that the refusal of authorisation to proceed, under the above-mentioned constitutional law, motivated by the alleged procedural violations, would be unlawful and would lead to an excess of power for misguided purposes. In the course of the investigation carried out by the Junta, it has not emerged, in fact, any profile of public interest to the illicit attainment of the sums object of the corruptive pact, at least according to the investigative thesis. The offence, in the forms in which it appears to have been perfected, makes it difficult to identify the grounds for justification provided for by Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989 and on which Senator Matteoli gave no explanation. Reasoning in absolute terms, I wish to underline a fundamental step: even if the defence affirms its non-existentness to the facts (in the sense of not having committed them or not having verified themselves), the union of the Junta must be expressed in the sense of the authorization to proceed; while the "confession" of the fact operated by a Minister but explained in the light of the extraordinam cases must be evaluated by the Junta according to the existence or not of one of the causes of justification provided for by the constitutional law of reference. An element, emerged in the course of the debate, concerns the circumstance that, according to the prospect of the accusation, Senator Matteoli had entered into transactions between the State and a company responsible for the pollution in Porto Marghera, then assigning the relative financing to the Consorzio Venezia Nuova, in relation to the reclamation of the industrial sites located in that territorial area. Senator Matteoli had no other option but to implement the decisions of the Council Presidency previously in office, as pointed out during the general discussion by some of the speakers (and as suggested by the latter in his memoir, deposited in Giunta). In particular, the former Minister of the Environment argues, in his memory, that he has implemented the previous determinations of the Presidency of the Council and, in particular, of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 12 February 1999, with which the programme agreement on chemistry was approved in Porto Marghera of October 1998. In the light of this reconstruction, some colleagues have suggested that the cause of justification referred to in Article 9 (3) of Constitutional Law No 1 of 1989, i.e. the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the function of government, should be configurable. This assumption, however, is not acceptable, as in the acts transmitted by the proxy it is read that Matteoli Altero received cash directly from Mazzacurati and Baita for the amount of 400,000 euros and 150,000 euros delivered through Colombelli William Ambrogio and Buson Nicolò. The crime, in the forms in which it seems to have been perfected, cannot be justified by the governmental public interest, given that the hypothetical need to legitimately implement a decision of the Government previously in office would not justify however Senator Matteoli regarding the presumed (subline) receipt of a sum of money for the exercise of that function. In the course of the debate, some Senators finally argued that the hypothesis of corruption, the subject of the accusation, is not due in any way to the case of the so-called ministerial crimes referred to in Article 96 of the Constitution, for which it was proposed the necessity by the Junta to declare its incompetence and to decide, therefore, the return of the acts to the judicial authority. This solution would, in my view, coincide in practical terms with the authorisation to proceed. On the theoretical level, however, the argument that the present case is not attributable to Article 96 has not been accepted, since the corruptive pactum in the present case has been concluded in relation to the exercise of the duties and public authorities of Senator Matteoli, acting as Minister protempore. For these reasons and for the more detailed reasons set out in the report, the Junta, as you just said to the Assembly, at its meeting on 7 January 2015, took the following decisions: it accepted, by a majority, the proposal for the Assembly to grant authorization to proceed with Senator Altero Matteoli, in his capacity as Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Pro-Temporary Territory and the Infrastructure and Transport Pro-Temporary; it unanimously accepted, by separate votes, the proposals for the Assembly to grant the aforementioned authorization to proceed also with regard to the co-indicates Piergiorgio Baita, Nicolò Buson, Erasmus Cinque, William Ambrogio Colombelli and Giovanni Mazzacurati.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-423.ana.u9	I would remind you that, until the end of the debate, at least twenty senators may make proposals which differ from the conclusions of the Junta, by submitting reasoned agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-423.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of brevity and not to bore you, I will not go into the details of the court case that involves me. This is a political and institutional forum which is not called upon to judge on the merits. However, at a time when it is no longer the mere citizen of Altero Matteoli, but the former Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, I think it is right that the Senate should be fully aware of the issues that are being examined, with particular reference to certain anomalies and constitutional violations that have also been found during the examination of the dossier in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. I come to the facts: in May last year a letter was delivered to me by the Venice Public Prosecutor in which the opening of a file without definite object was communicated. After many difficulties, my lawyers managed to obtain copies of the acts and learned that in the context of the well-known investigation on the MOSE of Venice, the main witness of accusation, named Mazzacurati, president of the Consorzio Venezia Nuova, had declared that he had personally remunerated me with money and electoral funding for the favors done to him over the years. Other witnesses, who I have never had the opportunity to meet or to know, said that the favors I made to the consortium would consist in the transfer to the magistrate of the waters of Venice, structure of the Ministry of Infrastructure, of the funds that the Ministry of the environment had managed to obtain from the enterprises considered responsible for the pollution of Porto Marghera. In the face of these accusations, I had the opportunity to demonstrate that the sole electoral funding received by the consortium, amounting to EUR 20,000, was immediately returned by my electoral contractor to the sender. It's in the records and there's bank accounts. What I'm saying is absolutely not unforgettable. I asked to be able to compare myself with the Mazzacurati in order to know under what circumstances I would ever receive cash from the same. I have also provided the judicial authority with my accounts for the past 12 years and all the information about my assets because, from this point of view too, there is really nothing to hide. I even handed over to the magistrates the cheque matrix issued from 2004 to the end of 2014. But all this is a procedural matter and we will certainly have the deepening in that place. On the other hand, I can't help but point out that my lawyers were denied the right to question the Mazzacurati, although they had declared themselves willing to participate in the interview at any time and anywhere. The Mazzacurati was heard for interrogation in the United States of America where he said he had serious health problems and, during an interrogation that defines surrealism is a pure euphemism, he said, contradicting himself with respect to previous depositions, that he would give me money on two occasions. The first is in 1993 (when I was just a member of the opposition), many years before I met him because I met him at the beginning of the 2000s, six or seven years later. The second is in 2013, about two years after the fall of the government I was part of. All this would have happened inside an unknown Ministry or in my home in Lucca. But, ladies and gentlemen, I have never had a home in Lucca: everyone can acclaim that I have never had a house in Lucca, neither owned nor rented. In the interview of the Mazzacurati in America even his wife took part, who suggested some answers, and the latter concluded the interrogation - in front of those who questioned him and asked him to confirm what he had said - with the expression: But no, throw it all away, referring to the answers just given. It is very important, ladies and gentlemen, to explain what was done by the Ministry of the Environment in 2003, by some paintings as doubt or even illegitimate. I would like to thank the Council for the way in which it has worked and for the respect it has had in examining the situation: nothing to complain about, beyond the determination it has received, which I agree with, among other things, as I shall say at the end of my speech. As the rapporteur has now pointed out very correctly, the Ministry of the Environment has implemented the previous decisions of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers (in particular, the decree of 12 February 1999 of the President of the Council) with which the programme agreement on chemistry in Porto Marghera of October 1998 was approved. In that agreement of program, to point 3.1.A, it was arranged that the magistrate of the waters and the harbour authority of Venice provided for the preliminary and necessary works of contermination of the sites and that the magistrate of the waters would realize, anticipating the expense, the participations of margining of the industrial channels in the area of Porto Marghera, providing then - I quote - repeat how much anticipated near the companies that turned out, in judicial or transactive responsible for the pollution. Therefore, as the Minister of the Environment I moved, as was my particular duty, exclusively to implement previous decisions of the Government, in particular, in other political colors, even giving funds derived from transactions to a Dicastery other than mine. I now come to the evaluations of the Junta, which here have only been partially remembered. As part of the work of the Junta, there was a violation of various constitutional and procedural rules during the investigations. These circumstances were clearly discussed in the Junta. Senator Stefani represented how the judicial authority has put procedural irregularities in place. Senator Buemi has stigmatized the significant violations of procedural and constitutional rules committed in this case by the competent prosecutor, pointing out that in a rule of law non-compliance with the laws cannot be justified under any circumstances, even therefore for the pursuit of a certain purpose. Senator Alicata has evidenced that in the case of this case are recognizable resounding violations of procedural norms, also of constitutional matrix. Senator Caliendo pointed out that serious constitutional violations have been committed by the judicial authority in the present case, against which the Senate cannot remain indifferent, and this is with regard to the unlawful interceptions carried out both with regard to the unjustified delay with which the acts were transmitted to the Court of Ministers, in contrast to Article 6, paragraph 2, of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989. Also the President-rapporteur - I must say - has appropriately found the lamented carrying out of intercepts in violation of the obligation to acquire the prior authorization (of which article 10 of the Constitutional Law n. 1 of 1989), emphasizing that "when the Chamber competent thought that the judicial authority proceeding has damaged the sphere of own attributions recognized by the Constitutional Law n. 1 of 1989, could also raise the conflict of attribution in front of the Constitutional Court", but complaining at the same time the difficulty of carrying out an adequate reconnaissance about the subsistence or not of the premises for the activation of the conflict in the case of the case of the Constitutional Court. It is also clear from the proceedings that the prosecutor of the Republic of Venice did not promptly transmit the file that concerns me to the Court of Ministers, that is, within 15 days as required by the constitutional law, but with nine months of delay during which the judicial police did not refrain from continuing the investigation, in violation of an explicit prohibition imposed by the same constitutional law. Another anomaly: as many as 213 indirect telephone interceptions have been made, in a completely illegitimate way, on my telephone users for whom a request for authorization has never been made to the Senate. I know I have never had, and I still have no fear: they use 213 wiretap as well. If they ask for permission to proceed here, I will be the first to ask that they be granted because there is nothing in the interceptions, but they have been carried out. Mr President, I have sent you a note from two authoritative constitutionalists who have highlighted this but not to defend myself, because Matteoli will defend himself in the courtrooms, but rather to make you take note of this in order to protect the senators. There's no way that a magistrate can wiretap without permission. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I have no fear or concern about the contents of these interceptions which, on the contrary, demonstrate my absolute correctness; but it is in fact that they have been carried out and then used for probative purposes in a completely illegitimate way. In this regard, I felt that I would submit to the Senate Presidency the authoritative opinion of two illustrious constitutionalists, because beyond the specific case of Senator Matteoli, I believe that there should be due attention on these issues. Several judgments of the Constitutional Court have established that indirect interceptions of a Member may be used, without authorization, only if they are sporadic and random. It does not seem to me that 213 interceptions can be considered sporadic and random. Legality, Mr President, concerns everyone: politicians of course (and I am not here to ask for permission not to proceed; on the contrary, I want it to be given), citizens (I do not like to use the term common citizen), but also the judiciary; the judiciary must also abide by the rules. Finally, the territorial incompetence of Venice with respect to accusations that refer to hypothetical crimes committed in Rome or in Tuscany is all too evident, and also this issue - particularly serious and delicate - deserves to be known and considered. As far as my demands are concerned, in the light of these circumstances, some Members have represented their intention to table agendas to ask for the rejection of the Junta's proposal - I have here the texts which I think are most correct - for the existence of the presupposition of the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of my function as a government. Other colleagues have highlighted the possibility of the Senate promoting a conflict of attribution in order to assert its prerogatives. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their attention to these issues, which relate not only to the form but also to the substance of the case. I would also like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for accepting my invitation to avoid any initiative that might give rise to shadows about my work as a citizen, as a Member of Parliament and as a Minister. I do not want to get out of this because no authorisation has been granted to proceed; I absolutely do not want to get out of this way. I want to get out of this by going to trial thanks to the pronunciation issued. [[Applause]] Since the rise of this incredible and, at the same time, disconcerting surreal story, I have thought, overcoming the strong resistance of my lawyers and friends, that the best way would be to not lend in any way the side to the powerful populism, which has often in recent times degenerated into authentic media-judicial aggressions against the political class of the country. I would, however, like to submit to the scrutiny of justice, to its investigations which, I am sure, will be carried out with professionalism and independence of judgment. I therefore ask, Mr President, that the Senate Assembly, as required by the Rules of Procedure, accept the conclusions reached by a majority by the Junta, i.e. that it authorizes the judiciary to proceed with me. I will defend myself with determination and strength, because I have nothing to fear. It is my specific will, ladies and gentlemen, to deal with this matter with a high head in the certainty that everything can be clarified in the classrooms of justice to the full satisfaction of the undersigned and of those who, in more than thirty years of permanence in the political race, have believed in my honesty and in the transparency of my behaviour in the various public responsibilities that I have had and have the honour to cover. I could close here, but let me add something that I want to keep to the record right now. You will never find written in the newspapers that Altero Matteoli has dealt: I will never settle anything, at any cost. You don't settle for what you didn't do. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Mixed Groups.]] All my colleagues - and most of all you, Mr President, for the role you played before you were a senator - will have noticed that some of the criminal offences or the possibility of criminal offences against me date back to 2002 and 2003. But I never spoke of a prescription: I told my lawyers that for me the prescription can also be removed, because I do not accept to get out of this matter even through the prescription; I do not want to know, because I have not committed anything. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Mixed Groups.]] The plea is an admission of guilt: the lawmakers say that this is not true, that the law does not provide for it. In my opinion, those who settle admit a crime: I have nothing to admit, so I can't settle. In short, I want to defend myself in the trial, not from the trial, continuing to enjoy, if possible, the esteem and trust of those who know me. I apologize if I have extended too long and thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Mixed Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-423.ana.u11	Senator Matteoli, since you have called me into question for a letter of your own, you will certainly know that your letter has been sent to the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, which you have replied by pointing out, as you well know, that the judges of merit and the Court of Cassation will certainly be able to declare that the interceptions are unusable for failure to obtain the appropriate authorization if directed. For those indirect the assessment is made by the judge and subsequently by the Cassation. Therefore, due to the non-occurrence of the processability condition they will not be considered usable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-423.ana.u12	Mr President, I took note of Senator Matteoli's request not to present alternative agendas, because he wanted to do so, although there was a very clear indication from the Court of Ministers that there had been a misguided power because it had adapted to what President D'Alema had established. Having said that, however, I did not intervene for this reason, but because the President of the election committee and the acts of the election committee have shown, as has been said, a violation of the constitutional rule. I am not talking about a breach of wiretapping, although I do not share the view that the issue of irrelevance should be developed in the context of the trial because, if it is assumed here that the interceptions were carried out irregularly, the Senate, as an institution of the Republic, would be fully justified in transmitting them to the Minister of Justice and to the Prosecutor General of the Court of Cassation. But the question of the violation of the constitutional norm (specific violation also noted by the President of the Junta) cannot be resolved by silently remaining as if nothing were the case. If there has been a violation of a constitutional rule, we must not give a judgment today, but because it seems likely that there has been, it is clear that the acts, as an institutional duty, must be passed on to the Minister of Justice and to the Prosecutor General of the Court of Cassation as far as jurisdiction is concerned. Mr President, will you do so or do you consider it necessary to vote in this House? Decide. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-423.ana.u13	The debate is closed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Stefano, if he will reply. STEFANO, rapporteur. No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since no proposals have been submitted which differ from the conclusions of the Junta, the latter are deemed to have been approved, pursuant to Rule 135-a (8) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-423.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-423.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-423.ana.u16	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, with regard to the violation of the constitutional rule also noted in the report of the Junta, I believe that you, as President, would have an obligation to transmit the acts to the Minister of Justice and to the Prosecutor General of the Court of Cassation, as holder of disciplinary action. However, if you consider it necessary to vote on the Senate Assembly, ask for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-423.ana.u17	Senator Caliendo, I will consider the matter since I do not know the acts in their complexity, also because it seems to me that some interceptions have not been sent. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). But the violation already appears in the record. It's just been said. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right. I have taken note of your request and will consider the matter. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). He'll let us know in the next session.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-423.ana.u18	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-423.ana.u19	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Wednesday 8 April, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) I wish everyone a good Easter. The sitting was closed at 10.14 a.m.
