ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, due to the immediate convening of the Conference of Leaders, I suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 4 p.m. and resumed at 4.35 p.m.) The session is resumed. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u4	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.40).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 19, 657, 711, 810, 846, 847, 851 and 868, in the unified text proposed by the Commission. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the examination of the articles of the unified text proposed by the Commission and the amendments and agendas submitted to them was completed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u11	MONTI (Mixed). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Italy, according to all the indicators of international comparison, has, among others, two plagues: the overcrowding of prisons and widespread corruption. Yet, only a little more than 200 corrupt and corrupters are in Italian prisons. This shows the great importance of continuing with a plurality of means and interventions the fight against corruption. My vote will be in favour, although I would have preferred a text more fully in line with the wording of President Grasso. I would like to add that never, in the fight against corruption, can a measure be final. Among the strategies that I still believe must be valued in Italy in order to promote greater effectiveness in the fight against corruption there is also that, which may seem foreign to the Italian culture, to give an important role to the civic correspondents, as they are sometimes called, or to whistleblowers. Corruption is basically a phenomenon of collusion and the complaint, which a certain Italian cultural tradition is led to see as delation, can make an extremely important contribution to the fight against corruption. All over the world, for another collusive behavior, that of cartels in violation of the interests of consumers, the use of these complaints is now systematically used, ensuring legal benefits to those who make them. Finally, I would like to make a recommendation which also contains a critical emphasis on the Government, and in particular on the President-in-Office of the Council. In governing, a government not only directs the country and conducts policies, but also - whether it wants to or not - transmits values, educates citizens, gives examples. One aspect that I appreciate from President Renzi is that we often stress that to achieve certain objectives, from economic growth to social cohesion, we also need a change in certain aspects of the mentality of Italian citizens. I've always been convinced, too. In particular, greater respect for legality and greater social sanction or stigma must be instilled against those who violate the law to the detriment of the community. This is particularly important with regard to tax evasion and corruption; I believe that we are all convinced in Italy today. From this point of view, I have, in the past, been critical of a political agreement reached at the beginning of this parliamentary term and I would like, with great serenity, to see its connection with the issue of corruption that we are discussing today. I have great respect for the person and personality of President Berlusconi. Moreover, I have repeatedly said publicly that, although the leniency measures are the sole responsibility of the Head of State, I would not have found it inappropriate if they had been or had been taken into account with reference to President Berlusconi. However, in impersonal terms, apart from the person, it has occurred that the President-in-Office of the Council has entered into a fundamental political pact with a person sentenced to third degree for a tax offence and no longer part of Parliament for a legal consequence of that conviction. Everything can change, but the fact remains that the President-in-Office of the Council gave the country the impression that it considered it more important to have support for certain constitutional reforms or an amendment of the electoral law than to convey a strong meaning to fight against evasion and corruption. Here, I believe that in these classrooms we often convince ourselves that constitutional reforms and institutional reforms have a salvific value for a positive evolution of our country. I am convinced, however, that if we were to succeed much more successfully in the fight against evasion and in the fight against corruption, this would really make Italy flourish. I therefore wholeheartedly endorse this measure and hope that there will never again be any signs that, in terms of the actual education of citizens, they may give the impression that they do not put in the very first place the interest of combating evasion and the fight against corruption. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and PD Groups and Senator Napolitano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u14	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all the issues we are dealing with on justice are sensitive issues, which, as soon as they arrive in this House, become particularly complex. There has been a broad debate, which has certainly highlighted some critical issues. Last but not least, there has been a fairly detailed path in this draft law, which has seen the Commission's allocation of justice for a very long time; it has been dealt with for a long time and has certainly dealt with a bit of a tight curve. Let's talk about a topic that unfortunately becomes of interest in Italy, since in our country corruption is still a sign of particular difficulty. There are data on the perception of corruption that put Italy in a ranking position that I would dare to call shameful. The problem of corruption has become increasingly difficult and complex over the years and makes us think almost with a form of nostalgia about the old obsolete system of bribes, a naive body of the crime, when today we are witnessing far more complex corruption phenomena, in which the system itself and the same organization of the normative type almost give the keys of the safe directly to the thief. If we think about the effects of corruption, we realize that these cannot only concern the classrooms of a court or simply the cases of this type: the problem of corruption represents and becomes a clear indicator of the inefficiency of an entire system and has consequences for the same alteration of competition. In fact, in some ways, those who are capable of corrupting can have even more strategic ways than others. We must also think of a whole range of costs that come into play, and that are a consequence of the phenomenon of corruption. There are direct costs, which have also been highlighted by the Court of Auditors itself, but above all indirect economic costs: costs which, in some respects, also increase the amounts of public works resulting from delays in the definition of certain administrative practices. We must all think about the real costs that come to affect the whole Italy system. Costs resulting from the total disvalue that is generated against the same public administration, which precisely leads to a distrust in the institutions, which unfortunately already exists: distrust of politics, of justice and of the public administration. In any case, the real question we have to ask ourselves is whether this measure, which is so much discussed, which will be voted on in this House today, can really be a solution. Minister Orlando himself, speaking of this provision, says that it is useful but not enough. Well, we also agree with this in reality simple but better exemplifying definition of the measure. As a Lega Nord Group and Autonomous Group we certainly welcome some changes made with this bill: well the increases in penalty; well, for example, the introduction of the hypothesis of pecuniary reparation, requiring, therefore, that there be a refreshment compared to what is committed, a return of malt. The hypothesis of fake in the budget in its generality is also good, as it aggravates the regulatory forecast currently contained in the Code. But what we are wondering is whether this measure can actually help to combat corruption. Unfortunately, we are not of that opinion. The bill that we are about to approve is sold as a kind of panacea for the evil of corruption, and this is a serious mistake that your President Renzi is surely making when he comes to speak, amplifying the effects of these regulatory predictions. Actually, it's not a corruption panacea. Corruption is not born only from a prediction; it cannot be mortified and fought only with increases in punishment, because corruption also comes from a way of working. There are evils in Italy that will be difficult to overcome at this point. There is a problem in bureaucracy; a problem that concerns the length of administrative procedures and the laboriousness of the administrative procedures; the cumbersomeness of the legislation and its excessive prolificity. There is a problem concerning justice, which is slow, and sometimes gives the feeling of being ineffective. Nothing has been done in this respect. Nothing has been foreseen in this provision. There has also been no provision for extremely sensitive areas, which unfortunately have also been put to the shame of the news. I am referring to procurement legislation, the legislation on the institution of project financing, which has, unfortunately, sometimes given the opportunity to find unhealthy ways to introduce certain crimes. There are problems concerning the transparency of administrative activity itself. Therefore, we say to ourselves that perhaps, since there has been time to meditate on this provision, one could take advantage of the opportunity to address these issues and go back to that activity of normative prediction contained in the bill. It could very well have been done differently. As the Lega Nord Group and Autonomous Group, we also voted in favour of some articles contained in this bill. However, in the light of the debate and a careful examination of the scope of this measure, especially for what it does not foresee that for what it provides (so, as we said, because of the absence of significant interventions that aim precisely to prevent the emergence of the phenomenon of corruption and not only remedies when corruption has already been accomplished), our Group, which has done the defence of justice, of legality in particular, as well as the return to absolute rigour and to the principles of certainty of punishment its own flag, wonders if indeed this type of measure can be totally shared by us. However, we see a certain contradiction in the behaviour of the Government and the majority. In the measure we are examining, we have foreseen increases in penalties which some Members have pointed out as probably also little systematically included in the legislation itself. It is useless, however, that you speak at this time of increases in punishment, as if you were the paladins, because we must remember that in the meantime, in the last two years, there has been a sequence of measures that have provided benefits for all criminals. We ask ourselves, then, once we anticipate these increases in punishment, what do we do about mandatory house arrests for less than three years? What do we do about the four years of testing? What do we do about early release, suspension of the sentence, non-penalty for crimes with a maximum sentence of up to five years? What do we do about non-penalty for minor crimes? That's what we're wondering. There is no point in selling solutions as if you were all champions of great justice, when we end up with a regulatory and justice system like ours, a system of benefits for criminals. How then do we actually see these rules applied? These are the great questions that we are asking ourselves, and these are the reasons why the entire Group of the North League has already announced its abstention vote on this measure. We stress that ours is an abstention and not a vote against, because our Group does not vote against a measure that provides for increased penalties and leads a battle against corruption. Rather, we abstain because we cannot fully share this method, because it could be done differently and better. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u17	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, Minister, unlike the two honourable Members before me, I have already announced that I am voting against this measure, my own staff and the Group to which I belong: as you know, Mr President - and as I have already said - our own "anarchist" group, of course, has also left a certain freedom of opinion and conscience on this bill. With regard to the reason why we voted against, Mr President, Minister, this bill starts from the wrong assumptions, first of all on the perceived. Minister, you come from my own land, the Lunigiana, and you know that perception is sometimes different from reality. He knows that we have popular beliefs about healing women, who perhaps with the dish try to heal a certain disease: it is the perceived one that then obviously leads to extreme consequences, to the death of the patient. You also know perfectly well that in a "banal" disease such as diabetes, which cures with insulin, an excessive dose, a horse dose brings the patient to death. I have given you these two examples because scientific evidence starts from concrete data and concrete data are the ones on which a legal text must be based. No reference must be made to the perceived: hearing here that the Court of Auditors perceives that corruption in Italy amounts to 60 billion is a fake. It is a fake because it is not true: there is no scientific evidence. The scientific evidence is that in prison there are 227 corrupt and not tens or hundreds of thousands. That in the bill at our examination there is no prevention for the disease of corruption, concussion or false in the budget is demonstrated by the fact that it contains a mere increase of punishment: neither more nor less than to administer a "horse" dose of medication or antibiotic to a diabetic or a patient suffering from an infectious disease, which leads him to feel worse or even to die. That crimes against public administration are hateful as well as extremely harmful from a social, moral and financial point of view is an irrefutable reality. Leading a tough battle against hateful phenomena, which sometimes rage undisturbed, is an improcrastinable necessity. This is not without regard to the way in which concrete action is to be taken to eradicate these phenomena. We believe that what is contained in the measure that we are about to vote against, of course, has a more mediaistic than concrete impact. It seems the edict of 1863, with which Vittorio Emanuele II, to counter the phenomenon of brigandaggio imposed the shooting, the flogging or the public guitar in public square. Therefore, I wanted to present provocatively allegorical or metaphorical amendments, as a parable, in order to make it clear that we cannot play with serious things and work of fantasy, we must return to reality, prevention is always better than cure and that, as the President of the Commission said, Senator Palma, in an intervention that I endorse this morning, we must be careful, because justice can knock on the door of those who consider themselves a summary of justice today and then will understand the words and the famous aforism of Bertolt Brecht, on the persecution of gypsies, communists and Jews. Therefore, in the wake of a populism that does not go beyond its own nose, it has been thought to proceed with a tightening of the penalties, both minimal and maximum and with the relative lengthenings of the prescription times that derive from it. But - alive God! - if a surgeon, once diagnosed with a disease, proposes to operate on the patient after 20 years, we'd say he's crazy. And you're crazy to bring the statute of limitations to twenty, twenty-five or thirty years. In order to deal firmly and quickly with such hateful phenomena, I wonder what is the point of giving a deadline to 20 years, when we would instead need to intervene immediately, without further delay: as I have had the opportunity to say through an amendment, we make special or specific courts, as is done in surgery, in which an orthopedic does not cure gynecological problems and vice versa. Increasing penalties is not, in my opinion, a valid deterrent. The problem is there, it is serious and must therefore be eradicated. We need measures that are strongly and decisively impacting corruption, but immediately because we are already behind schedule. The commercials do not serve and, alas, in this text there are too many, so much so as to constitute a real "Carosello." Let's put the corrupt in jail, we'll scream in different places: right! After we put them in jail, we throw away the key: okay! Let's give them the chance to punish these crimes indefinitely: okay! But where is the part where such crimes are fought? I do not believe that Italians are animated by a spirit of revenge at all costs and, in any case, our Constitution does not foresee it. I believe that they call for the overcoming of certain phenomena contrary to the law, to their own protection. I think they want to see their rights guaranteed and that they would be happier to know that the laws are respected and not that the guilty, who must be punished without if and without but, live long and painful troubles. In the light of what is increasingly apparent in the matter of crimes against the public administration, I believe that we can no longer ignore a priori interventions, without acting only with ex post interventions, such as those under the scrutiny of this House. We must eradicate this misconception by preventing it, if we really want to be able to move on. We have already done so with the Severino law in 2012, and it did nothing; we are doing it again today and it will do nothing. It is necessary to imagine mechanisms capable of preventing upstream the formation of power groups, capable of doing good and bad time in the field of public procurement and beyond. We must also examine all these advice and calls for action in public debates for a fee, such as these producers of wine bottles or books, who continue to sell them to thousands of units. Prevention, therefore, as a comet to be followed in order to limit as much as possible the very possibility of the occurrence of scandals, if it is found to be actually such, as those that more and more often rise to the honors of the news. And instead, once again, the guideline seems to be mere naked and raw repression; repression that certainly has to be - and there would be no more! - but which cannot be used as a bollard. I still believe in law-making so as to limit the very possibility of incurring certain crimes. In fact, the State has the task of suppressing behaviour contrary to its own regulatory system, but also to prevent them. The laws serve not only to punish those who break them, but also to limit behaviour contrary to the law at the outset. The fear, however, ladies and gentlemen, is that, at times, the rule of law is being crossed, pointing to an ethical state, in which the morale of the powerful in turn is the mistress. And then, he puts himself in the sight of this rather than that phenomenon and he pulls straight, moved by the conviction that that is the absolute evil, to be fought by all means. Finally, Mr President, I would like to make a final comment on the fake in the budget. Because this fierceness at the cost of our entrepreneurs, to prevent them from doing their work with Damocles' sword to say: either you are perfect or otherwise we put you in. What will this lead to? The flight, not only of the brains, but also of the companies to the borders of our Alps, to France, Switzerland and Austria with the consequent contraction of the employment of workers. Our levels of unemployment will increase more and more, to an extent. This is what we are going to approve and I believe that those who intervened before me should leave President Silvio Berlusconi alone, who just did not enter anything, being the quote out of place, out of time and out of space.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u18	Colleagues, students and teachers from the Institute of Higher Education are attending the Senate's work. Da Vinci-G. Galilei of Gioia del Colle, in the province of Bari, which we greet and thank for their presence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u21	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the Group of Independents of the Italian Socialist Party and MAIE announces its vote in favour of this measure, but it does not give up any assessment of the problems we have faced, which we believe should also be dealt with by other means and not only by criminal repression. I am referring first of all to the launch and implementation of effective and targeted preventive controls in relation to the places and areas where illegal activity manifests itself with greater dimension and concern. Preventive control allows to intervene before the damage is done and that it has been brought to the extreme completion, vis-à-vis the public administration and, more generally, of the citizenship all, that through the corruptive phenomenon sees to limit the ability of the Government to realize works, to profoundly change and modernize our Country. So we need preventive controls, also having the courage to review the experience of the past, not everything to be deleted: I am referring, in particular, to the activities that the municipal secretaries have carried out in the past; the regional control committees, albeit with their limitations, nevertheless carried out preventive action which, having failed, caused a drift, a Slavina of illegal behavior. Unfortunately, only the criminal judiciary is responsible for control today and we know that when the criminal judiciary moves it means that the damage, unfortunately, has been done. I would also like to draw attention to a number of issues which we have raised as a Group and which have not found a positive response from the Government and the rapporteur. In particular, and I am pleased that Senator Monti has spoken about this, I stress the role of a civic collaboration that must also be extrinsic in public administrations through the denunciation that the public official, in the face of illegal behaviour, in his civic responsibility and not only as a public official, carries out by signaling to the competent authority the fact. From this point of view, I believe that it would have been useful to envisage forms of confidentiality and protection in order not to put him in a situation of discomfort within his working environment. It is therefore necessary to develop more carefully a guarantee against investigations. I tabled an amendment that linked to the confidentiality of the informant and tended to penalise more severely the behaviour of elements that contribute to judicial activity at the various stages and become an instrument of communication to the outside world, also with the aim of creating a negative judgment against citizens who, on the other hand, have no judicial responsibility and who, therefore, should remain outside the action of the judiciary. It is a limit, in my opinion, to having accepted corruption in judicial acts, but not to have accepted concussion in judicial acts as necessary. It is a bit like the fact that, of these two cases of crime, one has a recognition also in the illicit behavior of the magistrate and the other does not, as if the concussory attitude of an operator of justice cannot happen: a sort of presumption of infallibility with respect to a behavior that, instead, and unfortunately, as we note from the chronicles, is recorded. These are issues that make us express a positive but not enthusiastic judgment of this measure, because the increase in penalties is not a guarantee of effectiveness of the action of contrast. We need certainty about the penalties, the speed of the sentences and the trials, so that they can give immediate awareness that those who commit illegal behavior can quickly arrive at a check on their lawfulness or not, and so that if there has been illegal behavior, the sentence of conviction will immediately arrive. I would like to say a few words about this. Although it was necessary to put the fake back into the balance sheet, and the government and the rapporteur did well to introduce the crime again not only with regard to listed companies, perhaps it would have been useful to differentiate between small and medium-sized enterprises. There is not only a question of principle (I believe that it should apply to everyone, large and small), but there is a question of quantity that becomes a substantial element, because the damage done by a small entrepreneur to the community is very limited, at least in general terms, whereas large companies, for the most part unlisted, when they act in an illegal way cause enormous damage to the community, to the transparency and competition of our economy. So a different expiry of this issue would have been more useful. Finally, Mr President, Minister, it would probably be appropriate to draw up explicit criteria for assessing fraud in the budget and related acts, so as not to leave not so much to the magistrate as to the expert who draws up the technical element the arbitrariness that we know to be within these budgetary problems. Frankly, this would have given greater certainty of behavior to citizens and also to the authority called upon to decide. In conclusion, Mr President, Minister, I believe that we are taking a step forward today. I am a reformist and I am convinced that it is worth going one step after another, but having in the background a general principle that has been put to the test by our legal system; increasing the penalties, increasing the resulting prescription, increasing the prescription sic et simpliciter is not a good response to the judicial problems of our country. We should strengthen the apparatus, quickly arrive at the sentences, arrive at certain and non-bunivocal sentences depending on the expert or the jury, while remaining firm the constitutional principle of the free discretion of the magistrate according to the assessment of the facts and the related rules. [[Applause from Senator Silvestro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u24	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, at last we come to the end of a path that has been extremely troubled; a path concerning a subject that may have deserved a more homogeneous and unified reflection. Perhaps that draft law which we had been debating in the Committee on Justice since the beginning of this parliamentary term would have deserved to give rise to a wide-ranging debate, such as the one we had, but also an all-inclusive one; on the other hand, the draft law under consideration has all been dismembered. Some elements have remained, because in fact the prescription has been removed, but then it has merged into the text that comes from the House and in which it would appear that it is actually present in the terms in which it was provided by the bill that we had here in question. There has remained the raising of penalties, which has become the central nucleus of the whole part concerning crimes against public administration; there has also remained the part that would also be of encouragement, bearing the positive vision, that of industrious repentance and pecuniary reparation: a sort of incentive to re-educate those who put themselves in these crimes of corruption, a sort of demonstration of his good will. It is true that the plea was also introduced, subject to the return of the profit price. This is a good thing, but we would have preferred it not only to be referred to crimes committed against public administration, but also to be generalised to a question of constitutionality and justice, given that if the principle of reeducation is to be passed, perhaps this principle must be passed on to everyone. The transparency and circulation of information is also important, for which, in Articles 6 and 7, the National Anti-Corruption Authority is involved, which undoubtedly becomes a central hub and certainly is increasingly, month after month, burdened with responsibility. However, sometimes this can also be dangerous, because it can move on to a single joint what must instead be a shared responsibility. As I said yesterday, the fake part in the budget is certainly the strongest and the one that contains the most important changes. Let's forget about the changes we were talking about earlier about the tightening of penalties; the speech of the rapporteur yesterday and this morning was very correct also in the lexical clarification, however it does not solve an important aspect and also recalled in a article of today's evening Corriere. There are also a number of significant examples, such as material facts that are relevant to information, which is perhaps also linked to a translation from English, which surely shifts the problem from a broader discourse (which also includes evaluations) to aspects that are, in fact, material facts, thus narrowing the scope. Beyond the very correct remarks made by Senator D'Ascola (who perhaps also spoke for his personal experience as a lawyer), in this case we would have liked the article to be different because we believe that the legislator is responsible for giving a certain and clear address. We therefore wanted to give a definition of "information" which included everything and to which the rapporteur, however, confirmed in his reply all the concern that led us to amend the article. He has admitted that we are producing a rule here that will require much more interpretation than we think should be done today, especially in this area. It is clear that a cassationist lawyer can have a sort of pavlovian reflection in front of the choice between a rule that is clearer and another that, instead, opens to the triumph of the discussion in cassation (which, however, often is the one in which the privileged customers gather). On the other hand, we would have liked a clear and clear indication to be given of this aspect and, as legislators, we would have taken responsibility not to refer to the courtrooms, to the ability of good lawyers or to the responsibility of the judges what we believe should have been a certainty and a clarity, also because of the importance of the case of the forgery in the budget. Anyone who wants - and I do not waste time calling him back - can also go to this afternoon's online newspapers to see how many cases there are of resounding situations in which the fake in the budget has emerged precisely in relation to assessments and estimates. This aspect is relevant but it will not prevent us, in any case, from voting positively on the overall nature of this bill, although we abstained on all the articles concerning false in the budget; it will not prevent us from voting positively on this draft law which, however, certainly does not contain the overall approach that we, as Senate and as legislators, would have wished to give, even in relation to what was said before, during the general discussion, and also by Senator Monti at the beginning. I say this without wanting to give a ritual speech, but making a very concrete speech and hoping that someone will listen to me (I would like to try to give the final results of the games to see if anyone realizes that I am not talking about the theme). However, it remains a consideration not of rite, but concrete and critical, also recalled by the speech of Senator Finocchiaro: it is really important that, through the recovery of the culture of shame, there is really that sense of responsibility for which everyone, as an individual, represents an example of the fact that it is better to choose legality rather than another road, the more comfortable, faster one, that leads to an immediate enrichment and power. This responsibility is of the individual, at all levels, because corruption can be of minor magnitude only because the possibility of corrupting and being corrupted is of minor magnitude or the possibility of falsifying is of minor magnitude; but, in reality, if it were in a position to corrupt for greater entities, perhaps the person who did it for small entities would be available. It is a willingness that is gradually created, in the lack of sense of shame, in the lack of shame to appear, then, in front of others with the stain of having corrupted and having given a negative example. In an exponential way it is all the more important the more people are publicly exposed and the greater the responsibility that people assume. The story not of these two years, but of decades is instead a chronicle of public characters that have seriously missed. The severity of their behavior is all the stronger as they have become a consolidated example of how it is, all in all, not so frequently sanctionable, not so socially sanctionable their behavior. That's what makes me feel the most. In a culture of shame there are social exclusion mechanisms which should also lead to the fight against organised crime and not only corruption. It is that social sanction that should cause everyone to wish not to associate with those who have been corrupted, at least not to attend them publicly, not to give them a public credit. To this I would add that we do not believe that the whole system of tightening up the penalties in fact is the final piece of road. We believe that it is a small piece of road and, perhaps, the one no longer decisive in a much wider path that must be that of an awareness in all administrative procedures that should lead to virtuous behaviors relative to transparency, correctness, data sharing and not only for the presence of someone who controls from above. I see the Deputy Minister looking at me with a skeptical look. I hope, on the contrary, that these words, which are not words of vain rhetoric, but of those who first believe in the power of education and example, call every individual to his own conscience and individual responsibility. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX and Mixed-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u27	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) My group will vote for this legislation with conviction, although it considers it a stage in other speeches, of which I shall speak at the end of my speech. It is a bill that moves in the logic of strengthening the sanctioning aspect and the ancillary penalties. We are looking at a tightening of the penalties and, perhaps, a little less at the attitudes of preventing corruption, which would also deserve a more detailed analysis and which I hope the Government will put in place. We are talking about an increase in the effectiveness of ancillary penalties, the prohibition of concluding contracts with the public administration, except in order to obtain public service services. This suspension may not exceed five years, while before it was three years. The minimum sentence resulting in the termination of the employment or employment relationship, already provided for in Article 32-d of the Criminal Code in three years, is reduced to two. Among the ancillary penalties, the suspension of the exercise of the profession and of an art is a significant fact. It deprives the condemned of the ability to exercise the same profession during the suspension. They are penalties which affect the freedom of professional exercise but which in this case, yes, express the sanction and deterrent against the professional public. This suspension of the exercise of the profession and of an art may not last less than three months or more than three years. These sanctions are considerably higher than in the past. For the offence of peculatus we predict the considerable increase of the edittal penalty and, in the case of corruption for an act contrary to the duties of offices, instead of raising the only edittal penalty we have intervened on the lowest one: from four to eight years we pass from six to ten years, so much so that we have been forced, having intervened too much or in a very convinced way on the increase of the minimum of the edittal penalty, to predict the increase of the benefits of law, equal to two thirds of the penalty in case you want to collaborate. It was realized that only one third of the penalty was paid in order to induce the person to aspire to any legal benefits that could allow him to suspend the sentence. In the concussion we have foreseen the very important equivalence between the public officer and the public service officer because in fact it does not make sense to punish only the first, the public officer, when the same behavior can also be put in place by a public service dealer. The penalty has increased from six to twelve years. An important principle, which I fully agree with, is the new financial repair institute. In essence, the sentence of conviction for certain types of crime against the public administration is ordered to pay a sum equal to the amount of what was wrongly received. This is an epochal turning point in the reform of crimes against public administration. Another important reform is the settlement of the penalty only in the case of the return of the body of the crime, i.e. the object of the corruption. At the same time, the suspended sentence is subject to payment of an amount equivalent to the profit of the offence. So, not only plea but also parole of the sentence. In addition, the prosecutor carries out supervision and prosecution for corruption should immediately inform the anti-corruption authority. Therefore, a synergy is established between new identified bodies. As regards procurement stations, there is an obligation to transmit to the Anti-Bribery Authority a series of useful information to verify the transparency of procurement procedures. And the administrative court itself, when deciding on disputes relating to public works or public procurement, is required to transmit to the Committee on the transparency of public procurement the anomalies it sees in the procedures. The reform, therefore, begins to combine a synergy of collaboration between bodies that collectively can interfere and become nervous in the need for greater transparency in the work of the public administration, the provision of public services and the use of public money as compensation for the activities carried out in the interest of the public administration for contracts. As for the Mafia there is a substantial tightening of the penalties. Up to twenty-six years of imprisonment and participation in a mob association is increased from ten to fifteen years while before the penalty went from a minimum of seven years to a maximum of twelve. It is a system that works, that asks us the country at a time when recent and less recent episodes of corruption have upset the common feeling of Italians. And we're doing our part. Mr President, Minister - which I hope you will listen to me - we must deal with another aspect. We are very much in favour of this text, although we have also stressed the need to take action on procedures to prevent corruption. I am referring to the provision of corruption, the creation of black funds, more controls on tenders, billings, the spending dynamics of buyers and contractors. At the same time, we believe that this passage can only be the first of a great reform of justice that we await here, at the Senate, in relation to the issues of prescription and interception. Minister, you committed yourself, when the text on limitation was voted on with our abstention, to Modulating new proposals on this issue. We await you with interest because we call you - and you will certainly be diligent about this - to respect Article 111 of the Constitution for the right process. It takes reasonable time, those reasonable times set by our Constitution, which in Article 111 states that in criminal proceedings the law ensures that the person accused of crime is as soon as possible confidentially informed of the nature and reasons of the charge. Therefore, already the need to inform, as soon as possible, the person investigated or accused gives the meaning of the Constitution, that is, the brevity and speed not only of the processes but also of the investigations, those investigations that are sometimes too long and determine 60% of cases of limitation of the trials. We also expect this because we want to see carefully what the final result of this reform will be. In fact, we are not convinced that the issue of the excessive anomaly of prescriptions is only resolved by the expansion of prescription times. This is not, in our opinion, the exclusive measure, it is not the only right measure. We would love to hear more about the limitation of the procedural stages, so that we can incardinate the times of justice in matters and issues that are closed in certain periods of time. Too long investigations, too long trials, too long prescription. We must prevent the citizen from being at the mercy of investigations or trials that last 20 years for two orders of reasons: first of all, to prevent justice from apologizing to the citizen after 20 years for being wrong and therefore to prevent a person who after 20 years has changed considerably and is different from the time he committed the crime from being subject to criminal sanctions and a penalty. He is another person, who may have been part of society, has a family, children and expectations and has given what he had to give to society. Another subject, Minister: we expect from you - and we all expect it - a snapshot on the subject of interceptions. The time has come to deal with this subject, without any desire to put the gag on information and the press. I believe that the facts of these days, the facts of previous months and the facts of previous years induce the political class to put order not so much to the use of interceptions as a means of ascertaining the truth, but as a means of protecting the privacy of so many decent people, who find themselves slap on the front page without being investigated, without criminal relevance, with a very high price that pays in terms of the credibility and dignity of their own person. Our civilization, the civilization of our right and the civilization of our country are at stake. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u30	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, let us say immediately how we will vote on this measure: we will vote against it; (this is not a yellow one). Mr President, let me just say a few words about what happened today. Today we have learned that some Senators of the 5 Star Movement Group have been the subject of a report to the Public Prosecutor. I would simply like to point out that, if this is an intimidation that is being done against the Group, no one will ever be able to do that. I say it with great calmness. Let me say this with great calmness. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). In fact, you will get a worse and opposite effect! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let your group leader speak, Senator Airola. CIOFFI (M5S). And listen, sometimes, because maybe these things are strange, since they come from representatives of all the parliamentary groups, of majority and opposition, true or presumed. Having said that, remembering that, if it were - but I think it will never happen - to go to jail to defend the interests of the citizens, we would always be ready because we would not be afraid of anything. But let's get back to the measure. This is an indispensable premise today. I would like to begin this brief speech by reading the words of a man who has been an important person in this Republic, to whom reference is often made. I read his words and then we'll say who he is: Corruption is an enemy of the Republic. I repeat: "Bribery is an enemy of the Republic. The corrupt must be struck without any extenuating, without any mercy. Giving them solidarity for reasons of friendship or party means becoming accomplices to these corrupt. We must be worthy of the Italian people. He is not worthy of this people who performs acts of dishonesty and must be struck without any consideration. Woe if someone, out of friendship or party solidarity, should support these corrupt and defend them. In this case, party friendship becomes complicity and omerty. The ban must be given to these dishonest and corrupt, who offend the Italian people, offending the millions and millions of Italians who, in order to live honestly, impose serious sacrifices on themselves and their families. So the law is relentless and inflexible against the protagonists of these scandals, which give a truly degrading example to the Italian people. These are the words of Sandro Pertini, a President of this Republic worthy of this name. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Well, what we note in this measure is that this is yet another missed opportunity, which has been awaited for two years, perhaps a consciously lost opportunity because there is no concrete and profound measures for the prevention of crimes against public administration. We are not executed, as sometimes someone would like us to paint. That is why we proposed not only measures to punish the corrupt, but also measures to prevent the phenomenon, such as the introduction of the provocative agent. Whatever Senator Caliendo says - I take back some words he said - there is a real epidemic of corruption here. We are faced with an epidemic, which does not cure with aspirin, but with the accept (in a metaphorical sense, of course; God forbid I want to attribute a different meaning to him: it is only a metaphor, I want to make it clear). For example, we could, indeed, have - since we would have done so - modified what was already approved in December on self-recycling. We have opposed that measure. We did not want to change it; we approved it in December: why did we not modify it? We want to remember that, when we introduced self-recycling, we predicted penalties ranging from two to eight years, but the crime is not such when the money (of which we must understand the origin) is destined for personal enjoyment. So if I have money coming from something and buying a home for personal use, it's not self-laundering. This is at least a singular rule; perhaps we had to take action on what was approved. Why can we not intervene on a measure that has just been introduced by this majority and this government, making it a serious matter? We could also have increased the penalties for the political-mafia electoral exchange (416-b); they were reduced a short time ago in this House. Why not? Why have we just approved the rules? But if we did something wrong, we could make up for a mistake: I repeat, why didn't we do it? Our Group has thought and rethought about the final position to be adopted, precisely in the light of the fact that this is a very important rule for all citizens. We would like to thank the Commissioners of our Group for the great work they have done in the Justice Commission. Everyone must know that our spokesmen have given their best, since we entered here until today, to bring the demands of the 5 Star Movement and the citizens to the Commission and to this House. But, like the people, we cannot accept compromises downwards, because that is what others do: they accept compromises downwards. But compromise, if it's a word that would make sense and could be important, either it's high or it's not [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Otherwise, we'll never get out of here alive. We will never come out alive and we will never really do the people's interests if we do not begin to understand that the word compromise is beautiful if it is true, if that compromise is high, like the one that led the constituent Fathers to write the Constitution: that was an honorable compromise [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and not the filth that has become in this Republic. Do we want to get to do something really serious? We eliminate the compromise to the bottom and we go towards a compromise to the upside, high, strong, otherwise it doesn't make sense ours and yours to be in here. We are ready to express this vote with our strong backs, of those who have asked their people, indeed of the citizens who have freely entered our portal, what they think. We asked them, and they told us to vote no, and they are the ones we are here to represent. Are we in a representative democracy? Do we represent the citizens? Let's ask the citizens what they think. That's what we have to do. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] If you ask citizens, citizens study much more than we think, because we are not what we used to be called intelligence. No, please don't. Citizens must study and, studying, inform and express their thoughts conscientiously. We don't think we're above the citizens, otherwise we're done. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The title is not enough to make a good anti-corruption law. Pertini's words are very clear and very current; therefore, our vow can only be contrary, but, truly, I urge you to love yourselves: love yourselves and love the people you say you represent. Sometimes we do something in full and concrete interest. We can't settle for half of it. Will you ever be able to do a healthy thing? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u31	I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Scientifico (scientific high school) Maria Luigia in Parma, who are following our works. Welcome to the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u34	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà Group XVII Legislatura believes that corruption is a cancer of democracy because it changes trade relations between companies, altering the conditio and adversely affecting free competition. Our Group will, however, have to vote against this measure and I explain why. I hear many times about the Constitution and its principles, but I would like many to read the splendid pages of the minutes of the constituent Assembly. The criminal penalty is the extreme ratio; our democracy is based on the proper functioning of the system of controls (administrative checks, controls concerning the institutions). Mr Minister, ours is also a bet, trusting that you do not understand from this that a correction is necessary. (17.46) (Follows CALIENDO). We could also welcome the fact that this branch of Parliament has almost voted in favour of some of our amendments: six amendments have been adopted, others for a few votes - as soon as there was freedom of conscience - have not passed. I'm used to always saying what I think, so I don't accept those who teach moralistic lessons when it comes to governments. One of the mistakes that was made in the last legislature dates back to 2011, when Forza Italia did not claim to go to the elections and a technical government was formed, despite Berlusconi had already had a first conviction. So it is easy to be a moralist today. I would like to refer to three more aspects. Minister, the increase in penalties transforms the system of justice in our country, because we move from a justice of ascertainment of responsibility to a justice of the precautionary measure. You know very well that we had to table the amendments the day before the House approved the prescription reform, so only you can make this correction. In fact, the increase in penalties - concerning not only the maximum but also the minimum penalties - does not only affect the precautionary measure, but also a prescription that has no end. If we really wanted to combat corruption, we needed to introduce preventive measures. Thank God, however, thanks to Forza Italia, at least four preventive measures - contained within our amendments - have been approved. Senator Lumia, if I am distracted by the Minister, I cannot tell him what our hope is, an Italian hope, demonstrated by the vote in the Chamber on certain amendments, as well as by the vote expressed in the online consultation organised by the 5 Star Movement. When we are faced with penalties that no longer correspond to what is the implant of the balance of the sanctioning system, there is no possibility of having deterrents. Instead, it will happen that, through the precautionary measures, the minutes of the interceptions will be announced, which is the barbarity that we are witnessing these days. Minister, when will you reform the wiretapping system, which has become something shameful? I did not say that today: I said it in the Chamber, in the House of Deputies, when you, Minister, were responsible for the Democratic Party for Justice. On that occasion I said that all those who are intercepted and who are not involved in crime should be kept out. With these rules, however, you have exaggeratedly increased a negative system. I read today what Nordio wrote in the newspaper "The Messenger": you know better than I do, Mr President, that the fight against terrorism and the mafia in this country we did without interceptions and with no special rules. Falcone did the great trial to the Mafia following the path of money and not with the interceptions. These were the rules, which were changed. Once, in the debates between lawyers, it was said that any category wants the criminal penalty, as a defense of its own position. We replied that this was wrong, because the criminal penalty must concern only a few facts and, in order to be effective, must be imposed in a short time. Minister, you told Parliament, the Senate, that in crimes against the public administration the prescription affects 3% of cases. I had a lot of confidence in that fact, but we have to go see how it is composed, how often for an acquitted defendant at first instance the appeal has not been celebrated, what has been prescribed and what procedures have been prescribed during the preliminary investigation period. I hear things that are not obnoxious, that do not take into account the reality of our country and a stressed judicial system. How can I vote on a law which, in addition to betraying constitutional principles in this respect, introduces certain aspects that are truly contrary to the Constitution. I must not remind you, Minister, of the words of Mr Togliatti and Mr Giovanni Leone at the constituent assembly. What does the judge have to do? It must ascertain the responsibility and not create the norm, it must not be the referee of the lawful and the unlawful, identifying what is the wrong because in this rule on the false in the budget there is no one. On this too, Minister, instead of opposing, with a series of obstructive amendments, we have merely tabled amendments on the reduction of the minimum penalty, leaving you with the political responsibility to rebalance maximum sentences with limitation periods. We had proposed a few amendments on the forgery in the budget, but they were intended to make that rule constitutional, which is not only unconstitutional because it leaves interpretation to the judge. I don't say that, but the Constitutional Court has been saying that since 1989. We cannot fool ourselves and talk about material facts that are relevant, as if they were something that is outside, saying that they are important: even saying that means setting a limit between material facts that are relevant and those of minor importance. Finally, how can one think that the fight against corruption is done through special rules and through the conditional plea to the repayment of sums? At a time of economic crisis, you, Minister, think more about returning profit to the public administration than to the poor Christ, to whom the pension is taken, or to the tax evader, who returns nothing to the State. We have not said that the rule is not good, we have said: let us make it constitutional, so that it applies to both the corrupt and the perpetrators of other crimes. And I'm going to the conclusion. If these are the constitutional principles, I wonder, Minister, why the way has been chosen not to reach an agreement. Yet his amendment on the subject of fake in the budget rightly contained all the elements for proper action to combat corruption. Instead, he changed it, with a further amendment. I know it wasn't your fault. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator Caliendo. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). That it was the fault of a series of judicialist cultures, that instead of remembering what the principles of the Constitution were, they think that through the increase of the penalty they have put their conscience in place. The increase in punishment we had already introduced in 2012, but nothing has failed. In two years, in 2017 (in hopes that the President of the Council will really want to go to the elections in 2018), we will check whether these rules will have given better results or even have aggravated the situation of corruption in our country. For these reasons, the Forza Italia Group will vote against this measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u37	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, shortly after two years of work in the Commission and in this House, we will be adopting very important anti-corruption rules at first reading. A short time ago, Senator Schifani well explained the content of a large part of the measure, of which I will therefore mention only two rules: the lengthening of the time limit and the re-introduction of false into the budget. These are rules that were already present in our order and that in the recent past were modified or abolished, with very negative effects on justice. We're gonna stay. Restoring them. Some have argued that prescription and false in the budget would have no relation to corruption, while exactly the opposite is true. The short prescription often does not allow to punish the corrupters and the corrupt, who today operate with very sophisticated techniques and means, with triangulations so thin and camouflaged as to make necessary very long and complex investigations. Similar considerations apply to the fake in the budget, which is provided for almost in all states of law. The counterfeiting of the budget, in addition to making the market opaque, is also the technical means used to build up the black funds, which are necessary to fuel corruption. We are not talking so much about the material error of the accountant who prepares the balance sheet of a small company, but about the arson artifice that serves in companies to constitute a hidden treasure, ready for a thousand uses. And let's be clear: without black funds corruption becomes very difficult and often impossible. These two rules would be sufficient to open a glimmer of light in the very hard war against corruption and to deserve the vote of those who, like the 5 Star Movement, just stated that they will do otherwise, although they have agreed in the Commission many decisive points of the measure. I understand this method of relying on surveys, but I must remind my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement that Parliament is different from their polls. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senators Martelli and Lucidi]] But there is more to be said. The regeneration of the Anti-Corruption Authority and the serious and concrete address given to it by President Cantone. [[Comments from the M5S Group. Call the president back.]] The approval of self-recycling, which punishes subterfuge... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u38	Let the surgery complete, don't interrupt. You had the right to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u39	AIROLA (M5S). Take the documents to the prosecutor's office, Mr President, and open a nice file as it is in your style! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Zanda, please. ZANDA (PD). Mr. President, may I continue? The approval of the crime of autocycling that punishes subterfuges aimed at making the use of resources from corruption unrecognizable. I also recall the recent approval, by a very large majority, with the right and correct vote of the 5 Star Movement, of a large body of environmental crimes, which heals a serious deficiency in our criminal legislation. These are all rules awaited by many lustres, which clearly indicate the politics of Parliament and the Government. Nevertheless, the underlying mood and feeling that emerged in our debate indicate that all the work done over the past year, although positive, as much as necessary, is not yet enough. We know that in Italy corruption and collusion, by size, rooting and mode of exercise, have taken the form of a hydra with a thousand heads, which are cut more, the more they grow. Every day we learn with shame the outcome of new investigations, which affect all branches of economic, social and political life in the country, and involve businesses, public administration and politics, including members of my party. Corruption also reaches the surface of men of the Forces of Order, the judiciary and the Church. In the face of such a deep and widespread pollution, Parliament cannot fail to know that good laws are not enough, that to beat corruption we must reach the heart of the disease and understand the causes and reasons that have made such a vast practice possible. Alongside the moral crisis that affects so much of society, there is the progressive, profound weakening of the State. Over the last few decades, our state has broken into all its main structures, from constitutional powers to large public services, from the grid of autonomy to the whole of public administration. Without a state that functions on the basis of clear rules, that ensures compliance with procedures, that checks, controls and sanctions, the least that can happen is the expansion of corruption, crime, evasion and tax avoidance. Today we have to say that in order to eradicate corruption, in addition to the action of justice, we need the daily commitment of all the forces of the State; we need a public environment that does not facilitate it but, on the contrary, contrasts it by taking away the water in which it splashes. If the forces of the State do not operate in a solid spirit of legality, it is very difficult for this spirit to be passed on to citizens and economic forces. The direction of the realization of the great public works was entrusted to engineer Incalza in 2001 by Minister Lunardi. It does not note, here, that already then Incalza had been involved in judicial affairs; instead, it notes that, except for the brief parenthesis of Minister Di Pietro, Incalza has maintained uninterruptedly that responsibility until a few weeks ago, that is, for fifteen years. This is the political crux. Corruption and collusion are won primarily by supervision, control, preventive action by the public administration and its technical bodies. In the first decades of the post-war period, the reconstruction and modernization of our country were also possible for the contribution and the high professionalism of many offices of civil genius and ANAS, for the enlightened advice of the Higher Council of Public Works. We must ask ourselves why so much technical patrimony has gone By dissolving. If, by ineptitude or malice, the first and essential bulwark against corruption, that of public administration, fails, the battle is already lost. The judiciary, even the strictest and most efficient, will never be able to do it alone. The political authority's control should have been matched by an improper mandate, such as that of Incalza. Similar considerations can be made about the disastrous effects of the target law. Wanted in 2001 to speed up major public works, in fourteen years it completed only 8% of the planned works and recorded an increase in costs of 40%. Since 2003 the dramatic effects of a law that makes the manufacturing company the dominus of design and works management have been denounced without any results. It is this incredible concentration of powers in the hands of a bearer of his own economic interests that constitutes a propitious ground for any degeneration. How can one think that, under similar laws, projects are not turned to the business and economic interest of the company and controls are not domesticated for the same purposes? Wrong laws, made available to hungry hands, cannot fail to produce serious illegal effects. Today Italy shows that it wants to go back up the slope. The GDP forecasts have gone from the minus sign to the plus sign: it's a small signal, but we have to catch it. The price of oil, the dollar-euro ratio and the reduced spread are all factors that must push us to do more and to seize opportunities that have not been manifested for at least seven years. In this context, the fight against corruption and tax evasion must be an absolute national priority. Fighting corruption is primarily an ethical imperative, but it is also an essential condition to promote recovery, attract investment, restore strength to the market. The commitment of the Senators of the Democratic Party will not end with the approval of the draft law under consideration, with this afternoon's vote: we know that it is very useful, but we also know that it is not enough. We want to contribute to clarity and transparency on such a difficult stage in our history and we do so with two specific political commitments. Firstly, the Democratic Party in the Senate takes as its absolute priority the approval of the new procurement code, which is being examined by the Commission today, and now indicates its willingness to make it not only a useful tool for the development of our economy, but also an essential step in the fight against corruption. The aim is to achieve an efficient set-up of public contract legislation and to strengthen the authorities and institutions responsible for monitoring and protecting competition in public procurement. Secondly, in the past months, the Senators of the Democratic Party have presented a bill for the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry into ANAS, but the results of the investigations that are emerging lead to the extension of the initiative. In the coming days we will therefore propose the establishment of a Commission of inquiry into public procurement and corruption and collusion. Parliament must be very careful not to overlap with the work of the judiciary, but it has a duty to evaluate the corruptive facts together with their interconnections with the economy, business, finance, crime - including international -, politics, institutions and public administration. The corrupting bubbon is so complex and intertwined with the facts of the political, economic and social life of the country that it obliges us to an analysis of truth and all the consequent assumptions of political responsibility. We will deal with this with the most incisive instrument that the Constitution and our Regulations make available to us. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u40	Before we proceed to the final vote, I warn you that the rapporteur has tabled a proposal for coordination which is being distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator D'ascola, if you will explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u41	Mr President, this is a very limited illustration. We have approved Amendment 6,300, signed by Senator Lo Giudice, who introduces a whole series of provisions on the conditional suspension of the sentence with reference to Article 165 of the Criminal Code. In view of the specific nature of the modifying issue, which is, to say the least, complementary to the text of Article 165, the rapporteur believes that perhaps this amendment should find a specific allocation in an autonomous article of this law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u42	Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by the rapporteur. It's approved. We shall therefore proceed to the final vote. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the unified text of the draft law no. 19, 657, 711, 810, 846, 847, 851 and 868, as amended, with the following title: Provisions on crimes against public administration, mafia-type and false associations in the budget (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups]] He asked the Minister of Justice Orlando to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u43	Mr President, I am only speaking to thank the President, the Justice Commission and all the senators who have contributed - in my opinion - to improving the measure, beyond the final judgment they then expressed on it. I would also, of course, like to thank the Commission's offices which supported this work. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-SEL groups and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u46	BERTUZZI (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out that I voted in favour, but the record was not included. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u47	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current calendar. At today's sitting, at the end of the draft law on corruption, reports will be carried out on the connected in the matter of reorganisation of public administrations and on the draft law on personal protective measures. Tomorrow's sitting will be limited to the discussion of the Junta's proposal for elections and parliamentary immunity on the authorisation to proceed against former Minister Matteoli. Next week's work will resume at 11 a.m. on Wednesday 8 April, following the discussion of the related draft law on public administrations. For this measure, the deadline for tabling amendments was set at 1 p.m. on the same day. The timetable therefore provides for the examination of ratifications of international agreements, the follow-up of the bill containing personal protective measures, the examination of the related bill in the field of agriculture and, to follow, the other arguments already indicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u50	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, as far as your powers are concerned and as far as the public administration are concerned (the draft law No 1577), I would ask you, if possible, to postpone, at least 24 hours, the deadline for tabling amendments to the House or, in any case, to set a time limit allowing Wednesday to be exceeded or to use it in full. We are asking for this from an entirely collaborative and not other perspective, given that the link has been extensively modified during the work in the Commission. If it had been approved in its original form, the amendments could be retabled as they were, since they were related. On the other hand, since there has been a substantial change in many parts, we ask for a more reasonable time, also considering that on Saturday, Sunday and Monday the offices will be closed, as from communications received from the Police Department, and the possibility of access to the offices for Easter holidays will be limited. We therefore call for the deadline to be postponed to Thursday morning, 9 a.m. or Wednesday, but at a time when we can make maximum use of the day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u51	Unfortunately, the deadline for tabling amendments cannot be put to the vote, as you know. We have assessed this deadline, so much so that it has been postponed until 1 p.m. on Wednesday, which is the same day on which the work of this House is resumed, and then we can proceed, possibly having completed everything we need, to the debate. That's the point.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u52	Mr President, if you will allow me, this is not a decree-law, but a draft law of a complexity that you yourself will also be able to understand from the work done. He's been in the Senate for six months, even longer, since July. Without making a question of principle, for a simple reason of agility in the amending phase, I would ask you, within the framework of your powers within the Presidency Council, to postpone the deadline for tabling amendments by 18 or 24 hours further. Mr President, we are asking for a non-exaggerate postponement from a collaborative perspective.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u53	Let us keep the time limit fixed, which we shall, if necessary, re-evaluate when work is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u56	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, the decision remains in your assessment and you have already concluded on the point, but I would like to say that President Crimi's request for a very complex and profoundly changed measure by the Commission, so much so that the amendments tabled there, even keeping the same subject matter, must refer to a different text. It is a request, therefore, that I allow myself to be quietly supported, because it is indeed a complicated measure and, given the climate in which the work of the Commission took place, until the last sitting today, and even with all due respect for its decisions, I would say that, if it were possible to reconsider the decision taken, it would be evaluated and written in a climate of cooperation and not obstruction on the part of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u59	BONFRISCO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, on this subject I would like to add a few comments to those made by my fellow Members and, in a very authoritative way, by President Finocchiaro. With a long work the Budget Commission has hesitated, with its opinions, the life or death of certain amendments. I therefore believe that it is the right of the parliamentary groups to be able to review, also in the light of the opinions of the Budget Commission, a new wording of the texts for this House, taking into account the results of the work of the Commission on the substance and of the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u60	In view of the Easter holidays, I understand that this is the main point. The time for tabling amendments, from today to 8 April, is a week which, in a natural view of the progress of the work, is a reasonable time frame. However, given what has been represented so far, rather than at 1 p.m., the deadline for tabling amendments is postponed to 6 p.m. on the same day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, in connection with the proceedings initiated on the complaint of some senators by the prosecutor of the Republic to the ordinary court of Rome on the events that occurred at the afternoon session of 5 November 2014 in the Senate Chamber, in which they were called to testify some senators, including two quaestors senators, I considered, acquired the unanimous warning of the group leaders, vice presidents and quaestors, to write to the prosecutor of the Republic to affirm the absolute defect of jurisdiction of the ordinary judiciary on the behaviour of senators in the exercise of their constitutionally guaranteed duties and prerogatives [[Applause from the PD, Misto-SEL and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] ; more so when these conducts have already been definitively qualified by the President and assessed by the Presidency Council, pursuant to Rule 67 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure. This is also in the light of the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 379 of 1996, according to which the activity carried out by the members of the Chambers cannot be the subject of inquisitive activities of the prosecutor or of judicial investigation. I therefore asked the prosecutor that the proceedings and the summons of witnesses should not be followed up further. This issue will also be dealt with by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities for assessments of competence. It was due in accordance with the decisions of the meeting. [[Applause from the PD, Misto-SEL and FI-PdL XVII Groups]] AIROLA (M5S). Pagliacci! (Exchange of apostrophes between the Senators of the PD Group and the Senators of the M5S Group).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u62	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1577. The rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur. [[Brusio. Senator Airola's comments. Protests from the PD Group.]] Allow Senator Pagliari to do his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard many times over this period: reform of public administration? Wouldn't the Premier think he could succeed in the one where illustrious Presidents and Ministers such as Massimo Severo Giannini didn't succeed? It's a useless effort. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I only ask one thing, if it is possible for those who do not want to listen to to to get away from this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u64	I would like to ask colleagues who wish to continue to talk about sitting outside the Chamber so that Senator Pagliari can carry out the report in peace and quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u65	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. True is the historical reference, and legitimate is the pessimism of reason. The optimism of the will, however, is an indispensable duty for politics, for Parliament and for the government. The responsibility of politics is to solve the real problems, not to give up and to choose not tactically but strategically, putting our face on them, proposing real solutions, even if difficult and uncomfortable, otherwise the effort would be useless and facade. All this presupposes that there is a real need to be met, a real issue. Well, why public administration reform? Everything today says, with absolute evidence, that for public administration it is not enough to turn the page but it is necessary to change the book. Why? For corruption? Of course. But not only that. And I would like to say not as a priority. There is a public administration experienced as an obstacle, there is a legality seen as a useless harp, there are businesses and private individuals who remain unanswered and suffer unnecessary delays and brakes in their activities. All this highlights the hiatus between the material Constitution and the formal Constitution, Articles 97 and 98 of the Constitution, which postulate the good performance, impartiality and exclusive service of the nation. Public administration, in fact, is too often, even in view of the constitutional value of loyal collaboration, a body of its own, a counter-power tendency brought to go further, while it must be a power that remains within its sphere. This fact, without making any grass a bundle, seems, unfortunately, undeniable. What causes? Many: weakness of politics, technical deficit of the system, logic of counterpower, crisis of the system, ineffectiveness of controls, unnatural relations between politics and administration, responsibilities such as optional, elephant legislation, disarming slowness of justice. From this point of view, there would be a long reflection on the inadequate application of the division between technique and politics, with the prevarication of politicians over technicians with poor dignity and professionalism and of technicians over politicians with equal lack of dignity and professionalism. But there is more generally a theme, that of technicians who act guided by the principle of the transitoryness of politicians. The recent scandals are an emblematic and multiform example. The point is therefore to initiate, once again with the optimism of the will, a process of reconstruction and remodelling of the public administration, in the light of Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution. It is a process that involves a change of legal context no less than a change of custom and mentality and that asks politics for the courage to promote this change. Well, both for the original establishment of the decree-law of initiative of Minister Madia, and for the effort made by you colleagues with the amendments, by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and - if I may - by me as rapporteur, in a constructive and active dialogue with the Minister himself and with his very valuable staff, in the proposal that is presented to our attention there are choices that potentially go in the right direction. Article 1 on digital citizenship seeks to speed up the implementation of the digital agenda by means of multiple measures, of which I believe that particular mention should be made of the removal of the concrete barriers to access and the relationship between public administration, businesses and citizens and those on the computer education of the latter, which is an element of democracy in the evolution of our society. Articles 2 and 3 concern the discipline of administrative activity, one of the cornerstones of a reform of public administration. The legality, effectiveness and efficiency of public administration action depend on the punctuality, timeliness and exact modulation of decisions. These provisions focus mainly on the procedural mechanisms, ensuring the performance of the functions of each administration involved in such times that they do not allow the de facto eternalization of procedures and decisions; an eternalization that makes the private "slave" and makes "slave" the company that awaits answers from the public administration. The proposals contained in Article 2 on that fundamental institution, the Conference of Services, are moving in this key. This discipline introduces elements that guarantee a certain decision and in predefined times, which bring the relationship within the Conference of Services with a view to the loyal collaboration between administrations and therefore allow to exploit this instrument. Thus it is for the silence-consent between public administrations, which involves the fiction iuris of the acquisition of the opinion (not a positive or negative opinion), if the public administration held does not respond within thirty or sixty days. This too goes from the point of view that everyone must carry out their duties, but not by preventing the conclusion of proceedings which are in the interests of citizens and businesses. Also to the activities refers to article 4, that I believe is a fundamental norm because, through the exercise of the delegation previewed there, this country will finally have the discipline of the activities subject, in the various forms, to a simple communication of the private and the enterprises. Our order has evolved from a prior authorisation order to a subsequent control order, from an authorisation administration to a consent administration. This transformation, which took place in fact in the legislation, has never found points of definition and organic regulation, and this is the first opportunity because, through this delegation, giving concrete discipline to these activities of private initiative, it creates a context of guarantee and legal certainty of relations between private and public administration. Conditions are created for which these activities, which begin by the private sector, and which only find in the administration the possibility of control, can develop in this logic, without intervening those distorting phenomena that fear of loss of power by bureaucracy led us to verify, day after day, in the reality of municipalities and public administrations. To give certainty on this means to make a profound contribution to that redefinition of the relationship between public administration and citizens, which must go in the sense of an administration that, guaranteeing legality, is not against the citizen, but is in the logic of Article 118, fourth paragraph, of the Constitution, of horizontal solidarity, that is, instrument of the affirmation and development of the initiative of the private. No less significant in terms of the certainty of the relationship between public administration and citizens is Article 5, with the new discipline - and this is a technical element - for example, of the cancellation of office, with the identification of a certain period within which this cancellation can be exercised (which is the 18 months). I would also like to mention Article 6, the delegation on the right of Members to access, which will put an end to unconstitutional practices, and the 60% reduction in the fees granted to telephone operators for wiretapping and other investigative activities; a strong contribution, also, in the sense of the process of combating corruption. Articles 7 et seq. focus attention on the organisational profiles of the public administration. Article 7 provides for the reduction of the instrumental equipment, the reorganization and rationalization of the police functions; the reorganization of the functions of protection of the environment, the territory, the sea, the controls in the agri-food sector, with the reorganization of the forest body of the State and its possible amalgamation; a reorganization of the functions of the Presidency of the Council for the implementation of Article 95, its power of direction and the responsibility of the collegiality of the action of the Government. There is the forecast regarding the peripheral territorial offices of the State, a very important and very significant measure not only because it gives coordination on the territory to the presence of the State, but also because, through this reorganization, which will also be of logistic type, you will have the possibility, also in the perspective of the Conference of the services, to have a unitary representation on the territory, and on the periphery of the representations of the State. And those who work in the practice of administrations know how important this is and how much it can help to define and narrow down the decision-making time and to clarify the relationships of collaboration and interaction between private and business and public administration. Also within the framework of the reorganization, there is then article 8-a, which concerns the Chambers of Commerce. I believe that this is a very important and significant rule, which has also seen the centrality of the cooperation and role of Parliament, where this hypothesis was defined, given the censure made by the Budget Commission on Article 9. It is a redefinition of the Chambers of Commerce which, involving a numerical reorganization, maintaining the register of enterprises and with a reorganization and a redefinition of the same structure of the participations of the Chambers of Commerce, is placed in an even more open logic of the same Chambers of Commerce than the territory. There is in fact a forecast, which I believe is very important, so on the one hand, the election of the Chambers of Commerce bodies will have to see proper consultation of the associated companies and, on the other hand, the provision of limits of mandates. All this translates to a degree of renewal of the Chambers of Commerce system: these are measures that I do not think anyone can take as punitive or as antithetical or oppositional. These are measures that go in the direction of that process of modernization which, without rhetoric, we all feel should be of the public administrations themselves. In this same logic regarding the closely organised profiles, I would like to link immediately to the delegation on the participating companies and on the local public services: they are two delegations that strongly characterize and qualify this measure. We all know the economic importance of local public services as well; we all know the importance of the participating society sector and what potential this sector can have for the action of the public authorities, but also how much it has contributed, unfortunately, negatively, becoming the place of corruption, bad management and uncontrolled debt of public administrations. Well, it is in this key that the criteria set out in Article 14 of the delegation are moving, and I will of course not go over everything again so that I do not go too far, but of which I would like to sum up a few points. First of all, I would like to mention the reduction in the number of companies involved; the link to the institutional functions of the participating administrations; the consolidated financial statements, i.e. the budgets of the public administrations which must also cover those of the participating companies; and finally, what I think is an absolutely important measure, introduced by Parliament, that is, a discipline of responsibility which provides for the responsibility of the directors of the participating administrations. This means that in the companies you participate in the responsibility for decisions imposed as a single member or as a majority member by the mayor, the President of the Province or any other public administrator, will fall on the latter. We all know that up to now there has been simply the opposite, so, taking advantage of the forms of privatisation, the public administrators went to impose the choices, shifting the debt on the companies involved, thus doing customers at the level of recruitment and at the level of consulting in these same companies. Implementing this delegation means achieving an important reversal of the trend on the practice and use of mechanisms that have their potential, but it also means affecting political behaviour and customs, precisely in the logic of what was decided just before the anti-corruption. No less important is Article 15 on local public services, which reaffirms the fundamental function that these services carry out and their finalisation to the satisfaction of the needs of the community in a clear key link with the substantial equality of Article 3, in which there is provision for a general discipline of services, the elimination of exclusivity and the premium schemes of aggregations, as well as tariff regimes that provide for any increase in productivity to be aimed at reducing the burden of services on businesses and citizens. I now come back to the other issue which always concerns reorganization: I am referring to the subject of civil servants. There are two rules that concern this aspect: Article 13 on the Single Act on employment in the hands of the public administration and Article 10. These two articles are linked by a thread: it is the thread that starts from the consideration that the commonplace of public employees is, in fact, a common place and that there is a valorization of public staff to do. It is a valorization that must not make every grass a bundle, either in positive, or in negative, and that, therefore, must prevent the good civil servants from being accused of being idle, but that must not prevent the idlers in the public administration from bearing the weight and the consequences of the failure to fulfil their functions. In this key, there are general norms, that is those of Article 13 of the Single Text, which go in the sense of improving the quality of the conditions of completion of competitions that are centralized and of the search for selection methods that are more appropriate to the search for professionalism and, therefore, to the valorization of the brains, rather than to the valorization of the purely normative knowledge that go to accentuate the topic of the evaluation of the merit of the public employees than to the formal evaluations that characterize the current system. Then there is Article 10 on public leadership, which is certainly one of the articles that has most focused public attention. From this point of view, I would like to say immediately that the subject is not that of municipal secretaries. The issue of municipal secretaries has been resolved with - I believe - balance, showing that everything has been placed in the context of a more comprehensive reform and that in that logic also the municipal secretaries had to be reformed. This is, however, a reform that strikes, because, in the logic of overcoming the crisis of the public administration, it is possible to think of a leadership that completely changes its conditions, its roots, the operating context: not conditions that are changed to remove guarantees, but conditions that are changed to enhance the function and importance of the management; to allow the management to express itself to the best in the distinction between technical and political and can make its indispensable contribution. For this reason, however, we do not need bureaucrats who consolidate in one place and in that place remain, bureaucrats who simply know a slice and on that slice build their personal fortune and maybe even their slice of power. We need a management that, precisely because it is professional, knows that the principle of professional competition, the need for constant updating, the need to always question oneself is the thing that is needed. In fact, we need a leadership that can make our public administration dynamic and this management is only the one that knows that it is constantly being questioned on the professional level, to have to regain, time after time, the function, the location and the prestige of the role and to have to confront without limits of Ministry and Institution, with all the other public leaders, in a comparison that is that of professionalism and merit, that is not the comparison neither of political currents, nor of the internal currents to the administrations. It is a challenge to true dignity and professionalism: that professionalism that is played on the ability to exercise its technical functions and to exercise them in the context of true ethics. Then there is Rule 15-bis, which relates to this issue which has just been touched on. Article 15-bis introduces a delegation that will allow the Government to eliminate within 90 days all those forecasts of ministerial decrees and implementing regulations that have prevented the entry into force of many regulations. We know from the practice that these ministerial decrees and implementing regulations have often been, in the distorted use and exploitation of these forecasts, the tool to prevent unwelcome laws from coming into force. This is also a measure of strong and significant impact on processes that block the proper relationship between legislative power, executive power and administration as a whole. Let us be clear: I believe that the reform - in this sense the assurances that the President of the Council has given on several occasions and that the Minister absolutely agrees - will need a delegation for the rewriting of the fundamental law on administrative activity, namely the single text No 241 of 1990, and will also need a revision of the control system, a redefinition of the accounting process and to attack the issue of regulatory simplification. We can no longer think that, in the context of the overall reform of the Italian State, there is and should not be the identification of a way of lawmaking, which gives order, certainty and instant knowledge of the texts and their amendments. This is an issue which we have missed the opportunity to address in the constitutional bill, but which needs to be taken up again, because it is a sign of legal civilisation. Without rhetoric: we are the home of legal civilization and we cannot have the ballast of an unknowable and elephantic legislative system, which, as is well known, is one of the tools of corruption. The excess of uncontrolled and unordered legislation is what guarantees the world of corruption to always find a deception in the law. It is therefore necessary to simplify and clarify this system, so that all responsibilities are clarified and defined. Having said that, I would like to add with force another element: everything is held and therefore the reform of the public administration - even the best possible - which certainly has strong potential, will not be possible if there is no overall reform and efficiency of our public system. This overall efficiency, in my view, cannot but start from a true and determined efficiency of the Italian judicial system [[Applause from Senator Cuomo]] whether it is civil, criminal, administrative, tax or accounting. All reforms of justice will be without a future, until we start from the essential rule of setting certain times, in the intelligent flexibility of the rule, for the definition of judgment. There is also a certain time for public administration action: why should there not be a certain time for judicial action? This does not affect either independence, autonomy or the performance of the function, but it also causes the judicial system - the lawyers, as well as the magistrates - to assume responsibility for the problem of not denying justice and therefore giving a true, strong and effective response. I would like to make a final remark, with due patience, but also with a proper sense of responsibility, at the end of this experience as rapporteur of the measure under consideration, in some ways very exciting, although certainly without megalomania, for what concerns me. I have noticed a great resistance to change and a difficulty in understanding that change is everyone's interest. The change must not be seen by looking at the problem of what is being taken away from us, but it must be the strong element, in a general perspective, of the so called mission that we have towards future generations. We must understand that we must all take on the problem and the burden of change together, which we must accept to question ourselves, not in order to please this or another President of the Council, but because it is a problem that, if we want to see it, we can see and perceive every day. We know how this country has the potential to really be a leader in the world. But if we do not have the capacity to take on the bet of change in non rhetorical but concrete terms, and to go along this path all together, we will not be able to develop all these potentialities. I want to thank the Minister for his cooperation. We have collaborated in a very open and dialectical confrontation, but always profoundly constructive. I believe that Parliament will judge the results of this comparison but, with the awareness of the limits, I believe that some work has been done. I would like to thank the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to whom I owe the opportunity of this experience, the leader, Senator Lo Moro, and all the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I will not want those of the other parties if I first thank my party colleagues, who have been my friends and of whom I have felt the support throughout the process. Of course, I would also like to thank the staff of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and that of the Ministry of the Civil Service, which has worked very hard to develop this work. The bulk of the amendments and the work to be done required diligence, attention and professionalism which were demonstrated by the technical staff of both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Ministry of the Civil Service. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u66	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u67	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1232-B, already approved by the House of Deputies, as amended by the Senate and again amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator D'Ascola, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u68	Mr President, I shall confine myself to a few references to a very complex legislative text, the face of which, nevertheless, I believe I can sufficiently detail with the synthetic references I am preparing to make. How is the current panorama of precautionary requirements integrated? Meanwhile, from the reference to the topicality of the precautionary requirements, a further circumstance that is aimed at making even more detailed and specific the motivation. We will then see what other provisions are reflected in the structure of the explanatory statement, which must be given as justification for the limitation of personal freedom as well as those freedoms sacrificed by measures of an interdictive nature. Then there is a further reference which, in a certain sense, resolves an extremely well-known case-law issue, when it is said that precautionary requirements, as well as current requirements, cannot be derived from the seriousness of the title of the crime. That is to say that the assessment must always be relevant, specific and refer to the concrete case and not of a generalizing type, which would mean to exclude, of course for very serious crimes, the possibility that the accused will be prosecuted, as was once said with widespread expression within the courts, free of charge. The possibility of issuing coercive measures is therefore not conditioned by gravity: even for an extremely serious crime the accused may be in a state of personal freedom and of course the decisive plan of the restriction of his personal freedom will be determined, in a way, by the seriousness of the circumstantial elements, on the other hand, by a panorama of precautionary requirements actually justifying the restriction of personal freedom, as well as of the other freedoms connected with the application of any interdictive measures. An extremely interesting aspect, if I may mention, always briefly, on this subject, is that related to Article 275 (3) of our Code of Criminal Procedure, that is, the issue of the presumption of precautionary requirements whenever a particularly serious crime is in question. It is well known that legislation is frequently amended, not only by legislation, but also by those of the Constitutional Court, which has recently reduced only to Articles 270, 270-a and 416-a of the Criminal Code the offences for which it is possible to consider the presumption, albeit relative, of precautionary requirements. Among other things, I would like to point out that the Constitutional Court recently ruled, for the umpteenth time, in judgment n. 48 of 2015 (audience of 25 February, if memory does not deceive me), with which the Constitutional Court, interpreting a reference to 416- bis of the penal code, considered to exclude external competition from the possible hypotheses of assessment of the presumption of precautionary requirements. However, the new text of Article 275 of the Code of Criminal Procedure draws a varied and more complex landscape than in the past. We have the three crimes to which I have referred and for which the presumption of precautionary requirements is affirmed, albeit with that expression and relativity: unless they are acquired elements from which it appears that there are no precautionary requirements. There is also a second category of offences, such as those referred to in Article 51 paragraphs 3-a and 3-c of the Code of Criminal Procedure, i.e. the rules laying down organizational provisions of the District Offices of the Republic's Public Prosecutor. Compared to them, there is not only the relativizing reference made by the expression "unless elements are acquired from which it appears that there are no precautionary requirements", but also the further expression that serves to reduce the presumption in much more drastic terms, inevitably in compliance with the provisions introduced by the constitutional jurisprudence, according to which it is said, further, that it is not only necessary to assess whether there are no reasons that exclude the existence of the precautionary requirements, but also to assess whether by chance those precautionary requirements can also be neutralised by the adoption of measures different from those concerning the establishment of protective custody in prison. With regard to the structure of the explanatory statement - I was just talking about it - there is an element of motivation: it must be explained why house arrests are considered insufficient in relation to the most serious preventive detention measure in prison. In a certain sense, the reformist intervention on the point would make the measure of house arrest substantially central from the point of view of the possibility of introducing a limiting precautionary measure of personal freedom, since it must first be explained why house arrests should be insufficient and, consequently, on the interpretative level - I believe that it is not possible to reach a different conclusion - the detention in prison is a residual solution because it must be adopted every time it is explained that house arrests would be an ineffective measure on the necessary side of neutralizing precautionary requirements. There are also provisions for the transgression of cauteles linked, for example, to a precautionary measure of house arrest. The possibility, linked only to minor facts, of re-granting house arrests to persons convicted of evasion, is only possible for evasion in the five-year period, and is possible only when the wrongdoing is held by the small court. I follow the order of progression of the rules, but of course there is an interlinkage of the facts that I have to deal with. There is in the text of our examination the further provision by which it is established that the order by which personal freedom is limited must imply a necessary autonomy in the assessment of the individual specific precautionary requirements, because then the failure to assess the individual precautionary requirements autonomously would also lead to a defect of motivation - it is written - and therefore as such detectable before the Court of Cassation. This is obviously an old question; it is part of a rule, but we all know - at least those who have done this profession and this activity, regardless of whether they are judges or lawyers - that the problem of autonomy, that is, the need to dictate an autonomous segment within the motivation for the precautionary requirements represented, has been the subject of debate, but also of appropriate interventions by the Court of Cassation. After all, in this case there is nothing but taking part in the case-law debate on the matter and making it - precisely - standard. In this case too, taking note of some judicial arrests of the Court of Cassation, there is the need for the appearance of the defendant on the occasion of the chamber of council that is celebrated before the Tribunal of Freedom. We know that it is an interpretation (which the Court of Cassation had in some of its censored aspects) related to the chamber nature and therefore to the application of the rules, referred to in Article 127 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, of that chamber judgment; moreover, by virtue of the presence of that expression which states that the defendant is heard if he appears (so with that It must be assumed that this is a guaranteed choice of freedom: in short, if personal freedom is in question and if that person can help to clarify before the judge of the intratrial trial de libertate his position, he must do so not through the judge of surveillance, who would transmit a report without the pregnance of the direct communication that connects to a real questioning: he must be able to communicate the reasons of his defence. On the other hand, this is also in compliance with a constitutional jurisprudence, among other things dating back to the years of terrorism, which clearly separates the defence of a technical nature, which belongs exclusively to the defender, from the material defence, which obviously belongs to the accused: he knows what he can say and what he knows of the facts; clearly, the defender can never constitute a means, also because he is often unaware of the reality of the facts, but he certainly cannot constitute a means of the material defence to be recognized only to the accused. Still, the motivation is lacking - but I said so before - if there is no self-explanatory statement dedicated to the individual aspects in which the motivation complex is articulated. I come, illustrious senators, to give some indications on some more salient aspects: what really makes this discipline different in a more meaningful way than in the past? There is the peremptory nature of terms. This is probably the most important issue to deal with. There is the peremptory nature of the terms provided for by Article 309, but also by Article 311 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. We know that Article 309 is a regulation of the procedure before the Court of First Instance and therefore as a review, instead Article 311 for the appeal in cassation against the order of the Court of First Instance. In this case it is arranged that the possibility is only at the charge of the defendant. This was a question that separated the direction of the Senate from the direction of the Chamber of Deputies: the Senate had introduced an amendment whereby the power to extend the date of the decision was also the responsibility of the college, of its own motion (it seemed useful to refer to the rule giving the judge the power to extend the term of filing of the motivation in case of particularly complex measures). The Senate had considered that, also on this side, endotrial, de libertati, the college could be facultyed, i.e. it itself could determine, ex officio, an expansion of the time of deposit of the measures; instead, the Chamber of Deputies, inspired by a favor libertatis, had considered that this faculty could compete only with the accused, who, if obviously there are reasons for the request for dilation of the terms, could precisely ask and possibly be authorized to a sacrifice on the side of timeliness, which would have been possibly - this in the obviously not declared ratio of the law - compensated with a less timely but more in-depth evaluation. The House of Deputies has therefore decided to return to the old text. Now this option belongs only to the accused; the Senate has decided not to propose its amendment again, so there is a perfect overlap, at least in this last reading, between the text of the House and the text of the Senate. I mean, this faculty is now recognized only by the defendant. However, the most important mechanism on which the rapporteur is able to draw the attention of this House inevitably concerns the peremptory nature of the terms. I am opening a parenthesis: the peremptive and authorising terms do not differ in any way in terms of the forecast of the term, but differ only in terms of the forecast of a sanction in the case of their non-compliance. We understand that a term is authorising if it is resolved in a sort of council, a directive, and it is not sanctioned: I give an indication but you are free not to observe it. Of course, if there is a sanction, a forfeiture, a foreclosure, an inadmissibility, then we learn that that term is peremptory. The term is peremptory because the order ceases to be effective. We, therefore, identify the sanction: there is a procedural penalty under which the order, losing effectiveness, involves the release of the accused. That's clear. It is true that the rule allows for the recovery of the precautionary condition, because it is without prejudice to the case where there are exceptional precautionary requirements which, however, need to be specifically justified. This decadent mechanism, this peremptory term, is recovered, but not before the Cassazione. It would have been impossible to predict a decadent mechanism in that case. In the aftermath of the entry into force of the law on the Court of Freedom, there was the idea that the Supreme Court should also decide in peremptory terms, but some manuals - I remember some - had faced a coeval interpretation - we might say - at the entry into force, in 1982, of the Court of Freedom, but in that case it was unthinkable to suppose a peremptory term. In this case, however, the peremptority of the term is recovered on the side of the referral judgment: all times when the Court of Cassation, accepting the grounds de liberate, at the trial stage of the Court of Freedom, annuls with reference to the Tribunal of Freedom locally located on the territory, obviously depending on the territorial jurisdiction, that court has time-limits to decide in the referral judgment. Even this time, with symmetry that could not fail to be absolutely perfect, it is established that the failure of the Court of freedom within the time limit determines the ineffectiveness of the protective custody measure, always without prejudice to the cases of exceptional precautionary requirements which, however, must be specifically identified. My last reference - in order not to disturb the Assembly too much - concerns a rule, Article 21-b of the prison law, whereby permits to visit persons held for the benefit of their relatives are extended. The category is extended: not only children are the beneficiaries of these permits, but also spouses, i.e. those living together, provided they are seriously handicapped, even if they are to be established on the basis of the legislation in force in this field. I apologise for the excessive nature of the framework that I have allowed myself to dictate in the course of my introductory report. The debate will certainly make it possible to highlight everything that needs to be put to the attention of the House so that it has a perfect knowledge of the legal issues that this legislative text raises. However, I believe that the main institutions are those on which I have allowed myself to draw particular attention to this House. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Stefani, Buccarella and Bruno]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u69	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u72	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, my speech at the end of the sitting is functional to an urgency that the Italian municipalities are experiencing, especially the most virtuous ones, who by letter have already informed, through the ANCI, the Presidency of the Council asking urgently for the enactment of the decree-law of the local authorities. This decree-law was born from necessity that were well highlighted in an agreement signed at the end of February in the unified State-Regions Conference. The understanding shows that certain Italian Municipalities - we are talking about Municipalities that have, roughly, a management of about half the Italian population, 30 million inhabitants - complain, rather motivatedly, that the late positions taken in 2014 regarding local finance have prevented them from being able to proceed with correctness in the context of their administrative activities. 7:13 p.m. (Followed by Mr Poppato). This has in fact put them at risk of sanctions for the Stability Pact. Now, this has been highlighted in the State-Regions Conference. There is no time to analyse individual situations, but I think it suffices to state, in the light of a series of examples that have been represented to me by the municipalities of Veneto, that what unfortunately happened is that this erroneous accounting has, in fact, prevented them and is preventing them from being able to proceed with the budgets of 2015, putting in place a mechanism that, from the constitutional point of view, is antithesis with what is provided for by Article 114 of Title V of the Constitution, which provides for the equivalence of local authorities between them and puts on the same level any public institution, be it Region, State, Central Government or Municipalities, and by Article 119, which provides that the Municipalities enjoy autonomous resources, with their own financial autonomy in and out. In this way, 625 million of the compensatory fund, which has not been recognised to date but which were indispensable for the 1,800 municipalities and the 30 million inhabitants mentioned earlier, have been lost in order to prevent them from losing their casts in the transition from the IMU regime to the TASI rates. The absence of this amount implies in fact that these municipalities are conditioned and forced to do the following: the Solidarity Fund that the State should use in favour of the Municipalities, is now fully financed by the Municipalities themselves; which means that there are Municipalities that not only live from their own resources - and so far, in the Italian situation, you can even understand - but there are Municipalities that draw resources from their own budgets to put them in the National Solidarity Fund in favour of the other Municipalities, which is in open conflict with the aforementioned articles of the Constitution. I close by recalling the case of the mountain municipalities, the metropolitan cities and the need to refinance the Fund in question. [[Applause from Senator Cuomo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u75	SANTINI (PD). Madam President, I am speaking at the end of the sitting about something that we could call ordinary drama. In the province of Padua a company of 230 employees, mainly workers, of the Zegna group, the company In.Co, will close in the coming weeks. The news was announced during a trade union meeting convened on other subjects. The production, of great quality, that in all these years has borne to the situation of crisis, would be moved to other companies of the group and in particular in Piemonte. In this way, there would be only two possibilities for workers: to lose their jobs or the breezy possibility of being transferred to other companies, which are 350 kilometres away and are women of an average age between forty and forty and five years old, this hypothesis is essentially unworkable. The Zegna group occupies about 1,060 people and has plants in Piedmont, Novara and Biella, in Parma and in the province of Padua. In the years of the crisis it did not have substantial repercussions, except for an important experience of solidarity contracts, so it would still have instruments, such as the ordinary integration fund, that could guarantee the overcoming of a problem such as the one announced concerning a productive difficulty. Unfortunately, however, the company has chosen another path, that, which we consider very serious, of the closure that we consider unmotivated, especially because immediate and leaves without job and without future 230 workers at a time when unfortunately unemployment is still very high even in the territory of Padua. We have just submitted an urgent question to the MISE. I would like to speak here by asking the presidency of the Senate to be an interpreter of an immediate response so that the MISE immediately summons the parties to examine all possible alternatives. I repeat, this is a high quality production. We therefore call on the Presidency to ensure that, in view of the urgency and seriousness of the matter, this meeting can be achieved quickly. The workers, as is natural, are in permanent supervision of their company and have the right to have an immediate and adequate response from the institutions that engages the Zegna group, a prestigious group still established in the national and international market, to withdraw from the closure and to find an understanding on the many instruments that can allow a socially more compatible management of the situation of productive difficulties that, I repeat, can have other possible solutions. We therefore ask that the MISE be asked to respond quickly to our question, but above all to convene the parties quickly, in the next few days, to find a solution together.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u76	The Presidency will interpret this request. However, the request has been heard by the Undersecretary Pizzetti that we are sure will urge the Ministry of Economic Development in the sense you want.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u79	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, it seems, unfortunately, that the statements at the end of the sitting have a common matrix, that of exposing the Government's positive announcements on the issue of unemployment. In fact, the ISTAT, already in these days, has cooled in peremptory way the warm proclamations of the weeks lasted on the so flagrant economic recovery. There is evidence that Senator Santini himself, who just preceded me, has brought to the fore a problem linked to the loss of jobs in the North. On the other hand, I will talk about a problem that affects the whole of the beautiful country and that, in this case, concerns Viterbo, here in Lazio. This is the economic history of recent years and has been recorded as a drop in consumption and youth unemployment at the highest levels, not to mention women's unemployment, which has been clearly illustrated in these days by the description given by ISTAT of this phenomenon. There is at stake, with the loss of these jobs, the balance of the social system of a territory and of an entire country. It has closed in the worst way, according to ISTAT, the black year of Italian trade: the desertion of the shops by the Italians themselves is evident and concerns both food and non-food products. A sort of condiment that has touched the large distribution and small distributors, that is those that have small surfaces. In this economic context, an event took place. The banner that employees showed the world to the universe - because the images went to national and local newspapers and TVs - said: "Employees not in sale" This banner was exhibited by the 27 employees of Mercone Uno, who demonstrated in the Piazza del Comune on Monday, March 30, 2015. This absolutely peaceful demonstration was organized to draw the attention of politics to the ever more concrete possibility of closing the store of the North Cassia. Mercatone Uno is a company that has 79 shops all over the country, of which 2 in Tuscia. Reasons for the consolidation and redefinition of points of sale that are not economically supported have been brought by the management. It is therefore feared the closure of about half of the points of sale at national level: a sort of Russian roulette, a gun pointed to the temple of the workers, which are about 3,700 in all, of which 1,200 are probably affected by this scaling or total closure of some points of sale. We have already tabled a question, at the first signature of Senator Arrigoni, in which we urge the Ministry to take charge of this problem and to put in place all the actions to protect the workers concerned in all ways. Last night we met, in Viterbo, a delegation of these workers; some were just missing, but they were well represented. In them we have seen the great regret for the loss of a job, but we have also seen the dignity that accompanies these people; certainly we have not seen in them the resignation. This must be the sentiment that accompanies politics, that it must put in place everything that can be done to protect the place of these workers, but also in general of those who, perhaps, in small and medium-sized enterprises, or at the level of crafts, especially in Lazio and in Viterbo, have great difficulties to make ends meet. An area that was rich until recently and that felt in a particular way the bites of the crisis. May the Government undertake to verify these situations because there is no ISTAT that holds: this is the real life, the life that we see, unfortunately, many times, only at the end of the session. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u80	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-422.ana.u81	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday, April 2, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.25 p.m.
