ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 5 November.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9.41 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u8	The next item is the joint debate on draft law Nos. 2112 and 2111. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, final votes on both measures will be taken by nominal vote by simultaneous ballot, by electronic procedure. The reporters, Senators Zanoni and Chiavaroli, have requested authorization to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Zanoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u9	Madam President, Senators and Senators, the examination of the draft Stability and Budget Act 2016 ended last night in the Budget Committee. The work was carried out in an orderly manner and in an atmosphere of collaboration, all aware, majority and minority of the Senate and Government, of the repercussions of our choices and decisions that were being made. I would like to take this opportunity to thank, in addition to all the senators who in various ways participated in the work and the Government, all the staff of the offices of the Senate and the groups that supported us in the great work done. It is an honour for the rapporteurs to be able to explain the measure in this House and to account for the work done in the Commission. The intense work of this last week has continued with the awareness that the best way to react to the very serious terrorist acts of Paris is to continue to do our duty, albeit with a heavy heart and the thought addressed to all the victims of those attacks. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and Mixed-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u10	Thank you for your openness.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u11	ZANONI, rapporteur. While in a national and international scenario that has to deal with the needs of security and investment for the defence of our citizens, the public finance maneuver for the year 2016 develops in a framework of economic recovery and employment. For the current year, GDP growth is expected to be 0.9%, while for 2016 - according to the DEF Update Note - the performance of the national economy is expected to accelerate further, resulting in a planned growth rate of 1.6. And I would like to stress that we do not always have this programming capacity and it is not always said that the forecasts, sometimes even optimistic, are realized. In the Update Note to the DEF, the Government presented an improved macroeconomic framework compared to last year's available data. Given the extent of the upward revision and the forecast growth of real GDP, formulated in September, the content of the Stability Act in our review outlines a fiscal policy orientation clearly aimed at achieving the objective of reducing the tax burden of businesses and households and stimulating private investment, including through the use of the flexibility margins provided for in the Stability and Growth Pact. This approach is motivated by the fact that the reduction of the debt-to-GDP ratio - which is currently the most critical indicator for our country - can be pursued both with budgetary discipline and, above all, with a sustained rate of nominal GDP growth. In the 2016 Draft Budget Document, which was sent by the Government to the European Commission and the Eurogroup on 15 October 2016, these guidelines were confirmed and the reasons for calling for more budgetary flexibility were clarified. In particular, the new reforms that justify the additional margin of 0.1 points of GDP and the investments co-financed against the required margin of 0.3 points of GDP are listed and the impact of the so-called migrant emergency is described in response to the call for further 0.2 points of GDP flexibility. But let us now come to those who are the planned interventions. The amount of public finance manoeuvre without the "migrant clause" in terms of net debt is 28.6 billion euros. Of these, 16.8 billion went to sterilize the safeguard clauses relating to the increase in VAT and excise duties and the reduction of tax concessions. I believe that this is a courageous policy which our Government has proposed and which the Commission has fully implemented. It is nothing - so to speak - media, on the contrary, because it prevents future price increases from happening, citizens do not perceive its effects. However, this really is a useful act at this stage, in a context of economic recovery and employment. In the proposals, EUR 4.5 billion is earmarked for the cancellation of the IMU on bolted machinery and agricultural land and TASI on the main dwelling; EUR 834 million for the contributory reductions for recruitment; EUR 434 million for the detaxation of productivity premiums; EUR 130 million for the depreciation of capital goods; EUR 113 million for the extension of IRPEF deductions on building renovations and energy redevelopment; EUR 186 million for measures relating to subsidised tax schemes; EUR 940 million for measures on social hardship and combating poverty (I believe that this is an important signal within this framework); EUR 160 million for the women option; EUR 300 million for the renewal of contracts; EUR 100 million for interventions in the Land of Fires; EUR 666 million for the new public finance rules for local authorities. Before going on to briefly explain all these issues, I would like to stress that the numerous hearings which have been held in preparation for the Commission's work have been extremely useful and have given us an extremely varied picture, including with elements of caution, such as those carried out by the parliamentary budgetary office, which has highlighted some critical issues, of which we can only share the importance and importance. However, we also had great comfort in the hearings: ISTAT, in its hearing, told us that October's consumer confidence figures show values at the highest in recent years, with a particularly marked increase in the economic situation component. On the business side too, the composite confidence index shows a gradual improvement. However, in its report, ISTAT also highlighted one aspect that the Commission has taken absolutely on board, explaining to us that intervention on the main dwelling will affect a large number of beneficiaries. According to data from the ISTAT's annual survey of income and living conditions in 2014, about 18 and a half million households (72%) own the house in which they live, but - and I want to stress this, because it was the fundamental element of a significant part of the work in the Commission - 4,775 million households live instead in a rented house. This has made us think a lot about it and we have thought that, while we share the overall picture of the proposed maneuver, perhaps the Commission could have worked on a weaker band than our citizens, because it is clear that those who rent belong to the weakest band and certainly the lowest income. The Commission has worked on this for a long time, putting forward proposals and transposing many of the amendments that have been tabled, even cross-cuttingly, by many political forces. The rapporteur, Mrs Chiavaroli, will then turn to this. The other aspect that I would like to stress in this report is that, in this context of improving the economy, the increase in the probability of transition from term to permanent employment, which can be seen both as a transformation and as a change in employment, is observed among women, from 16.9 to 21.6 percent. Among men, the growth of the transition frequency towards the indefinite period is recorded for the unemployed. I believe that these considerations, together with the other (i.e. that the probability of transition from a fixed-term contract to a fixed-term contract is more of a concern to the twenty-four-year-olds) are important elements, which make us reflect positively, knowing that, moreover, working on the increase of permanent work for women is very significant for their ability to plan a life and manage their future. But above all, from an economic point of view too, women's work has a multiplier effect because, as we know, a woman's work involves a multiplication of jobs because her employment requires help in the family, thus creating new jobs. I reported this ISTAT data, which is very useful for our work, because it seemed important to me. The measures proposed by this maneuver are, first and foremost, measures for growth, which are based on three lines of action. The first, concerning the non-application of the increase in excise duties and VAT ( 2013 and 2014 safeguard clauses), is scheduled for 2016. In the absence of this measure, a maneuver would have had a recessive effect on both businesses and households. The second area of intervention concerns the so-called "home package', which includes the tax exemption measures on the main dwelling and the extension of the ecobonus. The third guideline concerns specific measures to support productive activities, including the rules on the depreciation of capital goods, the exemption of tax on so-called bolted goods and agricultural land, the measures relating to the minimum regime and the reduction, from 2017, of IRES. I shall not dwell on the analytical aspects of the measures. I would just like to remind you that the Commission has worked hard on the package of house interventions, in order to clear up the aspects of the manoeuvre that could have affected the weakest: tenants or those who, even if they own a home, have to deal with the problem of disability within their own family. The problem of separate couples and therefore the use of housing among them has also been addressed and a lot of attention has been paid to the rents agreed to help the market and ensure the availability of accommodation to the most defenceless categories. We have also worked hard on the emergence of rents in black, but this will also be discussed in greater depth by the other rapporteur. I would like to point out to the business speakers that, in the hearing with the Confindustria, the latter, in agreement with the maneuvering system, asked the Parliamentary Commissions to confirm its installation by supplementing it with measures to support private investment in the South, including in the field of research and innovation, in the conviction that these measures can substantially contribute to accelerating the economic restart and to enhancing its effects, thus making the target of 2% annual GDP growth closer and more sustainable, to which our country must aim in the short term. Of all the measures mentioned above, I would just like to mention a few of them because of their importance. I believe that the attention to the world of university, research, high school and our excellence, in an attempt to bring out our young people and to make them stay in our country, represents an important objective. In this direction, our Commission wanted to make a contribution. What I still want to stress is the social distress measures contained in this maneuver. The various measures introduced to combat poverty (the introduction of a single national measure to combat poverty, the establishment of a fund to combat educational poverty, the disposal of fresh and easily perishable products together with a number of other measures on non-self-sufficiency and international adoptions) show that the current financial manoeuvre is very attentive to these social categories. I think we all have to work for growth, but we don't forget anyone. Everyone must have the opportunity to follow the process of growth; in particular, they must have the possibility not to feel abandoned, not to feel alone and to have a chance to improve precisely the categories with the greatest difficulties, starting with our children. Mr President, since there has been a great deal of talk these days about all the measures and elements contained in the drafts of law in our examination, I am beginning to conclude, not least in order to leave room for my colleague. The path made in the Senate, this time was important. In fact, I believe that with the cooperation of all we have set ourselves a shared path that has brought us here today, guaranteeing the respect of the times and, in any case, giving the possibility to all those who have tabled amendments to explain them. I remember that we started with 3,500 amendments tabled and that we had the feeling that we could not do it, that we could not vote on everything and that we could not answer everyone. The path we took, which was shared, forced us to say many nos. However, the Stability Act has its consistency in the measures to achieve the strengthening of the recovery. The Commission's work has confirmed the maneuvering process, trying to cover certain problems in particular and trying to respond to the requests made during the hearings. Sometimes respect for the times becomes substance. The Senate had taken on the objective of completing its work, giving a mandate to reporters and bringing financial documents to the House by this week. We have done this with the collaboration of all and with attention to the growth of the country, trying not to make anyone stay back, with the awareness that no country is an island and more than ever we understood this week when we felt so close to our neighbours and the city of Paris. I should like to conclude by thanking everyone, given that the path we have taken may still contain some gaps that have been highlighted and that my colleague will probably explain. These are certainly important issues such as the interventions for the South and the pensions that we have not been able to deal with here, also because it was the first reading. We know, however, that there is the possibility of continuing the work that has been done in the House. So I really thank everyone once again, starting with the minorities who have absolutely not been obstructive, but have collaborated. All together, in fact, we have fully examined the 3,500 amendments tabled. It was a tiring, complicated job, but I think it gave satisfaction to all of us in terms of deepening the problems. This does not mean that we have reached conclusions shared by everyone, but surely everyone has had the opportunity to say theirs and we, I believe, have listened to everyone. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you all. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u12	We greet the students and students of the law school of LUMSA in Rome who are attending our work. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u13	I call the rapporteur, Senator Chiavaroli.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u14	Madam President, I shall try to report briefly on the work that has taken place in the Commission, in conjunction with the comments made by the other rapporteur on the environment in which our work took place. In the Commission, the climate was absolutely serene and cooperative, and the opposition also contributed to the improvement of the law of stability in the House and the conferral of the mandate to the rapporteurs. I believe that this is a great gesture of political maturity for this institution. A great deal of work has been done, to which the Senators of the Commission, the Government, represented by Deputy Minister Morando, and all the Offices that have worked in support of the Commission, as well as the President of the Commission Tonini, have contributed. Our work has opened with the hearings, which have basically confirmed the good layout of the maneuver, but which have also identified some areas of intervention and improvement. I will begin by saying what are the areas of improvement which, in agreement with the hearings, the Commission had also identified, but on which it was unable to intervene. Certainly the most important area on which we would have wished to make a substantial intervention is that of the South. All the opposition and majority groups have put forward proposals for the Mezzogiorno, which can basically be summed up in two measures: one is the tax credit for investment in the South and the other is the increase in the decontribution for new recruits. We have worked so that these two measures can both see the light of day with the coverage of Community funds. Unfortunately, when we realized that both measures could not be supported, we were not able to intervene because neither was the Government able to give us an answer, indicating what measures can be implemented effectively. So this is the great issue that we entrust to our colleagues in the House of Deputies. The other two issues on which the Commission has not spoken, although there has been a major debate, are the issue of pensions and the issue of local authorities in general, municipalities, provinces and even regions, on which the Commission has only partially intervened. These are the areas of possible improvement that we have identified, on which we have failed to act and which we ideally entrust to our colleagues in the House. We have, however, done very important things, which qualify this maneuver. I am referring first of all to the big issue of the house, clearly sharing the establishment of the stability law, which makes an important intervention aimed at exempting the first house from payment of tax. Following the hearings and all the proposals drawn up by the Commission, we have also decided to intervene on a number of issues. In particular, our intervention focused on who does not own the house, but has it for rent, because we realized, from the audition of ISTAT, that there are a large number of families living in a rented house. We decided then to encourage those homeowners who grant rented houses to agreed rents, granting an important tax relief on this front. In addition, always on the rental front, we have acted with an important regulation of rents in black, providing for the nullity of any agreement other than what appears in written form. This is an important measure, today also very appreciated by the press. Our intervention has also focused on certain situations of homes granted free of charge; in other special situations, we have taken into account the disabled and the separated who grant the house to their children. We have therefore implemented a very substantial intervention on the subject of the house, which has also been completed with the strengthening of the ecobonus for the purchase of furniture for young couples who put up their first home. The theme of the house was therefore the first major issue we addressed. The other major issue on which the Commission's work focused was that of school and university. On the subject of school, we have provided for an important measure concerning textbooks, setting up a fund to help those who are in school to buy them. Another important measure concerns teachers posted for social purposes, figures that we have confirmed recognizing their importance. We have also put in place a great deal of intervention on equal schools, recognizing their contribution to the public education system. We have also intervened on equalized musical institutions; as we have not yet seen the light of the bill on statization, we have decided to continue the work of supporting these institutions put in place with the good school project. As far as the university is concerned, we have acquired a number of demands and refinanced the university's ordinary funding fund in an important way. We have also envisaged an important measure for grants for university students, and we have also taken care of research institutions, allowing some of the investments already envisaged in the law of stability for the recruitment of researchers to be allocated to these institutions. Finally, on this front in the broad sense of merit and excellence, we corrected a rule relating to the counterexodus, the so-called return of the brains, allowing a tax relief for all those who returned to the date when the law of stability saw its light. We then spoke on a subject that we consider important, on which we would have liked to do more, that of birth. Our country is a country in which few children are born and we know very well that the growth of a country is closely linked to its demographic development. We have therefore concentrated on two interventions that we have considered symbolic, but nevertheless important: compulsory parental leave for fathers (in order to which we have not only extended the existing rule but have done more, introducing compulsory parental leave for two days); the refinancing of the regulation on babysitting, the one that grants mothers who intend to return to work a voucher for the babysitter. With regard to the issue of RAI, another important issue in the Stability Act, we have foreseen two significant interventions. The first concerns the granting of a payment in installment in ten installments of the fee, always based on the electricity bill. In addition, we have made a very important measure from the point of view of the exemption of the RAI fee: this is a programmatic rule that identifies as the priority destination of the possible surplus of the RAI fee an extension of the exemption that is now provided for pensioners up to 6,500 euros. We have extended this exemption to pensioners up to EUR 8,000, which is the extension of the no-tax area provided for by this law of stability. We are convinced that this is a very qualifying intervention on this point. We have also taken action to strengthen the measures to support certain areas which are already very much present in the Stability Act, but for which we felt that we could do something more. In particular, we have intervened in the field of agriculture by restoring the preferential tax regime for small farmers, by introducing a rule, which we consider important, to facilitate land recomposition, and finally by re-financing the Fisheries Integration Fund. We have also spoken on a very hot issue in this period, which is that of companies in crisis. We have decided to set up a fund for companies that are victims of the failures of other companies, to support them and to testify that the State is close to them at these times. On a subject much discussed above all in the external debate, which is that of cash, the Commission has been urged in opposite directions, because there have been amendments to raise the cash ceiling further and amendments to lower it. We have considered that the intervention contained in the Stability Act is right and that it is placed in the middle of the requests received, and we have therefore confirmed it. The hearings confirmed that this rule on cash does not affect tax evasion, but helps to restore the climate of trust that, as Mrs Zanoni said, in our country has returned positive. However, we believe that the cash rule had a slight forgetfulness, because in the hearings we heard that it could favour money laundering in the part where the limit was also extended to transfers of money abroad, the so-called money transfers. On these we have adopted a rule in the Commission which limits the transfer of money abroad to EUR 1,000, thus maintaining the current limit. We then made an important intervention on the Regions and on the topic of health: on the Regions we have transposed the decree of the Government that clarifies the accounting of the previous debts of the Regions; moreover, we have confirmed the measure that we had approved in the law of stability last year that concerns the strong investment, of which we are proud, that our Country has made on innovative drugs and that many lives has saved thanks to the allocation of 500 million present in the last law of stability, that this law of stability confirms. We have also made important interventions on the CAFs and the patrons, recognizing to the CAFs the role they have at the moment for the success of the pre-compiled declaration, waiting for the completion of the reform process already begun and arrived almost to the end with the publication of the decrees. Finally, we have made other improvements that concern the environment in general, with a rule on national parks, to which we have wished to pay attention, and on the subject of Italians abroad. We have also made interventions on important research projects, such as genomes, and then interventions which, although not of a strict financial nature, greatly improve the law of stability in some areas, such as the one on computer spending. The rule, as it was written, seemed punitive and seemed to discourage investments in computer science, which are necessary in the public administration. We made it clear that this was a rule aimed at avoiding waste which, moreover, we were very well represented at the hearing of ISTAT. ISTAT has pointed out, for example, that the State pays a printer 70% more than the market price. We corrected that rule, indicating that its aim was to avoid this waste and not to reduce State intervention in this area. An important rule has been made for professionals, to allow access to Community funds for this category. The interventions were also made, in general, from a social point of view. An intervention here I want to exemplify, on the subject of volunteering. With regard to the volunteers of the fire department, who have to take very expensive medical visits, we have done an intervention with which we take charge of the cost of these medical visits, because we do not want those who voluntarily lend their work in favor of the country to bear the costs. This is from the point of view of expenditure. This Commission also took the view that it should take action from the point of view of revenue. We felt that we wanted to cancel the VAT facility for pellets. We have made an important rule, also this very well received by the press, on the facilitation for individual entrepreneurs who want to remove the goods from the company. In addition, we have equalized the rate for the revaluation of qualifying and unqualified holdings. Finally, we have made an intervention on the VAT of social cooperatives. I am convinced that the work in the Commission, in the light of what I have tried briefly to sum up, has greatly improved this law of stability, while preserving areas of improvement, as I said at the beginning. I should like to end by thanking everyone, because what we have achieved in the Commission is a great result of everyone, of the whole Senate, of all the forces of majority and opposition, and also of the offices in support of this institution, which have once again proved to be up to their task. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u15	The minority rapporteur, Senator D'Alì, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u16	I therefore call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as an opposition and a minority we have some important passages to highlight. These are first and foremost institutional steps. We were faced with a financial maneuver presented with fifteen days late and limited in time. This will to restrict time is still recorded today in the debate in this House which, already limited to a few sessions, has been further reduced in the last few hours with the almost impossible for the Groups to fully express their thoughts. We have, however, adopted an attitude of absolute cooperation of which the rapporteurs have also shown us and which this year has allowed us to bring the financial maneuver to the House with the rapporteur. Those who are accustomed to the events of our Parliament and, in particular, of the Senate know that this is a not insignificant passage to which we arrive only if the Commission does not adopt obstructive attitudes. We have not implemented any such attitude: we have worked together to draft the text, but we must record that the text is absolutely unsatisfactory to us. It's not for us, it's for the country. When we introduced the law of stability in place of the old finance, we thought that the climate had changed and that the attitude of Parliament had changed culturally. Alas, so it is not in the source, which would be the government's bill. In fact, in the Government's bill we record an extreme fragmentation of interventions and a concentration of interventions on an annual basis and not on a three-year basis. Many things will only be done for 2016 - I will say the most important shortly - and many others, although announced as important, are postponed to 2017. Much of these things that have been said and postponed are, as we all know, submitted to a European Union judgment which, as far as we are allowed to understand from what we are reading these days, will not be in any way favourable. I am sure - I do not want to be a prophet of bad events - that in March or April, after the European Union's judgment, we will have to return with a new maneuver to remedy all those things that will have been judged negatively. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Casaletto]] Having said that, we have to record that there are absolutely worrying macro data. There is a resounding increase in public debt. Faced with the inability to cut spending, the Government obvious to some critical tax also that would have occurred in 2016 - I mean the so-called safeguard clauses - with a use of the so-called margin of indebtedness thanks to the increase of GDP - we will also talk about this - with a massive recourse to new indebtedness. The same Government and the same majority forces recognize that this year the debt-to-GDP ratio of our country will not be able to go down. The further 32.5 billion of rising public debt issues (the so-called needs) will increase further to reach 35 billion if we do not recognise the so-called "migrant clause" in Europe, i.e. if we do not recognise the possibility of falling back from the exceptional expenses - the so-called exceptional expenditure clause - that we have asked to act to deal with the migration issue. That worries us. If we look, in fact, also at what the Government has presented as a maneuver with regard to relations with the Regions, our public debt, which until now had commented on how to be a burden on our children, is being transferred to the children's children and grandchildren's children in an irreversible way and without any reversal of trend. But let us come to the large absentees of this financial law, those for which perhaps it would have been really important and useful to use resources. If, in fact, they result from an increase in GDP, we cannot fail to say that in this increase we are, as always, the taillight. We are the ones who suffer the greatest loss of GDP when the international recession has this direction. We are the ones who increase it to a lesser extent when, instead, because of some macro elements - the so-called fundamentals of the international economy - everyone recovers in terms of the increase in gross domestic product. And we're always the last ones in the standings. All this, however, certainly depends not only on the Government, but also on an overall situation of keeping the national economy and its protagonists. Given that I censor the absence of many important issues in the finance under consideration, issues that the Government has not wanted - at least in the transition to the Senate - to include, but I say that the economy of a state does not depend only on what the Government does or Parliament establishes: it also depends on the overall concert of society that, very often, escapes, in the context of some of its important protagonists, the duty to concentrate efforts in improving the overall economy of the country and prefers to take refuge in other countries, in other solutions that are not, in fact, national tension and civic tension. Having said that, who are the great absentees of the financial maneuver to our examination? It is the pensioners, because no one thinks - like us, however, we have done - of the increase in minimum pensions. It is the exodus who are still suffering from the tragic consequences of the resolutions of the Monti Government. And it is still not understood how a maneuver that deals with both the raising of minimum pensions and the complete solution of the problem of exodus can contribute - and not a little - to the improvement through the consumption of the internal market, which represents that indispensable lever, before even others, capable of giving a strong boost to our economy. The Mezzogiorno is also a great absentee, but only in the draft law of the Government, having been recovered to the debate within the Commission through the requests of all the parties of majority and above all opposition, which recognized such a absence. And, nevertheless, the government has always come to the precise order not to deal definitively with the subjects of the Mezzogiorno, because they will be dealt with in the House, except then to listen to the Minister of Relations with Parliament who, immediately after the events of Paris (I take advantage, President, of the opportunity to associate myself, on behalf of the opposition, with the right and appropriate words expressed in this regard by Senator Zanoni), has pronounced some "se" and some "ma" who have not calmed us at all. If we are to say that we must, however, consider the exceptional measures to be taken in relation to the tragic events in Paris and that, therefore, the manoeuvre on the Mezzogiorno must be contemporaneous to them, we must really ask ourselves whether this law of stability will ever work in favour of the Mezzogiorno. We have to ask ourselves what it has to do with it, and with what we have to do in that situation in Italy, the problem of international security. Is it an alibi, an excuse, or a resounding ignorance of the facts? We know that the problems we face for international security - as Minister Morando has reminded us several times - will be included in that clause of exceptional events that does not affect our availability within the framework of the decisions of the law of stability. From this point of view, I believe that Vice-Minister Morando - I take this opportunity to thank him for the great patience he has had with all of us and especially for the contribution he has made in drawing up this law of stability - has himself been very disappointed (but I do not want to interpret his personal sentiments of course) by the fact that he has not been able to deal fully and has not even been able to open in this branch of Parliament the chapter of the Mezzogiorno, which could certainly have been addressed - this we would have hoped and still hope, even if with some concern - to be defined then in the Chamber of Deputies. But a precise signal was needed. The majority parties did not have the courage to impose a decision on this matter and so today we are presenting ourselves in this House with a law of stability in which we do not talk about the Mezzogiorno. The path of tax credit, that is, as the rapporteur said, the path of total decontribution for recruitment in the Convergence Objective Regions; something we could have identified, also because the data provided by the Government I do not believe can be different to those stated by Deputy Minister Morando to the Senate. It was, therefore, precisely an attitude of political will of the government's summits that they did not want to give an answer to the demands of all on the Mezzogiorno in this Parliamentary Assembly. Other great absentees, in the size that it would be appropriate to adopt, are the cuts in expenditure; the European Union told us yesterday. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] ; We recognise this among ourselves also as a result of the verification figures of what was an ambitious programme of intervention on cuts in public expenditure compared to the results of that programme. The only cut that can be made or imagined is still the linear one on the Ministries; the other cut is that of health spending, then trying to shift the burden, with regard to innovative medicines, on the suppliers, with the systems provided by the regulations. But we cannot get into the real issue of reducing expenditure, because we do not want to tackle the issue of reducing spending centres in this country. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] Once again, I have submitted to the Commission - and I must say that Vice-Minister Morando has also accepted my own agenda - the imperative need to reduce expenditure centres from an institutional point of view as well. We still cannot tackle health expenditure with 21 regional health systems, one different from the other and full of administrative burdens, which affect the efficiency of the system and, therefore, the right to health of citizens. We need to simplify the institutional framework in our country from an administrative point of view. We have said this during constitutional reforms and we are repeating it now. I think and hope that one day we will finally come to reason on this subject. Let us turn to the facts. After the big absent ones, we will see the little ones present. I remember the large absentees by list: the pensions to the minimum, the exodus, the Mezzogiorno and the safety sector, another great absentee that I have not yet commented analytically. In fact, the other great absentee in this law of stability is the security section of our forces of order, of our defence forces, which continue to have wages absolutely inferior to those they deserve and, in some cases, even under the limit of survival and which continue to increase the risk of their person, of their life, of the lives of their families in the daily and continuous great contrast that they do to organized crime, to daily crime and, today, also to terrorism. How is it possible, now that we will have to impose new rules, more attention and new provisions for the fight against terrorism, to call the Forces of Order to a further effort of attention, presence, to a further total sacrifice, without increasing their remuneration in a decent way? It is certainly not with an increase of eight euros per month that can be asked to the Forces of the order, already penalized by a block of the renewal of the contracts of long date, new sacrifices, new dedication and above all greater civic tension in the defense of our community. The little ones present: we recorded the elimination of the IMU-TASI from the first house, but also here remain absolutely unresolved issues. Apart from the fact that for years this measure had not only been announced but practiced by our governments, there are issues which, as the rapporteurs have said, have been resolved nominally but not quantitatively, such as those relating to the comfortable or those relating to the disabled. A number of quantitative stakes have been established. For example, the same agreed fee was simply reduced to 25 per cent of the threshold above 4% of IMU-TASI, while earlier it was suggested to exempt disabled people entirely. Therefore, a series of issues that will end up overturning on the real estate sector the few guiding measures left to the discretion of the municipalities, with a not indifferent increase for the use of maximum rates for the second houses and with the outlet valve, not completely regulated, of the tariffs of the public services. The latter will in fact increase. We will shortly have the revision of the land register and the introduction of the criterion of the square metre for the payment of the TARI, which means definitively establishing that the TARI is a capital tax and not a tariff on the services that the Municipality or the union of the Municipalities imposes on the citizens. We therefore expect, at the end of this manoeuvre, a further tightening of taxes on the real estate sector, also because the tax autonomy of the municipalities has been greatly restricted. I do not dwell on the mechanism, but if today we establish that what the Municipalities have decided the past year on the first house is charged to the State transferring to them the extent of their competences in this regard, it is clear that we establish a cast of the rates and the local financial maneuver, which takes us back to the times when the shields were raised because the Municipalities did not have tax autonomy. And it is precisely from the benches behind me that strong demands have come for an increase in the autonomy and the tax discretion of the Municipalities, that we have always tried to stem by putting stakes or establishing roofs. Today, precisely with the law of stability of a left-wing government, is established the plastering, the historicization of the tax rates of the municipalities on the house. In this way they are penalized, in a way I hope not irreversible - for this reason we have presented an agenda that urges the Government to intervene - those municipalities that, out of respect for their citizens, have kept the low rates while benefiting the municipalities - which we know are above all those that have given bad proof of themselves in the use of resources - that have raised the rates to the maximum and that today if they see them recognized directly by the Government. Hence, virtuous Commons are repaid in negative for their virtues. As far as the agricultural sector is concerned, I have spoken in the Commission, I have done a little more in-depth analysis of the entry and exit items, as they say, and we have shown that in that case, too, the prevailing voice is that of the penalty over the advantage. I conclude by saying that this is a law of stability in which the major issues are absent. There is only the problem of the first house, which I have indicated, however minimalized, and, as far as we are concerned, the increase in the limit of use of cash, a battle that we have been carrying out for years and therefore we gladly record the fact that the government today has also realized the opportunity to raise this threshold. For the rest, I do not want the reporters who have been very good and I thank them for their attention, there are only small interventions, the macro-economic framework escapes, escape the real needs of this country and the great sectors that suffer. These are small interventions that, I must say, have been inserted at times even giving way to the pressures, that have always been and always will be there, of lobbying or of individual parties but, I repeat, outside of an overall picture that can imagine a real development and recovery of our country. I close by saying that the maneuver on the elimination of safeguard clauses, for those who have not understood or read it, is limited to 2016. In 2017, given the approach of the current Stability Act, we will find the problem doubled by the presence of the old clauses that, eliminated for 2016, remain alive for 2017, of those that are expected to be active in 2017 and 2018 and of the new ones provided for by the Stability Act at our examination. In fact, the safeguard clause has now become a "target" always present in the laws of stability and here again there is an article that establishes the introduction of a new safeguard clause in the event that the so-called voluntary return of capital does not reach the revenue that has been provided by the Government. So the picture of the bill coming out of the Senate is minimal and I think it won't be any different what happens to the House. A picture that lacks positive prospects for our country and that can only bring us to the contrary vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u20	Mr Chiavaroli, rapporteur. Madam President, we have noticed that the dossier of the amendments approved in the Commission which we have presented to the House (which clearly shows the wording of the draft since we have finished very late this night) contains an error: the text of amendment 33.9000 included in the dossier is not the one approved by the Commission. This is an amendment relating to the CAFs. The Commission intended, in the face of a stability law that provided for a cut of EUR 100 million for CAFs for 2016, 2017 and 2018, to intervene by reducing the cut of EUR 60 million in 2016, EUR 30 million in 2017 and EUR 30 in 2018, thus maintaining a cut of EUR 40 million in 2016, EUR 70 million in 2017 and EUR 70 million in 2018. This is the amendment approved by the Commission, which will be distributed to the House in a correct manner as soon as possible. In the meantime, I wanted to warn my colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u23	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Madam President, I would like to make a statement to the House, although I believe that the fact is well known, having spoken late yesterday evening. Madam President, yesterday at 10 p.m. about the 5th Chamber of the Supreme Court of Cassation lodged an order annulling the request for an arrest warrant against Senator Azzollini. [[Applause from the PD, FI-Pdl XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE and Mixed Groups.]] All of us have lived this story intensely and we can only share and applaud this provision; then justice, as always, will follow its course. The position of President Azzollini, my Group and many Members of Parliament has always been consistent with respect for the principles of legality, respect for the rules and respect for jurisdiction. On that occasion, on 29 July, some groups left their members free of conscience and vote, while other parties publicly declared how they would vote; the friends of Forza Italia expressed themselves publicly, as well as us and other groups. I would like to pay tribute to and thank the Group of the Democratic Party and, in particular, President Zanda, who has given his colleagues freedom of vote, leaving them free to vote in accordance with conscience, and has thus enabled this Parliament to be in tune and to anticipate the decision that would be taken by the judges of the Supreme Court. Does that pose a question? No, it poses a theme: that of effective freedom of conscience and effective freedom of vote, not conditioned by political membership. In the past, we have found that sometimes Parliament, although in the secret vote, has obeyed party logics and therefore by vote according to party indications. This has not happened on this occasion, and I can only be satisfied with that. I should also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Senator Nico D'Ascola, for his exemplary speech, and also Mr Azzollini, who, in his speech, calm and respectful of the judiciary, set out his views. We are for the rules and for the respect of the rules. I believe that this moment marks a point of greater autonomy and, at the same time, of the credibility of this Parliament, which serenely shared what would be the judgment of the Supreme Court. There were few elements in support of the request for arrest and evidently there was also a fumus. I think that this Parliament can only mark a moment of further reflection for the future: every time we are called to vote on the freedom of people we will have to obey our conscience and not only to prejudice, whether justified or not, the indications of the parties. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u26	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Madam President, I will just say a few words. I believe that the caution invoked must always be applied. Given that there are still no reasons on the Azzollini issue, that this is a referral to the court to assess and that such referral could also be caused by a technical element, I would avoid all these assessments on the merits and, as the 5 Star Movement, we consider them completely out of place. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u27	I declare the joint general discussion open. Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u28	Madam President, we all agree that security is not an expense, but an investment, because it protects citizens and their property. Now, the firefighters of Padua have an autoscale bought forty-one years ago and the Government, in the mission of civil relief under this law of stability, cuts 138 million to prevention and public aid. An air trumpet devastated the Brenta Riviera and the Government rejects all proposals to help families and businesses, accepting only the commitment not to tax the repair costs for the affected companies. It is a promise, while our amendments were made and it could be done right away! The absolute scarcity of resources used in the light of the Jubilee and the significant risks to security and public order are problems that we had put in writing weeks ago, before the massacres in Paris. Well, on the financing of the parties you have pretended to cut, only for beauty; to the gambling lobby you still grant a sanatoria and the possibility to maintain the ownership of the infrastructure networks of management. In the police force, cut off half a billion euros, cut off overtime, cut off the Anti-Mafia Investigation Directorate, cut 20 percent at Anti-Corruption. The Brescia Road Police on eleven vehicles can use only four, one of which comes from Milan. If you respected Senator Scanu's motion, which is then from the Democratic Party, and you halved the expenses for the defective bomber fighters, we would have 6.5 billion for the necessary expenses. We asked for 20 million for intelligence, to be spent here, in Italy, to protect our territory and you denied them. Madam President, I welcome the invitation from the rapporteur, Mrs Zanoni, and also the compliments she has given us because we did not obstruct. We have put forward proposals and made an effort to help improve this measure, but this effort is now in vain and the rapporteur, Mrs Chiavaroli, says: more will have to be done in the House of Deputies. Why the House? Because there will be yet another trust. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I invite you to conclude. ENDRIZZI (M5S). I shall conclude, Madam President. There will be yet another confidence because of the haste of a government that has delayed 15 days for its own responsibility. Then, between the minutes of silence that we have recently celebrated in this House and those that we do not wish to celebrate in the future, there is our responsibility, there are those who exercise it and those who do not. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u29	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u30	Madam President, thank you. The time available to me is very short and I shall confine myself to some reflections in fractions of a second, but I ask politely that my speech...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u31	You have three minutes and we'll deposit your surgery. I'll take it. Please speak for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u32	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). In my three minutes, Madam President, I would ask you to attach the text of my speech. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I already gave it to him. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're welcome. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). I would therefore like to reflect - without taking away anything from my fellow Members who have accepted it - on this practice of giving the groups in this House the opportunity to intervene for a very limited time, which, as far as Forza Italia is concerned, is about 30-35 minutes, a time when, in my opinion, nothing can be discussed, and on another factor which, in my opinion, is very serious, i.e. that of having already decided on the 2016 stability law, trust is being placed. This is a very serious fact. Therefore, considering that both the limitation of time and the imposition of confidence are two very serious facts, I believe that there is nothing to say, but there is only to be noted that there is no willingness on the part of the Government and of colleagues who represent the majority to seriously discuss a very important measure, which is the law of stability. I shall therefore confine myself to asking, as I have already done, to be able to attach my speech to the report and to hope that democracy will be put first in the near future and that there will be a sense of responsibility on the part of Members representing the majority and that they will give more room for discussion on serious issues such as the law of stability. I hope so for the future because to date I have not seen this sense of responsibility on the part of the majority. In conclusion, I want to say with great force and full conviction that the greatest responsibility is not so much for Renzi, as President of the Council and the Government, but for the Members of Parliament who, in this House, are being expropriated of their role with the request for a vote of confidence. This is a very serious fact, which can be attributed to Renzi but which must be attributed more to those Members who accept such conditions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Del Barba is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u33	Madam President, government gentlemen, senators and fellow senators, what we are dealing with today in this House is finally a law of stability that we can without hesitation define as expansive; a law of stability that meets the needs of the country by acting on all the levels of flexibility that are delivered to the readiness of those who prepare the public maneuver; a law of stability that basically represents a state of progress works on the great construction site of the reforms: not - as often happens - a moment in itself of simple correction of the accounts or a moment in which they recover, even in a drowning manner, all those measures that during the year have not found room, but a time of surgery, deeply consistent with the reforms that have been implemented and are being implemented. In short, in a single word we can say that it is a law of stability with the most sign and that, if seen and linked to the whole of the reforms in place, it can be said that it is characterized by a threefold positive sign, to use the language of financial analysts. Let us then try to enter a little more into the merit of this clear positive sign than stability. Meanwhile, the precious stimulus to recruitment is confirmed, which in 2015 has clearly borne fruit in terms of both the employed and the contribution to GDP growth. This important measure, which is confirmed, although in lower percentages than last year, is accompanied by important measures that go both in the direction of consumer support and in the direction of a reduction in taxes. Therefore, a coherent double intervention that acts on demand and supply and that is clearly proposed to engage the recovery with this expansionary contribution of the public hand. A reduction in taxes which in this intervention is clearly marked - perhaps even the most obvious aspect - by a paradoxically invisible sterilization of safeguard clauses. These are not virtual taxes, they are taxes that would have taken place under current legislation, but, as we know well, since they have not yet lived on the skin of those who should pay them then, clearly their sterilization has a much less psychological effect than the one that would have achieved their elimination. However, it cannot but be emphasized the providential intervention of sterilization of the safeguard clauses, the lack of which would have prevented to engage the growth; these clauses would have been a weight, a burden, perhaps decisive in the negative sense in this country. So the most important aspect is perhaps the least visible one. Even without evoking such an important aspect from the dimensional point of view, what you see, what remains on the table, is equally significant and deserves to be taken up again. The reduction of taxes is also due to the most striking measure contained in this bill of stability, namely the elimination of the tax on the first house, a measure which has also been criticized by the European Union in recent days. And we do not escape the recommendations that come from many parts, of which we absolutely take the sense, to shift taxation more and more on consumption by removing it from income and work. But the sign of this tax relief becomes even more positive if we read it at least in the three years, if it is accompanied by the measure of 80 euros last year, the relief of the IRAP, the relief or even the elimination of social security contributions for the next two years; if it is accompanied by the forecasts that in this same law of stability are made regarding the possibility of decreasing the IRES and the IRPEF. So, then, the relief of taxes, taken in its entirety, goes to aim exactly at the directions that are recommended. This year, focusing on the first house, probably also deserves further appreciation the peculiarity of the Italian situation compared to the property of the first houses. If then I wanted to emphasize those that, taken individually, could be criticisms (even if the sign of lightening is appreciated by everyone), but now I want to highlight, always on this measure, aspects that are completely indisputable of fundamental importance. First of all, there is finally clarity on a subject which has been - let me say the word, ladies and gentlemen - a little messy in recent years: how many times have we put our hands on this subject with excellent intentions - I am thinking of those at the beginning of the parliamentary term - but perhaps with bad results? Well, we today, in addition to the signal we give to the owners of the first house, who in Italy are a very high percentage, finally give a signal of clarity in this sector. There is no wonder that I also use this term: there is also a sign, which in other countries would not be grasped, of a redistributive character in removing the tax on the first house; a peculiar sign in our country, because we have always encouraged our citizens to invest in their home. There is also a stimulus to the economy, because the construction sector is strongly in crisis and we give a positive signal to a whole sector. Well, we intervene by sterilizing the effect of abolishing the tax on the first house to the municipalities, but this is not the only good news we give to the municipal administrations. At last we pension the Stability Pact, giving local administrators the tools to contribute more to the relaunch of our country, going to free important investment figures that lie in the treasures of our municipalities and letting each city council member to the budget, each mayor can face these times with freedom that is due to him. I should like to conclude, Madam President, by referring to one aspect, if you want secondary, contained in the work of the Budget Commission, which has improved the positive aspects I have already mentioned. Well, the Budget Commission has considered that it also includes in this stability law a measure which may seem to be secondary, the measure which introduces into our system the so-called benefit societies, which pursue in their statutes, in addition to the natural objective of achieving profit, that of achieving a second social or environmental objective. We are the first in the world, after the United States, to take a step of this kind. In my opinion, this is no accident. This Parliament has gathered a great deal of sensitivity in our country, and is shaping the ability of our entrepreneurs and our citizens to contribute in an original way to a sustainable development of the planet, which will certainly help to make a decisive contribution to environmental problems, climate change and also security and peace. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u34	Senator Casaletto is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u35	Madam President, all the resources mobilised by this stability law, some 36 billion, are not intended for development and growth, but for the achievement of further flexibility and mortification of wage labour and welfare. A law of stability functional to that mission of social restructuring of the whole of Europe, beginning with the States of the South, which the President of the Council, with the Minister of Economy, know well to have to carry out. This law of stability favors those who have more and creates difficulties for people who need and need to live their work. In this vision of the country of the "great events," as if we were an amusement park, with the vain hope of attracting some investment preparatory to the formation of millions of cooks and lifeguards, they feed a war between poor Italians and poor migrants, exploited as low labour, while we silently assist to a plan of deindustrialization that is dismantling and selling out the best Italian enterprises for a process of globalization and flattening incomprehensible. This is also the idea that the leading classes of Europe have of Italy: a resort of their own property, where they come to admire panoramas and monuments and make good purchases of strategic assets at a good price. The part of the weakest Italians is still vexed and abandoned in line with this vision; the stabilization of the 80 euro bonus could be a signal, but it continues to exclude a large part of those who are most suffering the recessionary effects of the crisis, i.e. the incapients and pensioners. In the area of social security, the exponential increase in taxation applied to pension fund yields will penalise workers with an increase in taxation, also giving yet another sign of uncertainty. You should therefore go back to encouraging social security savings. Not to mention the "finally stable" recruitment of the jobs act; and we are seeing the results: the reduction of the second level bargaining fund, the advance in pay envelope of the TFR, which applies only to workers in the private sector and not to the public sector. This Stability Act already provides for a reduction of 150 million in funding for the Patronage Institutions by 2015. The government once again strikes the weakest citizens who find daily assistance, listening ability and help in distancing themselves between the red tape. This law is not expansive and could only become expansive if Parliament intervenes on what is lacking: employment, pensions. If there are no elements for youth employment and the absence of a change in the Fornero law, it is a further slowdown compared to the possibility of giving employment and turnover assumptions for young people. Public opinion is drugged, deprived of those who are able to propose a rag of critical analysis; few algebraic operations carried out on official documents of government source, would suffice to understand the direction of this maneuver. The Italian government deficit will continue to grow by more than 5 billion in 2016, resulting in a number of recessionary effects linked to a net reduction in public expenditure of 3.5 billion, which will negatively affect aggregate demand levels and therefore growth. The European Commission has already sent us back to September because we risk moving away from the required adjustment towards a balanced budget, with the structural deficit that will deteriorate by 0.5% instead of improving by 0.1%. It is a matter of warning that in this case the flexibility margins, by which they will be covered in deficit expenditure, many of the measures envisaged will not be granted in a few months' time and, in that case, corrective action will have to be taken. And should we still accept tax maneuvers for deficit reduction spending, when we have now disemboweled our economy, destroyed our companies, families, rights and human lives? The intentions of this liberal oligarchy are clear: market logics must replace the social state, the Constitutions and the compression of income from work without alternatives. [[Applause from Senators De Pin and Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u36	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u37	Madam President, the 5 Star Movement denounces the fact that, unfortunately, not even justice has been excluded from the government target in this law of stability. In my very brief speech I will mention three points which we consider extremely serious and which are moving in one direction - I am talking about the points concerned, because of stability, from cuts in various budget items relating to the action of justice - which we consider absolutely unreasonable First of all I am referring to the cut in figures over EUR 6 million for 2016 and EUR 7 million for 2017 to compensation and allowances for peace judges and honorary magistrates who, as well as those who are not in charge of the work, now hold up more than half of the entire national civil and criminal dispute. If these cuts in the technical report, with reference to the honorary judges of the court (GOT) and Deputy Honorary Prosecutors (VPO), are justified with a later decrease in the number of judgments assigned to the honorary magistrates - all to be verified - for the judges of peace this is not, all the more in the light of the fact that the reform, under discussion in these days to the Senate Justice Commission, provides for extensions of competences of the judges of peace. We do not see how these cuts in the compensation and compensation of these Italian justice bodies can find a rational justification. Absolutely absurd is the cut - albeit of only 4 million - which affects a percentage close to 10% of the resources allocated to the ministerial fund for the recovery of the efficiency of the judicial system and for the completion of the civil and telematic process. Just as the President-in-Office of the Council announces and exalts the savings made by the use of computer digitization in the world of justice and the courts, we are witnessing a cut of which we do not understand the justification. Finally, with reference to the so-called Pinto law, that is to say to the procedure for the compensation that citizens require before the court of appeal for the reasonable duration of the trials, here too we have noticed a government intervention that, beyond the accelerating intentions for the claims for compensation, has a half of the amount of compensation to be paid to citizens for each year following those foreseen as reasonable duration of the trials. This will also lead to a penalty for citizens who will adjure justice in order to have a sacrosanct compensation for the inefficiency of the Italian justice machine that the Government, with these measures, seems to want to encourage paradoxically. In the budget committee we have tabled amendments which have been rejected. Some other political force has also done so on some of these points. We trust that, in the context of a major amendment, on which the Government - we have intuition - will put its trust, it will remedy these voices and these cuts which go in a direction absolutely contrary to what the President of the Council himself announced in his press releases. The 5 Star Movement is here. Our vote and our determination to save the salvageable in this law that we do not like done - to use a very moderate term - are there and we stand firm in our positions trusting that the Government wants to move from a more reasonable perspective, at least in the field of justice. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u38	I call on all Members to speak to respect the time allocated in order to maintain the proper conduct of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u39	Senator Amidei is now registered to speak for four minutes. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u40	Madam President, my time is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u41	Then I'll correct myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u42	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Maybe I can also finish my speech before the time allotted to me, since it is contingent and this limits us in being able to express and deepen the various aspects of the law of stability. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, more than stability, the law we are examining is a law of instability, which, in its content, contains the fundamental error of trying to give or, above all, pretending to give. I use the classic expression that with one hand is given and with two is removed. And we see this in various aspects of it, but fundamentally in the fact that that fundamental strategy is not implemented so that the country will return to growth: a strategy of detaxation, detaxation that allows companies to find impetus to grow. But this cannot happen as long as it is pretended to be, and then we will also see it through a few points on which I shall dwell briefly. Indeed, companies do not benefit from this law of stability, for which we cannot be content with the argument - as I have also heard from the rapporteurs this morning - that the country is growing. But for what? It is growing of the zero comma or something slightly greater than the zero comma, which is not enough to solve the big problem that afflicts our country today. I am referring to unemployment and, in particular, youth unemployment, which has reached unqualifiable levels for a country like ours which is among the first, or perhaps has been one in history, at the industrial level; youth unemployment which reaches 50% is unacceptable. It burned a generation. Today we have young people of 35-40 years who have never worked and who have to their assets perhaps a few years of contribution. What future will this generation have? When will you retire? Who will pay their pensions or even those of other people who will have to rely on them to be able to benefit from help during the years of quietness? But let us now turn to the substance of some measures. A great deal has been said about the agricultural IMU these days. It is said that the IMU for agricultural land has been removed. But what does it mean to remove the IMU from agricultural land when a 30% increase in the revaluation of Sunday income, agricultural income only in 2016, and when already in the previous three years 2013, 2014 and 2015 has re-evaluated each year by 15 percent? Basically in three years there has been a doubling of the revaluation of Sunday income, of agricultural income. Therefore, the primary sector is not at all facilitated. At the moment when the facilities on agricultural diesel are not restored, which is the fuel that allows to create activities within the agricultural activity, it means that we do not want to help agriculture. And when we move from the revaluation of land with a tax cost from 4% to 8% or we decide to remove small companies the exemption from the tax regime of which they enjoyed up to a turnover of 7,000 euros, it means not so much a gain for the country in terms of taxation, but a huge tax burden on those small companies, which - fortunately - will probably not deal with crops, but are a fundamental mesh in our country as regards the keeping of the environment, the maintenance of the territory and the beauty of which our country is proud. So what should we do when we pretend to intervene, as we did a few months ago, when the so-called simplification and relaunching of the agricultural sector law was adopted? But where is this simplification? I still have to see her. Every time there has been talk of simplification, it has only been complicated, it is a fact. What about when, at some point, the registration tax passes - for non-farmers, for goodness sake, why should this also be said - from 12 to 15 percent? But do you think that charging 15 instead of 12 percent to buyers of agricultural land is not an increase in costs in the agricultural economy? It is clear that, at a certain point, who buys (who, having the possibility to pay such a high tax, maybe does not grow) then pours the same on rents. There is, therefore, an economy which is fundamentally unable to take off because of the ineffectiveness of action against taxation. I start at the conclusion, as the red light flashes on my microphone. With regard to Article 27, as last year, I am the first signatory to a request for amendment of Article 45 of Law No 99 of 23 July 2009. In Article 27 I have proposed the insertion of paragraph 10-a, which is aimed at ensuring that, in those territories where there are plants for the cultivation of hydrocarbons as well as regasification activities through fixed offshore plants, instead of the aid that should come as a result of the excises obtained, for the development of the economic sector in the territory, as well as the so-called social card, which has not produced any effect on the territory, is restored at least the logical one of the discount to the pump. In particular, off Porto Viro, on the Adriatic Sea, in the province of Rovigo, there is a regasifier: that at least citizens gain an advantage with the discount on the fuel pump. I shall conclude, Madam President, in order to be in the time allocated to me. I heard the rapporteur, Mrs Zanoni, who said earlier that we are seeing a growing macroeconomic framework: but what increase? From the frame, maybe. However, the picture is missing, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The picture is missing, if not that of a dying country, it needs strong actions to grow; we do not do anything about the growing macroeconomic framework. We actually act to boost this country. But let us really do it and not with this law, which in my opinion does not affect and is irrelevant and ineffective. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u43	We greet the students of the Liceo delle Scienze, Salesian Institute of Villa Sora in Frascati, in the province of Rome. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u44	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u45	Madam President, Deputy Minister Morando is a pleasure to have you as a representative of the Government, also because you - we can say - are an old barracks man: you know very well the budgetary issues and the subject we are talking about. It was once a budget law; then - and it was called a financial one - it was the rule that changed the budget posts; today we call it the law of stability. But we can also call you, Deputy Minister, "prestigious law," but we should call it "prestigious law" soon. The bill should reach the Chambers by October 15th, but on October 15th we had only the slides that President Renzi had announced: a financial law of stability of prestige, made exclusively of announcements. We were going to propose amendments on the slides presented by the government. And this is where the prestige is manifested: the apparitions and the disappearances. The Renzi Government in the last financial manoeuvre had brought VAT on pellets from 10 to 22%. He then announced that it would bring it back to 10%, but out of the 5th Commission it returned to 22% again. The measures are implemented, disappear, come back into force and then reset. Same speech for the IMU on agricultural buildings. This government introduced it in the last financial year, this government takes it away with great emphasis. Nothing: it sets, removes, recovers, reduces. The same applies to taxes on the first house. The Centro-Rextra Governments had taken it off, the Centro-Left Governments introduced it. The Renzi government announced that it would take it away for all houses (I put it, I take it away) and in the end it will not remain, excluding only the noble houses, the villas and so on. Can we go on kidding the Italians? I repeat: can we continue to mock the Italians? Why do I cast my hand on Italians? The government finds the resources to pay accident insurance to prisoners and foreigners who carry out socially useful work. We have volunteers, who we call "grandparents vigilant" who, alas, have never been to jail, are not even foreigners and therefore have the fault of being Italian. And that's why we didn't find the resources to pay for accident insurance? Does this look like a normal country to you? Is that possible? Yes, it is a measure that we find in the provisions of this finance. There is a war going on in the European capitals. I believe that we Italians in these last nights have slept little because between Paris and Hamburg, and waking up the morning after the Paris bombing with the St. Denis raid, we are all in apprehension and wondering what is happening. The government continues to reassure: we have the Security Forces and the Security Forces that calm, fortunately, but let's see what is recognized in the security sector: they cut 750 million euros. The Forces of the Order complain about the insufficiency of structures and equipment, even insufficient clothing, and the sector is penalized by 750 million. There are three million Italians waiting for something to happen. Since 2008 it has been announced to them that they would have wage improvements, but this promise has been postponed from year to year. Since 2008 it has been more than seven years. However, three million people in the public service are rewarded with 300 million wage adjustments: 300 million out of three million people. To the security sector - now more than ever called to extraordinary efforts and to give more - will go 74 million which, considering the sector as a whole, means an increase of about seven euros per month to police officer, with the illusion that soon there will be a restructuring and the reorganization of careers, which instead continues to slip. I am sorry that we will not be able to deal with an agenda. I wonder, in fact, if the taxpayer citizen can allocate 5 per thousand of his taxes to the various associations, some of which we have even seen in the streets devastate and counter public security, then why can't he allocate his 5 per thousand to the Forces of order since it wouldn't change anything for the State and wouldn't cost anything more since the 5 per thousand is already implemented? I would like to be able to discuss an agenda that calls on the citizens to decide who to give, between the two components that sometimes clash violently in the streets, their own 5 per thousand, also because all these categories and the same security sector, at this point, will slip increasingly towards the state of poverty and poverty; after which perhaps they will be able to benefit at least from the 80 euros that are given to all those who are under a certain threshold. This government action is reprehensible. I would like to close by saying that it is not enough to look at the budget and the law of stability; let us look at what happens in parallel because the Government has already issued a decree-law, no. 154 of 2015 where, while it is said that we must help incomes and strengthen domestic demand since there are no resources, we are going to cut the social fund for employment and training that is what the Regions continue to negotiate when a company is in crisis or a group is in crisis and we try to find a social shock absorber. Well, out of 100 million euros, 50 are cut to give it to the functionality of school buildings, that is promises on one side and cuts on the other. We promise everyone and in the end, since the blanket is always that, on the one hand you have to play. That's why it's a great prestigious game. Well, our position is extremely negative on this law of stability but it will be better explained by the colleague who will speak in the explanation of vote. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bianco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u47	Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, the members of the 5th Commission and its President, Mr Tonini, whom I have appreciated these days. Thanks also to the Government because, even in the distinction and dialectic of roles, they have all demonstrated a great and tenacious patience, a great willingness, great skills and above all great responsibility to the complexity of the problem. I offer the House's debate the most important considerations which have emerged in the reflection of the 12th Commission on the health issue which we know is one of those issues which will find further solutions and further assessments during the second reading of the bill in the House. I'll do it quickly and quickly, as I can. Firstly, the issue of public funding that the law of stability assigns to the National Health Service can be read in so many ways, in absolute value, compared with previous years, as a percentage of GDP, as a percentage of expenditure and benchmark with European countries. But the real problem is whether or not it is suitable to support a service that we want to be universal, without further adjective, fair and solidarity. Reports of third, national and international agencies, last that of the OECD, tell us that net of hyperbolic and perhaps not sufficiently valid estimates of waste, inappropriateness and defensive behavior that, we understand, there are but, most likely, not in the terms in which they are reported, our National Health Service has supported, of course, highlighting creaks and cracks in the access to services, widening some historical inequalities of our country, but has governed and has governed to slimming care that have not been recently in these years. This means that the National Health Service, as we would say in football jargon, has the basic good and robust. Protecting those fundamentals means guaranteeing a future to the values of universalism and equity that are within so many rights, constitutionally protected, of the healthy person and of the sick person. So, please, let the return plans for companies in deficit come well and let the quantitative assessment of the essential levels of assistance (LEA), the old and the new (finally the new LEA, after fifteen years). In short, it is a good thing that an oversight has been corrected in the text, which excluded the evaluation of the new LEAs by the parliamentary committees. We welcome the unique purchasing power stations, including specific sanitary product categories. But let us be clear: every penny (not just every euro) recovered in this way in health must remain in health for the needs of public health. On the other hand, I am concerned about another approach, which concerns the setting up of single health companies. I say this because this happens without a serious reflection on the companyization, the meaning and the development that this has had in many years in our National Health Service. I am also concerned about the possible amalgamation of hospital universities, not because of ideological prejudices, but because they cross two deeply different systems; and let me say, for one who has lived for a long time in the sector, proudly different. I refer to Legislative Decree No. 517 of 1999, which is the reference matrix for the conventions between universities and hospitals, and to Legislative Decree No. 502 of 1992, and subsequent additions, which regulates hospital companies. More attention should be paid to the matrix and the mediation between two profoundly different legal states, because otherwise this creates areas of confusion and possible conflicts and certainly creates a bit of disorder in the system. My final point - and I conclude - is the question of staff. I believe that the question of staff is not just, as it certainly is, to put economic positions in order to correspond to the renewal of long-term contracts and to give at least a breath to turnover in the most delicate situations, where the application of the European directive will no longer allow the use and add the abuse of shifts, overtime, jumping rest and so on. It is a more fundamental problem and it is also a problem of cultural approach. We cannot continue to look at the staff, at this incredible universe of professionals, men and women of high competence and high responsibility, as at a cost voice of the system; we can no longer read it like this. These people are the resources of the National Health Service, they are the resources of our country. Then every necessary innovation process (all innovations, including those of welfare, organizational and management models) must be able to recruit them within itself. Changing direction is always difficult. Changing to health is very difficult; without or against professionals, changing to health care I think it is impossible. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u48	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u49	Madam President, the environment is not there and, while our country is shipwrecked as every year, the State allocates only crumbs for the hydrogeological failure, against the 2 billion per year of Clini's forecasts. Meanwhile, the Court of Auditors estimates in 1.5 billion the expenditure incurred by the State for emergencies in recent years. Then, at the upcoming XXI Conference of the Parties (COP 21), we read, in Table 9, of increasing and linear cuts precisely to the law of the Convention on Climate Change. But we all know that we are the country of unblocking-Italy, drilling and incinerators, in which, according to the State's Accounting Office, excise exemptions on fuel consumption for 2014 amount to 5.7 billion euros, without including some forms of non-subjectibility. According to data from the Energy Services Manager (GSE) within component A3 of the general system charges the subsidies for fossil power plants through the equivalent mechanism were, in 2012, equal to more than 2 billion euros and in 2013 - let us remember - a subsidy for fuel oil plants was introduced to prevent the possible gas emergency situations estimated at 260 million euros in the first year, regardless of whether or not there are risks to gas supplies. We also learn from a study a few years ago that only 1% of the environmental taxes paid by Italian citizens and businesses to the state and local authorities are intended to prevent the environment. We therefore feel it is essential and urgent to intervene on environmental taxation, moving towards a courageous carbon tax that finally goes towards decarbonisation, to eliminate the many environmental externalities, the privileges and the revenues and free up the resources indispensable for the environment and for investment. The OECD itself, in its 2013 recommendations to Italy, highlighted this very need. In addition, we believe that the creation of a single environmental fund is necessary to bring together all environmental taxation and the many environmental sanctions. As time passes here and nothing happens, the world awaits the response of two epochal sentences. In Manila and New York the greats of oil, gas and coal could be condemned for human rights violations and the disastrous impacts of global warming. These are fifty companies, including ENI. There is evidence that for almost thirty years the largest companies have been aware that their activities are the source of climate change and that they have deliberately planned communication campaigns to deny evidence, paid scientists, and lobbed politics to avoid punitive laws. If a court recognizes it officially it will be a severe blow to reputation and consequently, hopefully, to the political influence of the big fossil companies. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u50	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u51	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today in general debate to give an assessment of a law of stability that we have dealt with, as regards the Fare Group!, with seriousness and a great sense of responsibility, participating constantly in the marathon - pass me the term - that the work of the Budget Commission imposed, conditioned by the short time allowed to the Senate to evaluate its content. Certainly, a word of thanks goes to the reporters, who for professionalism, availability and great openness towards all of the compañeras have been able to make a job really excellent. I would also like to thank the offices, the President of the Commission and the Government for the constant presence of Deputy Minister Morando, who has always given clear and concrete answers beyond the final choices. The main criticisms are about time, ahead of our work. At first reading at the Senate the law of stability and find ourselves chasing the time, finding ourselves day by day empty of contents on which we can reason together in order to be able to improve with incisiveness the text with that constructive spirit that distinguishes us and on the basis of concrete proposals or better concrete needs that people outside are waiting for. One piece at a time we have been taken away from fundamental issues, necessary measures for which everything will then be discussed in the House. Sure, another ride, a chance, but not here in the Senate. These are important issues, such as the issues of pensions, exodus, women's option, as well as the whole theme of games, which is very sensitive in various respects, not only of an economic nature but also of a social nature. There are also other aspects that I would not like to dwell on and which we could discuss, in particular a lack of concrete and direct work on spending cuts. Entering into the content, as expressed in the debate in the Budget Committee, the greatest doubts go on the projection of the multiannual period, which sees a negative impact on the lot of the safeguard clauses relating to VAT and excise duties, which are, however, postponed to 2017, as well as of course the new clauses included in this Stability Act. We therefore wonder what the effects will be for 2017 and 2018, if these clauses will then come into force and if you will succeed in having a policy like the one you have proposed for 2016. In addition, the temporary nature of some covers creates a further difficulty. Therefore, in the face of interventions that see us sharing choices on taxation, on buildings, on the attention to the weak and the families (surely also positive aspects in whose direction our amendments have gone and also the work that we have always done leads to these answers), we wonder if in fact more courageous interventions could and should have been done on tax expenditure. Perhaps pockets of waste could be identified within a more timely and targeted spending review. I would also like to stress the attention to the virtuous Municipalities, that iniquity which many have highlighted, which through a compensatory refreshment penalizes the mayors who, choosing them despite the few resources available to them to prevent further harassment of their citizens, have applied a taxation to the minimum by providing equally services. Finally, there is the uncertainty arising from a continuous regulatory adjustment that does not allow companies and households to have the serenity necessary for an increase in investment and consumption that only certainty and stability - I repeat - can give. Finally, I would like to make one particular remark regarding the depressed and mountainous areas, which we had put to the attention with amendments that were going in the direction of ensuring that citizens could continue to live in those areas where everything is more expensive and difficult in economic terms. So there is no denying the desire to ensure that this maneuver can be defined as expansive but, once again, our vision moves on strengthening decisive choices in terms of stability and equity and a real and timely fight against waste, which cannot only be reduced to linear cuts but which must lead to the implementation of the policy of standard costs, for which we have always spent, in order to affect concretely and put a brake on the increase in debt by reducing its scope. It is a debt that unfortunately exposes us to the heavy judgment of the European Union that, like a sword of Damocles, could heavily affect not only all the content of this law of stability but also the future process of growth of the country. [[Applause from the Mixed-Fare Group! and Senators Romani Maurizio and Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u52	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u53	Madam President, Mr Morando, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the work they have done and also to express my satisfaction at the fact that Senator Tonini was good at choosing two women as rapporteurs for the measure. This seems to me to be an important innovation which needs to be highlighted. [[Applause from Senator Silvestro.]] This is the first reading and, of course, as the rapporteurs and the Government have told us in the Budget Committee, the measure will be substantially modified in the House. It is therefore a summary judgment, but some things are understood and are quite clear. The philosophy of this law of stability is apparently expansive. In 2014 in our country there was a fact that seems contradictory and serious: on the one hand, the economic crisis of the country has been highlighted and, at the same time, the saving has increased, especially the private one. This means that people earned overall less but were even more afraid in spending. This law aspires to give answers. I have no doubt that the increase in the limit on the use of cash is appreciable; I have no doubt that the abolition of the tax on the first house is welcome; I welcome the fact that the rapporteur, Mrs Zanoni, mentioned in her report Confindustria's opinion on this stability law: these are positive signs that we are not in the grip of a negative ideological situation. However, there are a number of inconsistencies that have been highlighted by the minority rapporteur, Mr D'Alì, and the members of the Forza Italia Mandelli, Mr Ceroni and Mr Boccardi's Budget Committee (but I will not dwell on the details). This law, ladies and gentlemen, contains an original sin that seems insurmountable and insurmountable to me: it does not actually lead to a real cut in public spending. The Renzi Government presented itself almost two years ago in Parliament: it came to the Senate, made a speech, announced reforms, such as the abolition of a thousand useless public bodies, at central and peripheral level. Well, I acknowledge Renzi's determination to pursue institutional reforms beyond substance. We are moving towards the abolition of the Senate or a very significant diversification; then it will be the Italian citizens who will decide, in a year's time, whether this is a good or not good reform and therefore at the level of democracy I am quiet because it will be the citizens who will express themselves. Jobs act is a delegated law that has had its concretization and goes in a certain direction. However, I am very slow in other areas. Public administration reform and public works reform are delegated laws, but the delegations have not yet been exercised and the practical implementation of these measures has not been achieved. I repeat, the thing that worries the country above all is the fact that in terms of cutting public spending there is no ability to affect by the Government; that will and determination that Renzi has placed in other sectors in this are not recorded. On this level, Madam President, we need to be clear about this. You know, we are now talking about achieving a certain kindness on the part of Europe: the costs involved in the security sector will not be taken into account, and so on; investment in public works will be made. Great, but two plus two is always four. If we do not cut public spending, we must first remember that we have a very large public debt; it is not the fault of the last governments, but it is a fact that cannot be ignored. Secondly, beyond what Europe demands, markets must be taken into account. If Italy increases its public debt considerably, then the markets penalize us, the Italian bonds will not be acquired and we will enter a negative spiral. If you cut a tax then you will actually have to increase others, because two plus two will always make four. This maneuver, beyond what are the inconsistencies and the negative details, in my opinion does not deserve a favorable vote, precisely because it is not incisive and does not implement a true reform, a real rethinking of what is the attitude of the country on the level of rationalization of spending. Of the thousand public bodies one has not been cut, and it is not clear if one will be cut, neither in 2016, nor in 2017, nor in 2018. Then, in 2017 or 2018 we will have the elections, and then we hope for the future. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, when you listen to us from outside, with this bill of stability, the Commission, in the field of defence and security, in particular, has once again demonstrated the lack of two fundamental qualities to govern. I am referring to foresight and the ability to analyse. This government invests most of the resources in the development of the war industry and the purchase of armaments, while at the moment it operates coarse cuts, in the security sector. Specifically, there are cuts of 13 million euros to the extraordinary fund of the State Police, cuts of 88 million euros for the fight against organized crime, cuts of 137 million euros to the Arma dei Carabinieri and the protection of public order and security. And again, cuts for 190 million euros to the planning of coordination of the Forces of Order; cuts for one million and 850,000 euros for operating expenses of the Anti-Mafia Investigation Directorate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But what does he invest in? Let's go see. There are the famous funding for the F35: as many as 13 billion. And we are also talking about the occult budget of the Ministry of Defence, which is hidden within the Ministry of Economic Development. There are, respectively, 100 million, 120 million and 150 million for the next three years for the purchase of the naval units of the FREMM. Consider that at the Ministry of Economics and Finance there are 937 million probably destined to finance international missions. Not to mention Afghanistan. Consider that, after EUR 5 billion, EUR 185 million is allocated this year. Minister Pinotti said something hallucinating, and here the hypocrisy that you all showed should end; think that 65,000 is the number of military deaths in Afghanistan. But what are we doing? Let's go train people destined to die! Madam President, I am about to finish. The 5 Star Movement has tabled amendments, which have been rejected in the Budget Committee. They planned to eliminate funding for war missions and to devote them to internal security. Excuse me if I get angry.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u55	I'm doing this for her. Look, I just want her to be okay.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u56	SANTANGELO (M5S). But I do it for the citizens who are outside, because this wall of hypocrisy must be broken. There are no "A" and "B" deaths! This policy, which is supine to the foreign and defence policy of the United States, must end. We need to think about the security of this country! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I hope that the Government will be able to remedy in some way, in the maxi amendment that has not yet arrived, and that we are here to look forward to it. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u57	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u58	Madam President, representatives of the Government, senators and senators, we are discussing this public finance manoeuvre as a framework for economic and employment recovery develops. For 2016, according to estimates attached to the 2015 DEF, a planned growth rate of 1.6% is expected. 12:02 p.m. (Following Mr Pezzopane). Moreover and unfortunately, this debate takes place while the serious and dramatic events in Paris call the attention of governments and our institutions to face the new fears of extremist Islamic terrorism. Those are difficult days. The communications of the ministers Alfano and Gentiloni, the statements of President Renzi convince me that Italy is taking the right path to face this dramatic emergency. But it is not an easy situation. A higher level of security is needed to be achieved through new resources to be directed towards strengthening intelligence and presence systems on the ground. In this maneuver, as in the interventions for Expo and for the Jubilee, actions have already been taken in countertrend with respect to the cuts of the past: they have unlocked assumptions for 5,500 suitable and I hope that soon there will also find space the unblocking of the ranking of the Finance Guard and the young prefects usable also within the section of the secret services. I very much appreciate the Government's commitment to further and urgently strengthen these measures in the transition to the House. The bill of stability really provides for many important things in the field of culture, such as intervention for equalized music institutions, research, such as the 200 new recruits of researchers, education, social policies. The interventions resulting from some innovations included with amendments of the PD components of the Commission's work and other senators, including Vice-President Fedeli, which I thank, such as the baby sitting vouchers and leave for dads, are also important. Now I hope that the valuable work done by the Commission will also work on women's option, exodus, DIS-Coll, active labour policies, call centres and more will find a different attention from the Government in the next steps, as decided in the approval of specific agendas. And the South certainly deserves more attention. On this issue, although it has developed a positive debate, it has not been possible to follow up further speeches, with the consequent disappointment of all. I am sure, however, that Mr Morando will follow up on the issues raised in the Commission debate and on the agenda presented by Mr Ruta and myself. The measures for growth and a more European tax system are important, just as I find the very positive actions in the field of social policies, housing policy and poverty essential. I thank President Tonini, the members of the Commission work, the leader of PD Santini, the rapporteurs Zanoni and Chiavaroli, the deputy minister Morando, the undersecretary Baretta and above all the undersecretary Paola De Micheli with delegation to the reconstruction for the attention given also to the events of the post earthquake in Abruzzo and the need to accelerate and make more transparent the reconstruction of L'Aquila and the affected territories on 6 April 2009. This government has given an extraordinary boost to reconstruction. The times are far away when we were forced to protest for the inattention of Rome. First there was the decree-law to manage the state of emergency, then the law of stability 2014 and 2015, the so-called measure unblocks yards, therefore, the decree local authorities with an article 11 that assumes an important part of my organic proposal of law on reconstruction, deposited in Senate, and translates it positively into legislation. Even in this bill of stability there is unpredicted attention. Meanwhile there are resources, over 4 billion, for public and private reconstruction. These are solid figures which allow the planning of interventions throughout the affected territory. I'm very satisfied. The content of my amendments to the Stability Act was made precisely by the rapporteurs, whom I thank. The precarious question is settled for all the municipalities of the crater and for the special offices. Municipal authorities shall obtain the possibility to extend or renew all contracts concluded on the basis of emergency legislation. It is a strong result that, together with the extension already obtained in the decree local authorities for the Municipality of L'Aquila, allows the administrations to face for the next two years in peace and for the first time reconstruction. The two special offices will also be able to extend their contracts and this will enable them to continue their activities. If we hadn't done this surgery, on December 31st they would have closed the offices in all the crater municipalities. The same would have happened in May for the special offices. In these weeks my commitment has been with the mayors to foil this hypothesis and to save more than 150 jobs. This is the result of collective action and I think we can be proud of it. In addition to saving jobs, we have ensured the efficiency of offices. The third amendment approved provides for the contracting station for the reconstruction of churches and religious buildings - even the most recent ones - to be entrusted to the Public Works Council to ensure greater transparency and approval of procedures. I'm gonna finish. It will still serve the attention of the State and the Government, but the recent visit of the President of the Republic, who has been able to verify the immense difficulties we are experiencing, but also the extraordinary progress made, gives a sign of the change that has taken place in recent years thanks to the good initiatives undertaken by this Parliament and this Government. Now I no longer have the hope of seeing my city and all the villages rebuilt, but I am beginning to be sure that together we will succeed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u59	Mr President, I had to ask both the President-in-Office of the Council and Vice-Minister Morando in this House what the government's political orientation in economics was that President Renzi presided over. I asked Deputy Minister Morando if the government had a socialist or social-democratic or liberal or liberal inspiration. I will die with this doubt because I have never received an answer from the President-in-Office of the Council, nor from Deputy Minister Morando, who confessed to me that he was poor in Latin and Greek. This was the only revelation he made to me, as he did not answer the questions I asked him. Today I will not refer to Latin mythology or Greek mythology, but I will ask extremely simple questions to Deputy Minister Morando, who will be able to speak in response if he so wishes. What happened to the so-called Cottarelli plan, with the cutting of the thousands of participating companies that produce about 45 billion euros of debt and the plethoric boards of directors that collect about 40,000 members? Lesinate tens of millions on such important expenditure chapters, but you have forgotten the plan of cuts that Enrico Letta (i.e. a President of the Council who expresses the same party as the President of the current Government Council) had advertised and wisely inherited from the Monti Government. What kind of state do you want to build? Do you want to maintain this crypto-socialist state, dear Deputy Minister Morando, or do you want to continue the famous modernization that the President of the Council is boasting of? Do you want a liberal-liberal state or do you want to keep a Bolso, redundant and inefficient state alive that you can no longer even keep paying because you don't have the money? These elementary questions would be enough to understand what kind of financial maneuver you set up. I will not lose myself in the meanders of criticism of the blanket too short, but, according to the salient data, I stress that the bill of stability will produce 17.5 billion euros of additional public debt. It is true that we have used the margin we have been given in the debt-to-GDP ratio, but basically we have a further 17 billion debts. This figure seemed to be a matter of more than 2,200 billion, but there is an increasing trend in government debt. To do what? Speak of security and you don't even run the remaining rankings for the policemen's marshals - it's 10, it's 10 - or for the Marshals of the Guard of Finance - it's 8, it's 8 - almost as if these 18 people could affect a law of stability that still produces 17.5 billion debt. Speak of health: I listened a moment ago to the speech by my colleague, who, in addition to making the praise of the state employees of health care, proudly claimed the legislative decrees No 502 of 1992 and No 517 of 1993 by the good liberal minister De Lorenzo, who the left fell down with legislative decree No 229 of 1999 known as the Bindi decree. We shall not vote for you, first of all so as not to displease Gotor: we Verdinians have this as an inescapable principle of a predictive and prescriptive nature. Gotor, you have to be quiet: Verdini's votes this time you won't have them, so try to get your votes or else the government goes under. This is a political fact. [[Comments of Senator Bulgarelli]] Bulgarelli, let me talk. Shut up. BULGARRELLI (M5S). You have always voted with the government in the Commission. You shut up. D'ANNA (AL-A). Let me talk. Shut up.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u60	Colleagues, everyone must be free to support their positions. No one intervenes or wants to intervene (if no one transcends) with respect to your speeches. The same must happen to others.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u61	There won't be our vows. We have tabled some amendments: one, advocated by the Presidents of the Regions, with a plan of return from debt, with which we told Morando and the President of the Council that the spending reviews and the cuts to the services that have happened in recent years, even with the increase of the allocated fund (parlo of Campania, Apulia, Calabria, Sicily and Lazio itself), have created a paradoxical effect. We have hundreds of millions of active survivors, not spending from the fund allocated to these regions, and we cannot and will not be able to commit them to guarantee the essential levels of assistance. Since September, dear Morando - because you too, one day, will be a user of the National Health Service and then you will lose the rather bored aplomb with which you listen to my saying - if you find yourself in my Region, in Campania, you will have to pay for the specialist visits and if you are sick of cancer you will not be able to do either CT scans, resonances, or cancer markers. We asked you to allow the regions to use these funds for the sick, and you had the courage, in the Commission, to say that these funds can be used to repay the debt further. So have the courage to close the hospitals, because health care is not cured by denying health care to the sick and to the citizens. You should be ashamed of yourself as a congressman and a member of the government. So, since you're making this kind of statement, I'm gonna throw the order of the day that you took us in, I'm gonna throw it in the toilet of my house! [[Comments of Senator Mattesini]] In fact, the agenda is not denied to anyone, but you had to approve that amendment for the Campanian, Apulian, Calabrian and Sicilian patients. If politics loses its ethical sense, it becomes a sordid profession. So you, giving that answer, did the mischievous, not the professor of economics who you are, much less the liberal, which you have always vaguely been in the ranks of the Communist Party. We also told you that there was a disproportion: those who paid Equitalia the debts they had with the Erario and could not pay all the installments and therefore interrupted the payment were, by a law of the State, entitled to resume the installment. Excuse me, but why can't this thing be done by the person who agreed to the installment with the tax office? FALANGA (AL-A). Because it's a pardon! D'ANNA (AL-A). The Deputy Minister says it is a pardon; therefore, the condons can be done with Equitalia and not with the State. Dear Morando, you must be ashamed a second time. I would also like Gotor, in case he intervenes, to respond to the Verdinians on these issues, because all the political manfrina around our Group is a shameful speculation: these facts testify if you are liberal or communist. Finally, you have reached the peak on the agricultural IMU. You have facilitated the IMU to direct farmers and small farmers while you have left the IMU for the so-called Dominican funds, which - I say this for those who are not used to empty terms - comes from the Latin dominus, i.e. funds that are owned. So if I own three hectares of land because I had them in inheritance, and I don't do the direct farmer, in addition to the other taxes, I also have to pay the IMU. So I ask the pseudoliberal Morando: is property theft? How does your liberalism reconcile with removing the IMU on the house and leaving it on the ground? Gentlemen, you will not have our vote and, continuing with this step, you will not have it even when the internal left tries yet another step to the Renzi Government, because we are moderate and liberal. Either the government takes the path of modernising the state and liberalism in institutions and economy, or we will be proud opponents of this government. [[Applause from Senators Langella and Falanga.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u62	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure that is being put to the vote is yet another example of the absolute inability and inadequacy of this Government. To the need for work of our citizens, Renzi responds with measures such as the RAI fee in the bill: an unworthy form of forceful exaction of an alleged tax, however required for a non-existent public service. Citizenship income was again rejected by this false and hypocritical ruling class. The Democratic Party, in fact, at the national level, or in its own home, continues to refuse to accept the proposal of the 5 Star Movement to make a Copernican change, such as that which would be caused by the introduction of citizenship income. At the local level, however, through its various rulers and governors - as in Puglia, with Michele Emiliano - the PD presents demagogic proposals, fused by those of the 5 Star Movement, such as the so-called income of dignity, instead constituting a mere propaganda instrument of dispersion of public money, for nothing able to structurally resolve the need for the work of the citizens. Giving the needy money instead of offering them a viable alternative of social redemption, in addition to betraying the hopes of those who have not or have lost their jobs, means unnecessarily emptying the public coffers, without allowing an effective possible economic development through the consequent revival of consumption. It's a shame. At the local level the PD invades the press and television, announcing that it has adopted a fake citizenship income, and instead in Parliament, where this measure should be voted on, it continues to prevent its implementation. I believe that citizens are tired of lies and hypocrisy. The 5 Star Movement is the right answer to the need for change and to the hopes of a better Italy. Dear President Renzi, dear Ministers, dear politicians of the Democratic Party and this incapable majority of government, we just have to wait for the new elections. The 5 Star Movement will make the change and you will see it from home, probably with your late pensions, certainly with the contempt of the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u64	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u65	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, I take the floor uncomfortable because we are witnessing acts of arrogance by the majority. We had a request for unity from the President of the Council of Ministers in terms of the fight against terrorism, and we responded positively, but this request should have been followed by a debate on the Stability Act to identify which resources are being allocated to that front. I am ashamed to see the sums allocated to the security sector for the renewal of contracts, and I am equally ashamed to think of the amount that is reserved for the renewal of contracts for civil servants after five years of blocking the contract. But the inconvenience still arises, Mr President, for two things that have occurred, quite abnormal and I believe that the absence of the Democratic Party in today's debate is also the result of this discomfort. Mr Morando, in fact, knows very well, better than I do, what happens when unanimity is achieved in a Commission. The Commission had put two conditions in its report, the first of which concerned Article 33 which called for the non-application part to be expunged. It is said, in fact, that the Ministry of Justice, through the organization and reduction of the remuneration of the honorary judges, deputy prosecutors, honorary judges of courts and peace judges, will achieve a savings, in 2016, of 6.4 million and 7.3 million in 2017. Mr. Deputy Minister, you know better than I that compensation is determined by law and therefore, since a reduction by the Ministry of Justice is not possible, only one thing will be possible: a policy intervention on jurisdiction; it will only be possible for the Minister to make an invitation to the heads of offices to invite the honorary judges not to make judgments and not to participate in hearings to ensure savings. Mr President, this was not just a request for a condition that was unanimously adopted: all the groups tabled amendments that were deleted on this subject. The answer: I don't know. The amendments were rejected. What's the reason? On the second issue, too, the Commission had unanimously expressed its opinion, so there is something that does not work if the majority groups are aware of the violation of citizens' rights under the Pinto law. Remember that the Italian State, with the so-called Pinto law, has assumed the responsibility to compensate citizens who suffer a violation of the principle of the reasonable duration of the trial. Then go and read. It is written that I, before starting a civil case, have to ask myself the question whether the judges will do in time according to the rules of the Court of Strasbourg, then translated into the Pinto law and applied by our jurisprudence and therefore I must choose, according to what is a faculty, the summary process of cognition. Do you realize that? You affect rights not through the introduction of possible cooperation by the citizen, but by reducing his right to an ordinary process of cognition, because otherwise there would normally be no possibility of choice in the code. In view of this, what is the reason why we rejected the amendments we had only tabled to draw attention to a subject which had been unanimously adopted by the Commission? Deputy Minister Morando will know better than I do. He knows better than I do. A small check that I have made shows that it has never, in practice, been accepted a condition unanimously laid down by one of the Commissions. In this case it was a condition that protected not particular interests (which instead are protected by this law of stability!), but the general interests of citizens. We have not tabled any amendments, either as a Commission or as a single group, which provide for the special protection of small camarilles or small corporations. Instead, we had defended the citizens' right to compensation in the face of the constitutional violation. We had defended the right of those who make the judicial system go on in this country, that is, the honorary judges, who are paid, as you all know, with derisory compensation. And in the face of this, are we talking about reduction? Finally, I had tabled, together with my colleague Senator Ceroni, an amendment that prevented the Government from further decree-laws. We had proposed that the ordinary judges in service be extended for two years, as was done every year by means of a decree-law. I would have understood a rewording by the rapporteurs that would limit this extension to just one year, in view of the law of delegation desired by the Minister of Justice for the reform of the honorary judiciary, which provides for a period of two years for the enactment of legislative decrees. We have reduced this deadline to one year in the Commission. The rewording of the reporters (who probably know nothing about what is happening in the Ministry of Justice) by which the deadline of 31 May was introduced is ridiculous. What's the point? Explain it to me, Mr. Deputy Minister. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u66	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u67	Mr President, I would like to begin my brief reflections on the law of stability with a reference to the international situation, dominated by the news of terrorist attacks. On the basis of these events, each State, including Italy, tries to implement and implement measures to defend itself against this barbarism. The government has announced a security plan, from the contours for the moment rather nebulous; we do not know its purposes and we do not know what the resources will be committed. It is good that these resources will be directed towards strengthening our police and intelligence forces, but it is very bad if this happens, as has already been pointed out by the minority rapporteur, to the detriment of interventions on the Mezzogiorno. The cover problems could still be easily solved. Just remember that the waving tax cut, for example on the IMU-TASI, could be greatly reduced if that 10% of families with higher income, who contribute 40% to the revenue, were not exempted from the tax payment, obtaining immediately 1.5 billion. It is very bad, above all, if this plan were to provide support for war operations, in which France would like to involve us, forcing, among other things, the interpretation of Article 42 of the European Treaties. These initial considerations pose a more general problem, namely how we can deal with these situations, these threats and this international terrorism. Well, Mr President, there is a post on Facebook, which contains a very curious photograph, with a tank made of books circulating in a city. The caption of this photo says: here is the powerful secret weapon to fight ISIS. Compared to all the nonsense you see on social networks, this is a post that has a very deep meaning. Mr President, I believe that the arts and knowledge are our most effective weapons against the barbarity of outrage and fundamentalism. A society based on the arts is a society that promotes dialogue and educates people to listen, that promotes confrontation and helps people and peoples to understand each other. The mechanisms of the functioning of science and the arts deny dogmas, preconceived positions and common places, instead favoring the confrontation and free circulation of ideas. That is why the arts and knowledge are truly our best weapon against international terrorism. I therefore have the right, Mr President, to judge this law of stability on the basis of the speeches it has made in the field of arts and knowledge. From this point of view, the law of stability under consideration is a collection of few completely insufficient interventions and many wrong interventions. However, the amount of money that is allocated for these few insufficient interventions and many wrong interventions, which I could quantify in the order of just under 100 million, represents 0.005 percent of our GDP. I would point out to my fellow Members and to this House that we in the 7th Commission adopted a resolution which set the objective of achieving a relationship between investment in research and development and GDP equal to the OECD average in seven years, thus requiring some 450 million a year of new resources. Let us also bear in mind that the 100 million that I have spoken of are totally frustrated by the linear cuts to the ministries that have been cited, quantified in the attached tables, only for the Ministry of University and Research, in about 200 million euros. The extraordinary plan of recruitment of 500 new brains, those that should return, flagned by the President of the Council in a television broadcast in prime time, moves only 38 million euros. The plan of the 1,000 new researchers is financed with only 50 million euros, totally insufficient to the necessity that it has been quantified by the national university council itself in the order of 500 million euros. There are also ridiculous measures, such as blocking the turnover of administrative technicians in research bodies. Yesterday in the Commission, I pointed out to President Tonini that the estimated savings are EUR 1.5 million in the face of the denial to young graduate technicians of the possibility of entering the world of research. These young graduates will be very happy to know that they contribute so fundamentally to the savings of the state's coffers! Mr President, on the basis of these considerations, the opinion of the Other Europe component with Tsipras on this bill of stability is and remains profoundly negative. [[Applause from Senators Barozzino and Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u68	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u69	Mr President, I will stick only to the part that concerns the Commission of which I am a member, namely foreign policy. So let us see what this bill of stability provides for in the field of foreign policy. It is clear that the content must be seen above all in the light of the facts of Paris, so our judgment is certainly negative as far as foreign affairs are concerned, because the measure is ineffective in the current international context. This was already true before the events of Paris, but it is even more true today and for a fundamental aspect: there is a full-bodied part of this bill of stability that devotes many resources to international treaties, with a remarkable provision. Well, many of these treaties affix to international military cooperation implemented with a very large number of countries, on which we express a negative judgment because it determines uncertainty about the control of the training of the military of the States and, above all, the aims of the training themselves. Another point I would like to stress is that of the Agency for International Cooperation, which we know has not yet started and whose summit has not yet been appointed. Yet, in this bill of stability we go to allocate many resources - we are talking about 120 million for 2016, 240 million for 2017 and 360 million for 2018 - for an Agency for international cooperation not yet established and not functioning. Our view, as I said, is negative with regard to the part of foreign affairs and we shall vote accordingly. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u70	Senator Guerra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill of stability we are debating is certainly very important and has a stated purpose which we also consider essential, namely to strengthen economic growth. Therefore, the two choices that characterize it and that have been recalled also in the introductory intervention of Senator Zanoni, that is the neutralization of the safeguard clauses and the battle, not taken for granted in the results, conducted with strong determination by the Government, in order to be able to take advantage of all the possible spaces of flexibility, within the framework of the European rules, made possible also by the policies of structural reforms to which our Government has dedicated itself. However, these choices broaden our indebtedness and refer to other safeguard clauses, with which we will have to deal and, as the European Commission reminds us and as we know, they expose us to risks where growth is lower than expected and inflation is lower than expected and if privatisation results in lower revenues. It is therefore necessary that, as the European Commission once again tells us, the space we have created should be used to the best, in two directions: on the one hand, to increase investment, which is crucial for the effects on growth, and on the other hand, to carry out redistributive measures. Let us remember that the crisis has not affected everyone equally and it must be a priority for us to give support to those who have suffered the most. Along these two lines the law of stability moves, with some deserving measures, for example by supporting private investment and with a first national plan to combat poverty for families with children. In our opinion, however, it moves with timidity: there is no courage for a clear choice of priorities. With the proposals that, as a PD minority, we have made and move forward, we move within the same constraints as the law of stability. We're not proposing an easy dream book. These are important proposals, which will be taken up again in the House of Deputies, to which much - too much - has been postponed. Let's start with the reduction of taxes: we agree with the reduction of taxes, but it is not indifferent to those who reduce them, on which tax base and giving up on what. To allocate 3.6 billion euros in order to remove taxes on the first house practically to all is wrong for us, besides the fact that it takes away spaces of autonomy to the local authorities: I remember that the combination between autonomy is responsibility is for us an indispensable value. How, then, can we reduce taxes? We have put forward two proposals: firstly, we propose to pay everyone, fighting tax evasion with determination, in order to pay, therefore, less. Our proposal, on which there have been significant openings on the part of the Government, contrasts tax evasion in the field of VAT and is a proposal that, in a few years, in Portugal has led to an increase in revenues of 13-14 percent. It would therefore bring revenue, which can be used to reduce taxes and, in particular, could be used as a source for an important reduction in taxes in the South, not by using Community funds, which are already from the South, but by giving additional resources, in relief for investment and employment, so important that they are supported in those territories. You can lighten taxes by reducing the exemption granted to everyone on TASI and by maintaining a tax at least for that third of the owners of homes of higher value, which could, like us, continue quietly to pay. From this would come out 1.5 billion euros and not the 150 million euros on which we have quarreled these days, in the Senate, to do important things a two-field: with regard to welfare and redistribution, it would allow to support in a perennial way, even for the years to come, the new LEAs and innovative medicines, avoiding cuts in health care, or take a faster step towards a universal measure of combating poverty. On the other hand, what concerns investment support, more could be done about public investment, which has an impact on gross domestic product much stronger than the unlikely increase in consumption that could be achieved by cutting TASI to people like us - I repeat - that can be widely allowed to pay for it. I am thinking of public investment, not only as those rightly envisaged for large infrastructure and the most important transport networks, but also the fundamental ones of the territories and decentralised bodies. I am referring to the road, the contrast of hydrogeological failure, the protection of the environment, in order to prevent, to spend less and better. I am referring to hospital construction, school construction, urban redevelopment. These are investments that pay attention to common goods and collective welfare, which should remain - and remains for us - the priority. Finally, I appeal to the Government to raise the ceiling for the use of cash, because that limit is not only a measure of contrast to tax evasion, which would also serve in a country where tax evasion is greater than 120-130 billion, but is an incardinated measure in policies against money laundering, the financing of large and small illegality. At a time when France had already moved from 1 September to lower the cash ceiling from 3,000 euros to 1,000 euros to counter terrorist financing, the events of Paris and the consequent increasing awareness of the need to ensure the traceability of finance and cash, it does not seem appropriate to lower the guard and it is certainly not enough to intervene, although meritorious (we appreciate) on money transfers alone. We will strongly propose these themes to the House. We will also present our proposals in those areas which here in the Senate have not been able to deal, first of all with pensions (with first practical flexibility) and work, for the resources that are lacking - are insufficient - on active policies. We will strongly re-propose our proposals, because we have the cards in order on how to finance them, because we have clearly indicated where to take their resources. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u72	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u73	Mr President, we do not agree with the approach of this bill of stability for the simple reason that it seems out of time, out of the reality that our country is living. It has been said by the rapporteur that there is economic and employment recovery, that the situation is improving; well, living every day on our territory, we do not see the optimistic expressions of this Government being reflected in concrete facts. This is not the case, as is evident to most Italian citizens. This seems to be any of the maneuvers that have followed in recent years, especially in the last four years in which the Democratic Party is ruling, and which are mainly based on the expenditure of resources that are not there: last year the maneuver used ten billions in deficits, which have evidently translated into an increase in public debt, and again this year we use this instrument for a value almost doubled (17 billion). We spend resources that the country does not have without having an effective and fair impact once on the reduction of public expenditure, on the decrease of the costs of the state apparatus. In these two years the Renzi government has become beautiful in the eyes of the Italians reducing exclusively the transfer of resources to local authorities, municipalities, provinces and regions for those essential services addressed not to administrators; he has not done a wrong to Presidents of the Region and mayors, but to all those citizens who have the right to adequate services and in particular to a health care up to our country. Also in the bill of stability in question we always go in the same direction: in this case we cut exclusively to the Regions, to the possibility of citizens to have a health care up to the level, adapted to the real needs, and we do not hit the real problem that has been created in the last 50 years, that of a growing expense, of a use of the wealth produced by the Italians to create a great state apparatus that has devoured rivers of resources, without which they would actually be productive and useful to our territory and our populations. The demonstration that this is true is dictated by a very simple fact: those responsible for the spending review identified by the Renzi government have resigned. This evidence shows that Renzi does not want to reduce the actual unnecessary expenses, those that would not be popular to decrease, but that they would finally really give an effective response to this real and obvious need, which is tending exclusively to move over time. Then there is a great deception linked to the safeguard clauses: it is true, for 2016 the risks of increased excise duty of petrol and VAT have been defused, maneuvers necessary for the choices of the previous governments of the PD, who introduced this sword of Damocles on the heads of the Italians. The risks of introducing these rules have therefore only been postponed to 2017, and have not been reset, because they remain realistic if we find ourselves in a situation of difficulty and crisis in a different situation from the current one that sees all the favorable indicators: as we all know, the cost of money, the cost of oil, the low spread that therefore does not have an excessive impact on the figures related to interest on the public debt. But this is not the solution, but a positive economic situation that must certainly be exploited better than what the Government is doing. Also, there are four points that have not been touched at all. Work: it is not true that there is an effective recovery of employment; there is a transformation of contracts from precarious to indefinite, linked exclusively to incentives that those who give work can use in order to reverse this mechanism and this priority in the recruitment of their employees. There is no increase in employment. The issue of pensions has not been addressed. There was a debate, but no response from the government. It is evident to all the injustice of the Fornero law and the negative effects it has on the lives of so many people, especially on the lives of exodus. As far as the women's option is concerned, something has been announced, but then what was needed has not been fully achieved. This too is an injustice not dealt with by this bill of stability. The same applies to security, and not only to the present situation, that is, to a situation where international terrorism is affecting Europe and hitting Paris; Italy cannot ignore - but Renzi is doing so - that tomorrow could affect Rome, Italy and our citizens. The feeling we have is that Renzi has put his head under the sand and is trying to ignore what happened by pretending that this cannot happen even in Italy. The hydrogeological safety of the country: the answers are absolutely inadequate; investment over several years cannot be spread and hope that time will not bring other disasters, other mourning, in the course of next year. These were the questions on which we wanted to hear answers. With regard to security, which concerns not only terrorism but also the insecurity of our citizens who are often attacked in their homes and are subjected to severe violence, there is no investment. The garrisons are diminishing on the territory and there is no proper control during the night: there are no resources and there is no policy on that. What did the government do? It asked Europe for flexibility exclusively to address the migratory emergency, that is, the policy of the invasion and the indiscriminate reception of all illegals arriving by sea. Renzi fought against this and not, as Hollande did, the need to have resources to defend our territory and our citizens: it is a totally different vision from ours. Our country is therefore a country that cannot be sure of having work, adequate pensions, security in its own homes with respect to crime and terrorism, and that cannot even have the security to live in territories where extraordinary climatic events do not call into question its own safety. This is not the country in which we recognize ourselves; these are not the priorities contained in the bill of stability: these priorities were not to be ignored, while this government totally ignored them. We would have proposed alternative solutions. Italy in which we are living is governed by a President of the Council who has lost contact with reality and who is not giving the necessary answers to the security of our people. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u74	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u75	Mr President, Government, citizens, I shall speak of an absence. There are many absences in this bill of stability. In this case, it's the green act. What happened to the green act? It was announced months ago, but it continues to be a dream. Renzi told the UN that in the near future he dreamed of many jobs in the green sector. Well, it's time to stop sleeping. We are awake and we have proposed a concrete green package, a green act, with a series of amendments to this stability bill to develop the sectors of the future and its jobs. In fact, let us remember that the sectors of the future are those that will create hundreds of thousands of jobs. At the moment, however, these amendments have been rejected. We are without an effective industrial policy on these innovative sectors and therefore, at this moment, only intelligence, dedication, genius, tenacity of thousands of entrepreneurs, employees and Italian labour allow us to keep, very laboriously and very partially, the step with international competition that, instead, has climbed on these trains of the future. Exactly, the green economy trains, because this will be the future. In this law of stability, however, you have snubbed it, as you have snubbed our amendments. And you have snubbed, in general, research and innovation, which only in words is encouraged, because you have not strengthened the tax credit introduced by the previous law of stability. In addition, you have not refinanced the SME Guarantee Fund, which is a key tool for supporting its access to credit. This credit is lacking, together with this bankrupt banking system which, being procyclical, serves only itself. Thus, companies lack credit and also lack payments of commercial debts to public administrations. But if they are still waiting for 50 billion credits, what should they develop with if they have both credit crunch and lack of payments? How can we expect them to invest in the future? In conclusion, if Renzi dreamed of many green jobs in the future, then we would like to ask the President and his majority to stop sleeping. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Boccardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to adopt an economic and financial document which, in the expectations of the Italian people, should represent the springboard for the long-awaited recovery. Allow me to thank all the members of the Commission, the rapporteurs, President Tonini and, last but not least, Deputy Minister Morando, who have worked to add pieces useful to embellish the mosaic of hope. I believe I was, at my first experience, among those who humbly committed themselves to making a positive contribution. Unfortunately, I note that the proclamations and good intentions have not been followed by the facts. These tapered choices towards the South, which this government considers, at this point, the taillight of the entire boot, are pushing the nation towards the abyss. A vigorous steering is needed, which will quickly reverse the direction of travel. These maneuvers only help companies to intercept the favors of those who command at the expense of those who, despite everything, manage to keep themselves. You may not realize that despite the proclamations launched through the media and social media, today many young people in the South are leaving with trolleys and computers to find their place elsewhere. Good intentions and initial projects were then betrayed by the Government and by the same majority that watered down the measure with measures that do not represent any planning for the future. Our nation, in my way of seeing, before a law of stability, a financial law, needs a greater governmental sensibility, far-sightedness, political acumen, a strategic vision typical of the leader who, even in the mists of international events, still knows the route on which to lead his country. For this reason, my amendments tried to overcome a situation that risks becoming entrenched by giving more breath to the potentialities and not to the assistantism, which each region - unfortunately - has in its DNA. The South of Italy - I would like to remind you - is known for its historical, artistic and architectural beauties but also and above all for its food and wine excellences, fruit of commitment and hard work. Those who do business in the South are certainly not children of a minor god, but children of Italy itself, yet the Government looks elsewhere and does not consider them. The advantages represented by the tax credit on investments - which I represented - and the tax relief, in my view (but also according to Deputy Minister Morando, as I saw in the Commission), are the only instruments that would allow virtuous and courageous companies to continue investing. Specifically, the investment tax credit would be the automatic instrument to compensate for tax and contribution payments by not drawing on the company's liquidity which at this time, especially in the Mezzogiorno, is insufficient. But this commitment was guiltfully ignored by the Government by sending everything back to the House of Deputies. With the amendments I have tabled I did not want to obstruct or make vain rhetoric, I certainly did not want to fuel the controversy: far from me the will to ride the wave of sterile and fruitless protest. I have striven without emphasis, just a few months after my inauguration, considering myself a humble servant of a people who wanted to honor me with this task, to face in my small with dedication, spirit of service, as a private, the most urgent problems afflicting our citizens: economic crisis, unemployment, precariousness, insecurity. If we were to face up to these monsters of the 21st century, we could automatically create the conditions for this Parliamentary Assembly, apart from ideological and party fences, to be the one that identified the right course I was talking about earlier, the one for a new promised land. These are the possible solutions that I have been concerned with submitting to the Commission and on which perhaps there has been insufficient attention. But if the state does not have sufficient resources for pensions, for the law enforcement agencies, for the unemployed, for the less well-off classes, on who can leverage the state if not on businesses, including agricultural ones? If we do not act concretely to give the necessary tools to companies to invest, to grow, to hire; if we do not follow up and respond to the cries of alarm that come to us from citizens, families, businesses, the result will be to feed the party of the angry. Not grasping the discomfort that exists in the country, politics will prove inadequate and will be considered the place unfit to solve the great problems that grip our nation. In short, we will give the impression that we are a Parliament full of ourselves and its shortcomings. The economic crisis is not a destiny, but the result of the government's wrong choices. Today we look like a lost and feeble country. Italy is in turmoil: on the one hand movements of squares and networks, full of resentment; poverty reigns among families; tax protests everywhere, classes disintegrated by a violent and painful recession and, on the other hand, a government that navigates on sight with electoral measures that will resolve in prebende and privileges for someone, leaving most of the Italians, without hope and without future. In this web full of exploitations, however, I strongly feel the desire to launch an appeal to the Government for a reconstruction restoration indispensable for the resumption of this nation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u78	Mr. President, 2016 instability. Why? Because your incoherence and negotiations under the table have been unstable from the outset. The draft law under consideration was delayed: it was to begin on 15 October, but on 28 October there had not yet been any communication from the President of the Senate. On this line you continued. Bad. Evil also on the agricultural sector, which you keep teasing because you first promise benefits and then subtract from the same pocket to which you have pretended to offer yourself. What did you do? Banged to agricultural taxation: the rate of the registration tax for transfers of agricultural land goes from 12% to 15% and the IRPEF will increase as a result of the revaluation of agricultural incomes; exclusion of agricultural and seasonal workers from social security measures; cuts of more than EUR 24 million to the fund for the recruitment of young agricultural workers; no aid for Sicily and Calabria, affected by recent calamitous events; nothing for Puglia, except destruction of agricultural activities and olive trees. Why? Because these regions you want them unemployed, deserted and dependent on your bad business. Because where there is poverty, there is crime. Where there is crime, there is political-mafia exchange and without this you are nothing. No exemption from the IMU: tenderly announce the exemption, but do not clarify that whoever has agricultural land and has left it uncultivated or who is not a direct farmer will continue to pay the agricultural IMU. Duty, gabelle and servitude: a medieval remake and sabotage of the sector. Even King Louis has a mustache. What did we ask for? We want the development of territories with both fiscal and productive aid so that poverty is not your best weapon and can be defeated with the income of citizenship. We have asked for support for the short supply chain and for the lack of income; relief for those who hire; support for the South and the dairy sector; access to micro-credit for professional fishing companies, fishing tourism and tourism and for regions affected by disasters; aid for farmers (even those who have suffered calamitous events). It was a wall against a wall, but we have achieved that farmers with a turnover of up to EUR 7,000 continue to benefit from tax relief schemes. However, this is not enough. In conclusion, more than packages under the tree, you have prepared for farmers (and not only) a large package full of taxes! Dear Italians, what to say: resistance, resistance! Hold on! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u79	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u80	Mr President, as I am not a great member of the Budget Committee (I am a member of the Health Commission), I would like to begin by thanking you for the ability you have had to make me understand so much and for your willingness to read all the amendments. As the rapporteur pointed out this morning, the draft stability law in question contains, above all, measures on the home and addresses the defence of the weakest. I welcome the attitude taken above all with regard to tax breaks for rent and the fee agreed upon, especially for persons with disabilities or children. However, there are many other weak groups, who have always been very dear to me as a member - I repeat - of the Health Commission. I had tabled amendments for these groups. I am thinking, for example, of the amendment that tried to do justice to those affected by thalidomide, which still does not have its own legal status recognized and, therefore, also economic commitment by the Government. I had also tabled amendments aimed at the recognition and inclusion in the Essential levels of assistance (LEA) of another large group of weak people made up of fibromyalgia patients, who have not yet been recognised despite the fact that it is a chronic crippling disease. Since the government has committed resources to the LEA guarantee, I thought it was possible to include this class of people that nobody defends, precisely because they are weak. Then the legislator made 4 billion cuts to the Regions, which will certainly affect health and, therefore, again, the weakest groups. Compared to my requests for tax deductibility for those who face the path of international adoption, with considerable expenditure and with difficulties also from the legislative point of view, even in this area, I have only been given one agenda. We try to understand that there are many weak groups in our country. As we make a speech that is mainly based on budgets, expenditure, deficits, I tried to understand what economists think about this, who tried to point out that this fetishism of the deficit was wrong, that there were no concrete elements to say that public debt was a problem for large economies and that, on the contrary, there were good reasons to argue that cutting spending in a depressed economy would exacerbate depression. The facts have proved them right. Meanwhile, the austerity measures implemented since 2010 have had exactly the depressive effects expected from all economic manuals and the fairy of trust has not yet reappeared. Countries that have largely recovered from crises, like the United States, are also much poorer than the projections made before 2008. This is the indicator that the transition to austerity has had catastrophic effects, far beyond the decline in employment and income, which make austerity counterproductive even in purely fiscal terms. Governments that cut spending during a depression have damaged their economies - and thus future tax revenues - to such an extent that public debt will also be higher than would have been without cuts. In a recession economy, the budget deficit was a useful thing and not a danger; printing money and borrowing served, a new great depression was averted, which at the time seemed to be a completely plausible hypothesis. Then everything went wrong. Today, the consequences of the wrong turn we made seem worse than the harshest critics imagined. In 2010, economic and financial elites stopped thinking about unemployment and started thinking only about the budget deficit. This passage clearly clashed with the fundamental principles of the economy; people began to think of deficit risks simply because they all did and the contrary voices were no longer taken into account. Most likely, those who supported those disastrous policies learned nothing. So when we make a financial, we think, yes, of the weakest, but we also think that in the economy there is not only a balanced budget. [[Applause from Senators Bencini, Bignami and Bisinella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u81	Senator Lucherini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u82	Mr President, before I start my speech, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, the President of the Commission and Deputy Minister Morando - to whom I also express my solidarity with the undeserved attacks that have been the subject of this House - for the work that has been done, which has greatly improved the stability bill; an important work that has improved many points of a bill that intervenes with an expansive measure in a situation that is already no longer what many of the speeches I have heard in this House describe. Of the two, one: or many of the opposition senators who have intervened do not read the newspapers and do not follow television, or here describe a reality that is absolutely not the current reality of our country. We are no longer in crisis, we are no longer in recession. This year, for the first time in the DEF, we have revised the GDP index up from 0.7 to 0.9; next year we will be around 1.4-1.6. In just one year we recovered 270,000 jobs, compared to the million jobs we had lost in the years of the crisis. All indices are with the positive sign. It is not true that the Italians do not warn that the recovery has begun, because the indices concern the propensity to consumption, that they are going up, thus testifying that there is a renewed confidence from the Italian consumers. Exports to our country gallop. There is an increase in industrial production that sees Italy having passed the same Germany; therefore, one cannot continue to describe a reality of the country that is no longer what the citizens themselves, in addition to the operators - all those who deal with the economy - describe daily. The country is recovering; and if the country had not recovered thanks to the work, the reforms that we too, with great commitment, have helped to approve, the Government could not have proposed a financial maneuver that asks that some of the clauses provided in the treaties can result in an increase, regarding our Country, that leads us to a total maneuver around 26,5 billion euros and that it will be able to reach 29,5 billion if the clause of 0.2% regarding the question of migrants that Italy has asked will be accepted. We could not have made such an important and expansive manoeuvre, which will help the growth of our country, if we had not done the reforms, those that so many in this House have opposed with their vote, and that today allow us to overtake, to ask for the application of the clause for overtaking. It is not true that this is a manoeuvre made in deficit, because, for the first time, after eight years of uninterrupted growth, today our deficit-GDP ratio stands at around 1.4%, and in the following years the debt-GDP ratio is expected to fall at a higher rate to reach values below 120% in 2019. These are the words of Minister Padoan at the hearing. It is not true - I repeat - that this is a manoeuvre made in deficit. It is a maneuver that respects the European parameters and will be of great benefit to the country, because it introduces a series of proposals that all go in the direction of increasing consumption and investment. The reduction in taxes introduced with the EUR 80 was reconfirmed for this year, mainly in favour of fixed incomes; the elimination of excise and VAT increases (only this intervention costs EUR 16.8 billion). This is a problem that the current Government has been inherited from past governments, and that it is not automatic to avoid, because two years ago there was an increase in VAT. To increase VAT by one point today would be criminal because it would compress consumption and recovery. The house tax (3.7 billion) is eliminated. Of course, it can be argued whether it was necessary to foresee it for everyone or only for some, but it is an intervention that goes in favour of the vast majority of Italians, waited that in Italy 80% of Italians own the house in which they live. We remove the agricultural IMU; we give compensation to the municipalities because we do not do as Berlusconi did, who removed the IMU from the municipalities that had to increase the local taxes. We partially release the municipalities from the Stability Pact by relaunching investment in schools and infrastructure. We remove the IMU on the bolted to all companies that had this tax burden. IRAP is reset in agriculture and fisheries. IRES will be reduced from 2017 and, if the 0.2 clause passes, we will do so already this year. These are just some of the measures that are found within this law of stability, a law of great commitment and great impact for the country, that will support with great force a growth that is already in place and that is in place not against the Government, but precisely because the Government has carried out an incisive policy of reforms that has revived the Country in Italy and in Europe. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u83	Mr President, I too would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, the President of the Budget Commission and Deputy Minister Morando for the work they have done, because objectively a text of the law of stability that the Senate has improved and is improving is coming to this House today. It is an important and positive law of stability, in which there are - let me just say this well-known controversy - many things that many have spoken about and that have not been done before this law of stability. I would like to focus on one point in particular contained in this bill of stability, the intervention on the house, which I consider to be very significant. There has been much talk of practicality in this debate; I think that in this measure, especially on matters relating to the home, there are very concrete measures. In particular, three things are done. Firstly, we try to answer a housing question, continuing the policy we chose last year with the housing emergency law. It is a policy that pushes and encourages the rent agreed, to give Italian citizens more opportunities to rent accessible rents. From this point of view, surely the discount on the IMU and the TASI that is expected for the owners who rent at agreed rent is an important fact, which is added to the 10 percent dry coupon that we had decided last year. Secondly, the objective of this law is to restart the building sector and the exemption from TASI on the first house goes also in this direction. There is not only the fact that 82% of Italian families own a house and so we are making a fair measure, which can help and helps many families, already often in the crisis overwhelmed by mortgages. We also do another operation: we take away the TASI even to those who paid it not being the owner of the house (I think of those who live in the housing or social housing). The abolition of TASI on the first house also helps the building sector overall, lowering taxation, as well as this sector is helped by the confirmation of ecobonus on renovations and energy efficiency. The third question concerns the urban outskirts, which are often mentioned in the comments in these hours. Here there is a strong and significant intervention on popular neighborhoods, popular homes and public housing. There are 170 million put on the field to settle empty housing and assign those houses, which are added to the 25 million that the Government has allocated to the last Council of Ministers, which in turn are added to the extent of the extension of the ecobonus also for popular homes (provision useful to combat degradation). I believe that these are all measures that go in this direction. Finally, with this law we cover a void. A vacuum determined by the judgments of the Constitutional Court that has repeatedly deleted the previous law, a vacuum that returns to favor rents in black, false pacts, contracts other than reality. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by repeating that this law of stability is a good law, which will allow the consolidation of those positive data which Mr Lucherini mentioned earlier, positive data - I would like to stress - whose lack, when there were no, was the sign of the country's decline as you have all explained to us. To say today, in the face of these positive data, that they too are the sign of the decline of the country is evidently a contradiction. In fact, taxes on families and businesses continue to fall, and in this law of stability there is an effort to make people's living conditions, especially the weakest, the results of this first phase of economic recovery. In this law it is confirmed that this Government - I repeat - after many years has returned to look at housing and home as a priority, a question to be answered not with emerging logics but by putting in the field of long-term public policies and this has been done. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u84	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u85	Mr President, this bill of stability tells us that the government certainly has a great strategy, which is to move the debts forward. In fact, we will find ourselves with a heavy load, because we know that the safeguard clauses, in total, consist of about 54 billion euros that we have to see if we will have to pay in the years to come and the same will be said when we have to start paying for the fiscal compact. So what are we going to tell the Italian citizens? That's the good strategy this government has, short-breathed. As you can see, it is very simple and trivial: their real problem is to survive. Our problem is to make Italians survive and we find solutions, but these solutions are not adopted. As far as infrastructure and transport issues are concerned, we had put forward a number of proposals and I will mention just a few of them, given the limited time available to us. For example, we thought it would be appropriate to raise the fee to motorway dealers, since they profit a lot and the State cashes little. With that money we could easily and quickly realize, at last, the infrastructure of fibre optics, the famous broadband of which so much the President-in-Office of the Council fills his mouth without actually acting. We wanted to encourage teleworking, one of the many methods by which perhaps the problems of pollution and excessive traffic are solved, problems afflicting Italian cities. Why not encourage teleworking? Finally, starting with the public, we asked to encourage the transformation of the means of locomotion (bus and car of the public administration) by anticipating the DAFI directive, which we will have to transpose in October 2016 and according to which we must have vehicles fueled with fuels that are not derived from oil, therefore neither petrol nor diesel. Why can't we do these simple things by giving Italy the chance to have a different industrial vision? The government doesn't answer these questions. It "governs" and stays there floating. Italian citizens will find themselves in this way with a lot of money to hunt and perhaps ask this Government and their representatives to account! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u86	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u87	Mr President, this general debate also appears this year as an arena in which to count valuable achievements and lost opportunities, taking stock and reasoning on the potential of Parliament and the country. And every time an articulated picture emerges, conditioned by small steps taken forward and sometimes someone backtracked. Of course, as the rapporteurs have pointed out, the data relating to the weakest social groups have been taken into account in the formulation of the measures. This must be acknowledged, not least because it should be the guiding principle behind the provisions. But one cannot fail to point out the absence of an approach which - apart from mere data - intends to focus on the real weaknesses, made up of fragile humanity and measures that are not always effective. On the other hand, however, I would like to thank President Tonini, the members of the Budget Committee and the Government, who were able to follow the work closely and participated in it. In addition, it must be acknowledged that, unlike other years, the sense of responsibility of colleagues has been indisputable. There has been little comparison, but this, we know, is characteristic of the laws of a financial nature, governed by strict terms and by demands of accelerations. As the variable nature of the regulatory constraints is evident, where the concept of "ordinary" of an amending proposal acquires different nuances and meanings depending on the context. Perhaps on this point it would be desirable, even for the proper operation of the legislative offices, to clarify clearly and unequivocally what is right to amend and how, because many probably find it difficult to understand, finding a certain discrepancy between rule and practice. I am not addressing this issue in a purely polemical, but from the formal point of view. Apart from this, however, the substance of this measure has been conditioned by a complex climate, especially because of the scenario within which the crucial part of the debate has been conducted, with the events in Paris in the background and the need to redesign budgetary priorities; but also because of the missed opportunities on fronts that await answers, which should be unavoidable. On the other hand, it makes us think that proposals have found room which - albeit right - are difficult to understand from the budgetary perspective that has mowed - instead - other good and fair proposals. I am thinking of taking charge by the State of the clinical examinations necessary for the volunteers of the fire department, the 9 million euros per year allocated for thermal care and a certain contractual assistance. At the same time, I am thinking of the families of serious and very serious disabled people who will not be able to access the resources of the refinanced fund, referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 25: because the specification also for people suffering from ALS is in many cases misinterpreted by the local health agencies, to the point of creating a kind of bond of provision that excludes carriers of other disabling diseases, although, paradoxically, the law provides for it. It is not my intention to explain how good it has been in this measure: it would also be indelicate to the rapporteurs who have clearly highlighted the contents of the measure itself. I do, however, intend to point out what could be done, and what could be done, as if it were a wish for good parliamentary practice. From this point of view, I would like to point out that many of the proposed amendments have received a negative opinion although they only provide for semantic corrections. I quote, for example, my amendment, which intended to clarify the mission of the Fund for International Adoptions and Macro-Areas of Intervention to which its resources will be allocated, in particular with regard to cost containment dynamics, which affect adoptive families, and the proper functioning of the Commission for International Adoptions. A front on which, we know, there are many weaknesses and problems. In this same perspective, the amendment to which I referred earlier is also included: a correction in the face of serious and very serious disability, which would have prevented the creation of a frequent misunderstanding of local health companies. These are specific semantics, but they have not found a response and this is where we find that weakness in terms of humanity to which I referred before, although there are all the best conditions and intentions and some proposals of the rapporteurs, especially in Article 25, seem to confirm this trend. These days, especially after the dramatic events of last Friday, there has been much discussion about the need to renew the country's security instruments. However, it is difficult to understand the reasons for the shift in security, defence and public assistance corrections to the chamber step of the measure, which consequently also dragged in the other proposals of interest which, although being the subject of debate in the Senate, were withdrawn to be discussed in the Chamber. The security sector, as some have already pointed out, is a large absentee and it would have been desirable to grant the Senate the responsibilities to identify together with the Government the most appropriate measures to cope with a certainly changed security scenario. The problems are many and the gaps in this area have been the subject of various interventions in these days, many of a provocative nature. It is not my intention to be part of this trend, but I think it is very urgent to allocate those resources on which the EU itself has intended to loosen the snares of the Stability Pact. But on this front many should be the points of comparison with the Government, if it intends to review choices already planned in the matter of security, such as with reference to the military corps of the Red Cross which, as an auxiliary of the Armed Forces, could be particularly functional in this delicate conjuncture. Does the Government intend, therefore, to review its choices and strategies, in context to the security and civil and military protection priorities that transnational topicality requires? We need not only new resources, but also capacity to re-adapt what is already provided, with a view to functional rationalization. We therefore need to make a synthesis, finding together with the Government of the roads that could be crossed, which seemed to be shared for this measure as well. I remember in this regard what was reported yesterday by Prime Minister Renzi in an interview precisely regarding the security front, anticipating that in the next few days will be made a proposal to all parties for a country operation. However the reference to the Chamber influences what should be a balanced bicameral approach to the analysis of the bill of stability, preferring the way of division of the thematic areas between Chambers to the sole objective of accelerating the iter. On the prospect of the referral back to the Chamber of Security Affairs, an agenda was adopted which follows three of my proposals, made precisely by the Commission and signed by the Heads of Groups on future action on the equalisation of victims of duty. It commits itself to considering the possibility of setting out measures to resume the path of extension to victims of duty and their equalisation of the benefits already foreseen in favour of victims of terrorism and organised crime, further assessing, in view of the commitments already entered into in this regard, the increase in the resources allocated to scholarships reserved for victims of terrorism and organised crime, for which we had asked for derisory resources. Mr Deputy Minister, on this point I would like to dwell, because we cannot understand the reason for such inattention to the possibility of giving support to those whose parents have fallen or remained disabled while carrying out their institutional tasks at the service of the country. It is - let me say - a kind of indifference towards those who have given so much to the country and we know well that a great country cannot afford such a short memory. I say all this also because of the attention that the rapporteurs and the Government have intended to devote to cultural promotion through specific measures of support to cultural institutions in the context of the provision of state contributions to the institutions. I am referring, for example, to the 30 million per year to be allocated to archives and libraries that will also have to go to the central institutions. In harmony with this mission, it could have been hoped for a small allocation of resources to the Rijeka Historical Museum Archive, precisely to allow a valid activity to promote historical research, dissemination and specialization on the theme of historical events related to the tragedy of the foibe and border dynamics. We must realize that these cultural realities, precious and functional, will be forced to close in the absence of a support, albeit simple and limited, by the State; that same support reserved for other realities, historical archives and museums, according to a principle of discretion that is not understood. In this logic, the three-year non-refinancing provided for in Law no. 72 and 73 of 2001 in favour of the Italian minority in Slovenia and Croatia and the Italian exiles of Istria, Rijeka and Dalmatia. With these missed measures the historical consciousness of our country is compromised, the unavoidable sense of respect and attention that should be guaranteed to the events that have marked the history, recent or distant of the same, therefore our memory. Mr President, I shall finish and, if I may, I would like to leave the rest of my speech to the record. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). In conclusion, we find ourselves faced with a text that becomes omnibus, although the initial premises were of different tenor, which touches on some issues leaving in fact open some strategic scenarios: firstly, the security, social security and health sector, where they alternate, in a complex and varied structure, good elements and of interest to measures that are biased. Let us not forget that we are in a scenario in which social attention is particularly high and it can be dangerous to convey a sense of incompleteness, when - at the same time - we are talking about urgent and unavoidable measures. In this delicate historical moment in which new perceptions of insecurity and attempts at economic recovery are mixed, the Government and we all have the responsibility to do good things, no longer derogable. These include the need to give proper value to measures of a financial nature, in the name of a principle of subsidiarity, equality and functional rationalisation, which unfortunately continues to be latent in many cases. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Catalfo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u88	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen (although very few, because we are talking in an almost empty Chamber, with perhaps seven or eight representatives of the majority), I am trying to reiterate what I have said in the Budget Committee and in the Commission over the past few days. This law of stability is inadequate and unacceptable for workers, the unemployed and Italian pensioners and does not meet the real needs of citizens. As far as the field of work is concerned, after a long summer characterized by the torment of pension flexibility (one day it fits, the other does not), with the government's promise to finally insert corrections to the disaster caused by the Fornero law, we arrive at the law of stability with the mountain that gives birth to the most classic of mice: a seventh safeguard that once again will not be definitive; interventions of timid, fragmented and partial flexibility, such as the extension of women's option and no prediction for early workers nor for weary jobs. No action is envisaged on the rule concerning onerous reunions and silent contributions; no resource on active policies; no allocation for the refinancing of dis-col nor to protect income support for the 350,000 seasonal. You have even covered the raising of the no tax area for pensioners with the sums recovered from the indexing of pensioners themselves, in spite of the decision of the Constitutional Court, not to mention the so much proclaimed masterplan for the Mezzogiorno announced by the President of the Council, Matteo Renzi. In a nutshell, there is nothing in the law of stability for pensioners, for the unemployed or for all self-employed all waiting for this government to finally put in place dignified measures for the lives of Italian citizens. The 5 Star Movement, through numerous amendments, has proposed in a collaborative way everything that is not in the law of stability, including an economic and universal measure of contrast for poverty, the income of citizenship, which would raise, would resurrect the Italian economy. It is clear that for all these reasons we are opposed to what is contained in the Stability Act on Labour Issues. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u89	Mr President, this is yet another wrong financial step, not as far as there is, but for what is missing, for what is not there. There's no industrial plan. There is no real fiscal policy. There is no prospect for the development of this country. We could call it a peanuts financial. In front of a hungry country, we think we'll feed it, not with brioches, but with peanuts. You're spending a lot of money on communication. You talk almost about a new age of gold, but the exchange coin is tin, a mirror for the lark. And I had fallen for it at first because, for example, the measure of depreciation at 140 percent seemed good to me. After that, however, I began to do two things and, surely, now I know that this depreciation will not be the one that will raise the country. Which entrepreneur in difficulty, in fact, will spend 100,000 euros to save 13 in 10 years? Because 13 percent of actual savings, spread over four or 10 years, means 1 percent. It would have been much more useful and incisive a tax credit to 50%, rather than a compensation that is nothing. Deducing from profit is money; compensating is nothing. The direction had to be the reduction of taxes and simplification. But good intentions have been lost in the detail changes and the overall view has been lost in the micro-sectoral norms, as always. There is a need to make real reforms and not to wait for those announced. We need structural reforms and we find ourselves with small changes. We give a million to the Navy (to the Teseo Tesei group) in the form of security funds. We give 12 million to the Marina of resorts and 20 million to the LSU of Palermo. Let's think about the Monza Grand Prix, but what do we give, instead, to the 7293 companies failed in this 2015? We don't give anything. We have illusions. On the contrary, it had to be done. Someone scored the goals, as always. Morando was very kind to everyone but - let me say - with someone more. The suggestions were not accepted, those agreed at the table, and the usual money and detail recovery amendments were sought. Even here, then, we will be postponed, if not to September, to April with the new adjustments that await us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u90	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u91	Mr President, this bill of stability aims to maximise the electoral consensus, in view of the early elections that could take place in the coming months. Better to be ready because an accident in the path can always happen. That is the impression I had at a first reading of the measure, an impression that was fully confirmed after the Commission' s proceedings. This is a law that deals with many small issues, such as a small "thousand extensions," which, however, fails to address the real problems of the country, which are the growth of public debt, the growth of GDP that is not there, employment, dramatic youth unemployment and security problems. This law of stability has had many criticisms and we have heard some of them during the hearings: the Court of Auditors, the Bank of Italy, the Parliamentary Budget Office. By the way, Mr Vice-Minister, I do not know what it was for to set up a Parliamentary Budget Office if the remarks are then completely ignored. If we create an office, we take into account that office, which should be neutral, since all the components are represented there. So let's take into account the suggestions that come from it. The heaviest rejection came from the European Commission, which highlighted the risk of non-compliance of the Italian maneuver with the Stability and Growth Pact, the final judgment postponed to spring. And in spring, at least, I believe that corrective action will be needed in the first months of next year. I think that in preparing the 2016 Stability Act one could not ignore the uncertainty that slows down the world economy. The slowdown in the economies of emerging countries is a threat that can block the modest signs of recovery that have emerged in Europe over the last period. The same terrorist events that occurred last week in Paris will have a significant impact on the economies of European countries, resulting in a fall compared to forecasts. In such a condition the Government had to be more prudent and more responsible. But, beyond that, the Italian situation is a matter of concern. Italy ranks 4th in the ranking of the world's most indebted countries: 2,192 billion debt raised by the Bank of Italy in September, but over 2,200 in the previous months. It is a contraction with an accounting artifice, reducing cash availability. The debt-to-GDP ratio gallops over 130 percent. The deficit is growing by 0.5 billion and the interest cost is falling by 70 billion, as a result of the fall in interest rates thanks to the massive purchase of government bonds operated by the European Central Bank. I don't know what's gonna happen when this one runs out of money. The rapporteur, Mrs Zanoni, rightly said: I would like to point out that we do not always have this programming capacity referring to the Italian economic situation and it is not always said that the forecasts, sometimes even optimistic, are realized. You're absolutely right. In this condition of absolute uncertainty you have to increase the public debt by 15 billion over interest. I want to remind you that for three years in a row you have shifted the budget balance, which is now to 2018. If you continue this way, you will never achieve a balanced budget. What do you care? It will be the future generations that will pedal. A law of serious and correct stability should have the ambition to reduce public debt. But even if we want to increase public debt, resources should be earmarked for investment. You should have used all the flexibility of the European Union for productive public investment. Only by investing in innovation, research and infrastructure can we reverse the unstoppable tendency to impoverish our country. As everyone at the hearings pointed out, the maneuver does not contain any investment resources. Investment is zero. Investment is also zero for the South where the parameters of GDP, employment, unemployment, youth unemployment are at a level of absolute drama. The South needed tax credit for investment and decontribution for new recruits. You even reduce last year's benefits for new recruits throughout Italy by 60%. You'll see how recruitment will grow in 2016. The maneuver contains, if we exclude the sterilization of the safeguard clauses that are moved by one year, tax cuts for just over 5 billion, abolition of TASI on the first house, IMU of agricultural land, reduction of IRES, IRAP exemption in agriculture and fisheries. The limitations introduced in the Commission are worsening and discriminatory and are therefore totally unsatisfactory. In order to lower taxes, you have to cut the expense. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] You don't want to know about cutting public spending. In three years you have appointed several commissioners for spending rewiew : Enrico Bondi, Mario Canzio, Carlo Cottarelli, Roberto Perotti, Yoram Gutgeld, all lauteously paid, all related on how to cut public spending by 10, 20 or 30 billion, but their indications are in the drawers to collect dust. The truth is that you are not able to cut spending because on the management of public spending you base your consent. It's an elementary thing to understand. If anything, you're capable of cutting other people's spending. In the regions, you've cut 17 billion in the last three years. In the Provinces, you cut 500 million, over a billion last year. Now they are all in disarray, unable to guarantee the minimum services of their competence that are not nonsense (the road, the secondary schools, the environment, the territory). The municipalities are sentenced to economic failure as a result of cuts and unable to replace retired staff, even when there is only one figure to fill the post. You said no to everything. Many were the suggestions we had proposed, but you said no to everything. I think of the elevation of the no-tax area, because it is not understood that taxes must pay those who have an income of 1,000 euros per month, regardless of the condition in which they find themselves; the cutting of resources to CAFs and patrons, to whom citizens are forced to turn for your brainy bureaucratic duties; the problem of pensioners and exodus; the extension to honorary judges and peace and the reduction of their modest allowances. No, you have extended for five months pending the reform that will take place... MORANDO, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. All proposals for cutting spending. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's avoid direct debates in the Assembly, please. CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). We could make a long list of unsolved problems. The elimination of the tax on unpaid rent or the IMU on the sheds of a company that does not work and whose employees are all in cash. Finally, I am thinking of the issue of security funds. It is not acceptable to hold the contract of the police forces, to reduce resources for the means and to center recruitment at a time like this, when security is the greatest concern of the citizens. I should like to conclude by saying that Italy is different from the rest of Europe. A few days ago I read an agency report that reported the resignation of Romanian premier Victor Ponta after the protests followed by the tragedy of Friday evening in a disco in Bucharest, where a fire caused a series of deaths. You're setting Italy on fire, but after all the accumulated failures, you just don't think about resigning. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Fucksia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u92	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the law of stability that we are examining is light years away from what I would like. In what also wants to be a social state, welfare, assistance to the weakest, to the poor, interventions for social inclusion remain proclamations of the government that do not find space, or find it only hard, among the measures contained in this law. There is a lack of a courageous overall vision that will get us out of the recession that we are experiencing. Enough with the senseless linear cuts. It is enough for buffers, temporary, emergency interventions, driven by compassionate logics rather than by the taking over of a problem and the search for long-term solutions. But is it possible that you can't do more? I don't see industrial plans, I don't see marketing, I just see "marketting." [[Applause from Senators Bulgarelli and Council.]] I apologize, I read my speech last year in the shorthand report, but in fact nothing has changed and I still have the same thing to say. Last year you had given us propaganda interventions like TFR in pay envelope, a measure that we could define in the same way Fantozzi defined the battleship Potëmkin and used only by 800 people. I repeat: 800 people, what a waste of resources. Today it seems to me that the sentence pronounced by President Harry Truman is very timely: If you can't convince them, confuse them. Anyway, let's get back to the bill of stability. Comparing our public spending with that of other European countries we can see that, despite the cuts, Italian public spending exceeds what we can afford by about 40 billion, that is, 2.5% of our GDP. Such high public expenditure undoubtedly affects, for example, the present inefficiency of the purchasing system, which is extremely fragmented and represents an important voice of waste and possible corruption. The agency responsible for the supervision of public contracts has entered 34,000 offices in its registers that manage 1,200,000 purchase procedures. What a waste! What about the late payment? In a recent survey of the payment of health products, Assobiometica shows how average payments delays vary from seventy-eight days in Trentino-Alto Adige to a maximum of eight hundred and thirty-two days in Calabria (more than ten times). How is a linear cut possible under these conditions? What math justifies that? It means sawing the legs of the virtuous and accommodating the corrupt, the wasteful, the dishonest. Yes, but, dear Renzi, this is your policy and good school is the most obvious proof: good until Mrs. Agnese and who cares about the teacher who does not pull at the end of the month. Are we talking about the blue cars? 5.727: 35 million waste, not counting staff. I dream out of here the blue bikes, a huge park of blue bikes at our disposal to turn Rome; then we would start to see in Rome the bike paths. Yeah, sure, you cut a little bit of cars, but for what? To buy you a plane? And what about health spending? The national health expenditure in this country is about 120 billion euros, of which 25 billion are pharmaceutical and specialist spending. As has been said in the Commission on the supervision of the tax registry, it is possible to intervene on these items, reviewing the operational process and achieving significant savings on an annual basis, which is calculated in approximately EUR 4 billion per year. And what about the 40 billion savings provided by Cottarelli? Investments and paper rags. What do you do? Increase public debt. These data refer to the analysis of public waste carried out by Carlo Cottarelli, who had been appointed by the Government - not by me - commissioner for spending review. And you instead of cutting "Cuttarelli" cut Cookarelli, which is the fastest thing. A thought also to poor Perotti, who also resigned. [[Applause from Senator Di Maggio]] The spending review comes down to the spending you want. These resources should be used to help the weakest sections of the population. The possibility is given to 2,000 parents - only 2,000, I recommend - who are assisting severely disabled children and who are on leave to anticipate retirement. What about the others? It is not by setting a limit of 2,000 people who make a law. There is a great deal of discrimination. How do you choose these 2,000 parents? With what criteria? What if it's over 2,000? Who does it get to first? We want to make a marathon: who arrives among the top 2,000 wins the pension? I don't know, look at you. This is the other mechanism that generates exodates. What is discrimination? Who has already used leave for serious family problems? Who is in the power to take leave and has not yet done so, why should it be benefited? Who did not use it is perhaps because he did not need it: and perhaps it is to be considered more serious? Congratulations on your logic. Fair and due measures could be financed, such as the possibility of early retirement of all parents who assist disabled children or interventions for the legal recognition of family caregivers, providing adequate social security, insurance and health protection. It's a scandal. Do you see yourself at 58 at eight hours a day of work while you haven't slept at night for a child to care for every night? Turn, dress, feed: shame. And here you raise your salaries, you do trade marks and you don't give fundamental rights to those who need them. It's a shame! The caregivers have launched a UN appeal to the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the world's highest body for the protection of people with disabilities and their families. And we're gonna make a fool of ourselves here, too. [[Recalls of the President]] I remind the lucky ones, that here they make shoulder pads, that disabled not only you are born, but you also become. What about the infractions? All money thrown away, money that could give serenity and greater services to our Italians. Do you have any idea how much we're paying for the infractions? And how much are we gonna pay for? And you increase public debt: we will not go unnoticed in Europe. What about the debt on derivatives that your public administrations are paying? Do you have any consolation? All originated from bad politics: this, yours! You have rejected my contribution to the Provinces and metropolitan cities, for transport and educators, for the disabled who go to high school: since January they will have no more money. Thousands of boys at home without transport: shame! I call on the Government to take the necessary measures in time so that this disaster does not occur. There would be money, there would be resources, without all this waste, with true reforms, starting with that of the land registry. And you raise the public debt. I want to conclude as I started, with another very significant phrase by Truman: I can remember when a good politician had to be 75 percent skill and 25 percent actor, but I can see the day when the opposite could be true. Well, Renzi, you got it. I know I'm not the President of the United States, but you've turned out to be 100% actor, and I hope this cheap play is over soon. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and CoR]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u94	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is yet another farce being made in this House today. We are discussing a bill of stability that will be denied by the maxi amendment, on which to put the question of trust, as your usual; a bill of stability which, with regard to education, university and research, constitutes a step backwards for the country. Above all, there are two decisions that make us think: the cuts of around EUR 162 million on school planning and coordination, which confirm a purely top-down view to the detriment of the collegiate one, and the cuts of four million for basic scientific and technological research, initially planned for as much as six million. We have proposed to commit expenditure savings for the partial implementation of the Extraordinary Recruitment Plan, provided for in Law No 107 in an Extraordinary Stability Plan, based on the real needs of school institutions, which has not been taken into account and is not yet taken into account. You said no. We have proposed to use the teachers' professionalism premium fund to finance the design value and the hours spent in excess to perform useful functions in schools, considering factors of complexity in areas at higher educational risk, and not leaving it to the discretion of an inadequate committee to evaluate: you said no. We have proposed to reduce university tuition and to relaunch Italian universities through a generational replacement of the teaching staff, free from parental ties, and based on transparency and true merit and not on the direct call of university professors of the first and second classes, in full continuity with what is foreseen by the so-called good school: you replied no. So much for that scrap that Mr. Renzi finally doesn't even have the shame of flagging anymore. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u96	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u97	Mr President, let us first see where we start, because these days we are accustomed to triumphant announcements: It is the recovery, rather than recovery; we have even better data than the already excellent ones we had. What is the reality instead? Speaking of gross domestic product, this year we have had a spectacular increase of 0.5: it is a good thing (better to increase little than to fall little or even much); but there is a bad habit of talking about gross domestic product only in terms of percentage. Because when an Italian goes to a store the prices are expressed as a percentage but in euros, the situation is that even with this 0.5% improvement, we are 4.3% worse than in 2011, when the Berlusconi government, the last directly expressed by the voters vote, was forced to resign. Well, we've gotten 4.3% worse since then, thanks to this fantastic 0.5 improvement. In other words, since we have gone even worse, we are now a little bit better than the worst of the worst that was touched a year ago, when already governed the current, irreplaceable Government (we had arrived, in fact, at -4,8). Now, with oil at historic lows, the dollar at its peaks since almost immemorial times, the quantitative easing of the European Central Bank, under the direction of Draghi, in short, with all these factors at the same time, we have had an improvement of 0.5, less than almost all other countries of the European Union. As for employment, on some figures, as we have heard, there have been mistakes, overestimations and so on. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] They are also inflated by the positive economic situation that is difficult to repeat and by government aid, because these places that have earned have been paid by the government with the famous subsidies and all that we have seen, which is money that the government brings out. With these good results, we have reached 727,000 more unemployed than in 2011, with the Berlusconi Government. In other words, since then, 727,000 people who worked today have not worked. Maybe we can say that we have made some sacrifices, we have increased unemployment, we have dropped GDP, but to the debt we have given a good blow: in fact, it has given a good kick in the debt, that it was 1,906 billion in November 2011, when it left the Berlusconi government, and in the last month it has reached 2,191,7 billion, that is 286 billion more than in 2011, of which 86 have been accumulated during the current government. Speaking with respect to individual citizens, each individual citizen has an average income down by 1,224 euros per year, that is 100 euros per month, while his personal debt, the debt per capita, has risen - again in these four years - by 5,127 euros. This is the good advantage, that is, we earn less, but we have more debts, and this after three healing governments: think if these three healing governments had not arrived, which increased the unemployed and the debt and reduced the income! I would like to focus on a few points: one of the reasons why we are not doing so well is perhaps that we have a bit of an allergy to the market, to competition, to real competition. In the text of this law of stability, however, there is the beautiful article 15, which bears the title "merit" (which was also a well-known product for the home, a few years ago, to which I believe we referred, because here there is precisely the opposite of merit). It is said that, in order to promote merit, they will hire professors without doing the contest: nice, huh? This means that competitions are a filthy thing (but then perhaps we should make sure that they are no longer such) or that if the contests - which, I remember, are managed by the government, not by the aliens or the opposition - are done badly, then the government says: "Well, we hurt the competitions, where the recommended ones apparently pass, then we hire 500 university professors by direct call - not just a few things, it's a huge percentage - but with very precise criteria" which, however, are not written in the law that we representatives of the people vote (against or in favour), but in a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, without having heard anyone and after rejecting the amendments that asked for the opinion of the Commissions, in which he decides by which criteria, for how long and in what disciplines to assume. In other words, instead of having competitions where there's a risk of recommendations, let's just skip it. President, I see the light of my microphone flashing, but I think it's a mistake. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, there's no mistake. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). How! It hasn't been seven minutes... president. Yeah, he's got seven minutes. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). But have they expired yet? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, tempus fugit. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Damn, tempus fugit, sed etiam... Then I'm just saying one more thing that shows that there's little love for competition about CONSIP, this fantastic thing that should have better prices, so all public subjects, starting with municipalities, should use it. In this law of stability, however, it says that you are obliged to buy from CONSIP even if you find a lower price elsewhere, even 9 percent. If you find a price lower than 10 percent, then - goodness them - you can supply yourself with this other person. However, be careful, you are a potential criminal; in fact, this contract must be sent to the National Anti-corruption Authority. This is a scarecrow that I also find ridiculous, because, if there is an irregularity, the National Authority should intervene anyway, even if you do not send him the cards every time (this will only fill some room with cards); I must say that this is a terrorist aspect. I would like to hear in the replies an answer to this simple question: why, if CONSIP, whose only purpose is to get a better price, makes you 100, you are obliged to buy from CONSIP, even if you find another one that makes you 91? I'd really like to understand that. Perhaps because you prefer to have a centralization of the selection of suppliers. In other words, even here the recommendation must be worth more than merit, in addition to all the problems that are created on the territory, because this means centralizing everything, so whole parts of our territory are ignored. In fact, if you are not a supplier at least at provincial, regional or national level, you can do nothing, forgetting that the small realities, both municipal and corporate, are those that have always kept our country standing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u98	Mr President, it is certainly not a simple operation that is attempted by the law of stability, which seeks at the same time to promote growth, to carry out fiscal modulation and to maintain the quantity and quality of welfare in our country. It is not a simple task, but it is a task that I share. Of course, this company is exposed to a number of critical issues, but it also offers us a number of opportunities. In the work done by the Budget Commission, which I would like to thank, first of all, the President and the rapporteurs for the competence and serenity with which we have tried to deal with the difficult issues together, we have certainly achieved some very important elements in the field of welfare, partly already contained in the measure and partly implemented by the work of our colleagues. In particular, I would like to mention the measures concerning research, such as investment in genomic research in Italy, which is very important. I would also like to mention the reaffirmation of the funds for poverty; these are extremely important elements. I would also like to remind you of what we have tried to do as a health committee and as people who, in various ways, in the majority, but sometimes in opposition, have tried to intervene on a structural matter. The choice we made was to intervene on elements of the structure of the National Health Service. Certainly the billion more given this year was not what was expected but, having said that, it is therefore one billion more. The theme that arises today is how to innovate in a structural way and in order to maintain a level of universalism, even in the presence of innovation. I must say with satisfaction that an important point has been reached, with a great deal of teamwork; I am referring to the fund for innovative medicines. We have succeeded in an operation which I believe to be very far-reaching, the measurement of which is not yet possible, but which will produce very important results in the future. Unleashing the fund for innovative medicines, which we decided with the stability law of last year, from the roofs of pharmaceuticals and especially territorial pharmaceuticals will free resources and already this year to reconfirm for 2016 the 500 million. In view of this, it will enable us to free up new resources, which I hope will also be included in the House, by virtue of certain clauses which we have included in our amendment, collected by the rapporteurs, which concerns programming, and therefore the possibility not of giving money on innovative drugs, but of linking this expenditure to a real programme investment. Then there is a second point that is very important and I have to say that there is a rather disconcerting assessment. We have signed, and the Commission has approved unanimously, the request to bring back the essential levels of assistance also within Parliament's competence. Now, we do not know or understand who could think, among the extensors of the stability law, of depriving Parliament of an opinion on the essential levels of assistance of the National Health Service. I think it was more than what my colleague Bianco said, that is, an oversight. I believe that it is a political issue, that of the role of Parliament, which we have, fortunately, succeeded in reaffirming. But - and I quickly come to the conclusions because time is ticking - there are still other problems. We are told that everything will be dealt with again in the Chamber at second reading. I am aware of this and it is normal that it is so, but I would like to know - and I did not have answers - why a number of structural elements were not positively addressed which would have helped the work of defining resources. I am thinking, for example, of the amalgamation of university hospitals with local health companies, of the balance of the budget for at least two years by universities, which is mandatory in our opinion, otherwise, as is well known, the debts of universities in the field of health care are transferred and I do not think that is appropriate. I must sincerely reaffirm here that the answer I have received in this regard does not give me any satisfaction, because I cannot be told that there is a ban by the Ministry of University and Research on the inclusion of a balance between the essential conditions. This does not stand, because I believe that health must primarily be dealt with by the Ministry of Health. Then I mention only the titles of the other problems that remain unresolved: the establishment of a network of palliative care, an intervention that is provided for by law and has no cost; drugs and in particular the UN International Conference scheduled for 2016, the projects for the reduction of the damage and the role of Italy (it has been said no); medical devices for all, not only according to the price but also to the quality for pathologies such as diabetes (it has been said no); the European directive on the shiftwork of health workers, a structural issue for which Italy will go in infringement procedure (not also on this); the presence of patient associations in the Commission on the essential levels of assistance (the Agency has done it, but also in this case it has been said no). I will stop to say one more thing, Mr President, and I apologise for the minute more than I will take. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The minutes. It's been several minutes already. DE BIASI (PD). Thank you, Mr President. There is a structural part on which I hope, posteritized, that the House can intervene and instead there is a theme that dramatically concerns the provision of funding for the law on the after us, the emtorassed, the people who were born following the use of thalidomide and who have that terrible handicap, the post-partum and depression after motherhood and the great dramatic issue of the increase of the staff of the National Health Service. Wedding with dried figs cannot be done and medical and healthcare staff is essential for the operation of a National Health Service: I do not see how there can be good health and good health if there is no adequate staff. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u99	He's enlisted to speak Senator Milo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u100	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before any other consideration, let me say that this draft law does not seem to us to present any guarantee of stability with regard to the holding of public accounts. It may also be that this maneuver is sufficient for the Government to collect another score in the game against opposition prizes. On the other hand, it has already happened with constitutional reforms and we would not be surprised. This maneuver, however, is not enough for all the rest of the country and, since we talk about accounts, pass me the game of words: an account is the impression that the Government wants to give when it tries to convince us of an Italy that "reparte" and another account is going, really, beyond the mere floating, net of the triumphalist proclamations, but always empty. Before I start a more technical examination of this text, I open a brief parenthesis, no less relevant. In an arrogant way - this is the distinctive feature of the Government - it has found in the text of the law of stability the so-called decree-law Regions: a "cut and sewn", to measure of the majority, that contradicts in full terms the Rules of the Senate, not taking into account the law n. 196 of 2009. I refer, Mr President, to Article 128 (6) concerning the content of the draft stability law, where it is considered inadmissible to amend the legal order and the amendments amending the general accounting rules of the State. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, for the reasons I am going to explain, what we have examined, more than a tax plan has the whole idea of being a "plan plan." This we regret and we also regret that the law of stability to our examination is a candidate of right to enter the long list of opportunities missed by this Government: yet another opportunity for a return to growth, which is lost by our country. Too little has been done in terms of deficits. The spending review is more than halved, reduced to just 4 billion euros, against an initial announcement of at least 10 billion euros and, moreover, largely covered by linear cuts to the Regions and the public health sector. In this regard, as other Members have already done, I would remind the House that the commissioner at the spending review, Professor Roberto Perotti, resigned from office a few days ago, declaring himself dissatisfied with the work of the Government. It would have been sufficient to identify, with greater ratio, those pockets of current public expenditure to be affected profitably. Between reduction of expenses for goods, services and public personnel, rationalization of the companies participated from municipalities, provinces and regions, measures of efficiency, our proposal estimated a possible saving of more than 20 billion euros. This is much more an accident than the Government has proposed, which seems to forget repeatedly the context in which we operate: the law of stability of our country is under continuous observation and supervision by the community finance. We do not think that the financial manoeuvre under our scrutiny includes any firm desire to reduce, for example, the accumulated public debt stock, one of the main concerns of the markets with regard to Italy. The government, rather than drawing up a concrete plan of cuts to avoid the overtaking of the ceiling of 3%, preferred to go to Brussels, hoping to sell off as a victory some miserable rifts granted in clauses - which are ambiguous - of flexibility. It is precisely on this issue that we need to open a parenthesis on which to reflect: it is news of these days that the European Commission has expressed serious doubts about the budget law for 2016 of this country. While the Government has sold itself as a success a fanciful sign for Italy, it is resoundingly denied by the Community opinion. We hope that there will be just as much joy when, next spring, the outcome of the ongoing assessments in Brussels will decreate the opinion on our finance, since the Italian Stability Act, as it is, has been declared at risk of non-compatibility with Community rules. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still faced with a missed opportunity and a lost train. What the government does not say is that our country would be the only country potentially entitled to benefit from all possible clauses of flexibility on public accounts. Too bad that the lack of structural adjustment of the budget, the insufficient spending review and the non-compliance with the debt rule have not allowed to successfully close the game and to cash this important result. This is just one of the contradictions and ambiguities we have witnessed (and will continue to witness) in this parliamentary term. The draft stability law under consideration, moreover, is the son of a modus operandi full of shadows in terms of economic planning. However, when it comes to numbers, at some point the accounts have to settle and we don't get it back, good Vice-Minister. For example, in the September DEF Update Note, after so much emphasis on the constitutional bill, it is stated in black and white that the impact of the structural reforms implemented in 2015 means: "essentially neutral impulses for growth". Therefore, net of faint signs of recovery, we can safely say that we are not enough improvements of zero or one comma something, if it is true that the ambition of a country-system should be to activate growth, instead of limiting the slowdown. If we have to find a key to unlocking the system, this is certainly not to change the electoral law or reform the Senate, let alone the jobs act, because it is not only changing the rules that reverse the negative trend of the labour market. Only by easing bureaucracy, thus making productive enterprises and thus stimulating demand, can one think of relaunching recruitment and exiting economic stagnation. It is a path exactly inverse, it is there the key. The only policy capable of creating conditions conducive to the recovery of the economy, in fact, consists of a massive tax scissors. We Conservatives and Reformists had proposed it already last year and we will return to the House, proposing 48 billion cuts in spending concentrated over time, with 24 billion already in the first year: it is an ambitious but achievable program. This government has not had the same foresight and today repeats the same mistake. The tax relief that we record in this bill of stability is in fact not only small, but completely irrelevant where it is considered that it is spread over five years and that in 2016 only the cut of the TASI is recorded. This measure, moreover, leaves us more than a few perplexities since - to put it with themed metaphor - the tax on the house, exiting the door, we risk seeing it come back from the window, perhaps under some other name or in more or less disguised forms. It is a bit, ladies and gentlemen, like the case of the canon RAI in the bill: where would the turning point be? Where would the novelty be, in this course - if nothing else - cheat? The 2016 bill of stability follows the principle that so far the Government has inspired all its economic proposals: timid scattered cuts, punctually offset by increases in other taxes, always borne by citizens. Therefore, Mr President, I will briefly address the issues which, as the Group of Conservatives and Reformists, we have considered emblematic and explanatory of many critical issues that this bill of stability leaves unresolved to date. I would like to start with one of the most serious issues on which we cannot and must not be silent: I am referring to the South knot. The indifference and the total absence of a truly strategic and programmatic vision compared to those problems of the country that should be, instead, at the top of the priorities of those who govern. After having already betrayed announcements and expectations with the so much proclaimed masterplan, then turned out empty of proposals and contents, for the southern regions to the damage is added also the mockery: the South has disappeared, completely erased from the maneuver that we are called to vote; as if the law of stability was a magical blackboard on which to write, compose and change the order of the addends to your liking. I add another element of reflection. The postponement of the flexibility clause on investment therefore postpones the possibility for the Mezzogiorno to spend, outside the EU constraints, about €7 billion. Let us remember that the exclusion of national co-financing from Community constraints was a precise commitment made precisely by the President of the Council, during last year's European election campaign, which should have taken place during the EU Presidency. Dear colleagues, words, just words. A few hours after the entry into the Chamber of the text of the Stability Act, the Government informed the Budget Committee that with its majority it was unable to reach an agreement on investments for the Mezzogiorno proposed by the oppositions, and in particular by us Conservatives and Reformists. For example, it skips the tax credit for investments: an amending measure that we had strongly advanced to overcome the criticalities of Article 7 of the bill. The introduction of a facilitated scheme could also have stimulated, through incentive mechanisms, demand for investment, and enabled companies to increase their efficiency and productivity. We could have given a concrete response to those Southern regions, which have suffered not only from the lower stimulus compared to the rest of the country, but have been impoverished in the productive potential. Our amendment could have removed the Mezzogiorno from this spiral of low productivity, low growth and therefore less well-being. But - alas - this majority, at the government's suggestion, did not consider it as important to do so. Just as it did not consider it important to approve another amendment, which we Conservatives and Reformists had tabled, on the tax decontribution for employment, namely to grant an increase in the contributory exemption for companies employing in the Mezzogiorno, in particular young people, women and disadvantaged persons. Evidently, this government team has no perception of the real economy, the one outside the parliamentary bargaining classrooms, outside the legislative fora. Outside, there is a South to which the crisis started in 2008 has left a real collapse. This year, the number of people employed in the Mezzogiorno fell below the symbolic threshold of 6 million, thus gaining the sad record of the lowest level of employment since 1977. It goes without saying that our proposal would not only have been appropriate, but also a proper and proper compensation for the crime done in the South last year. I remember, in fact, that the 3.5 billion euros that financed the bonus assumption of jobs act was money of the Regions of the Mezzogiorno, ended up cashing out then for the assumptions of the entire country. We would have liked these proposals, as well as those with which we called for the extension of the audience of the beneficiaries of the exemption from the agricultural IMU, to be shared by the majority with the approval of our amendments, because there was and is a desperate need for timely intervention for the Mezzogiorno. Let us not then be told that it is all a matter of cover, because, where necessary, we first had alternative proposals to the structural investment clause already granted by Brussels: for example, that the employment bonus increased in the South should be financed from Community funds and from the Development and Cohesion Fund. It was enough to have the will to do so, and work could have been done to find a way of accepting genuinely encouraging and incisive measures for the Mezzogiorno. Instead, even the southern question, has ended up in the cauldron of the many promises made and not kept by this Government. Well, I would like to point out in this House as I have already done in the Budget Committee, on behalf of the Group I have the honour to represent, that we are no longer prepared to give up a single step on the subject of the South. [[Applause from the CoR Group]] The events that have accompanied the examination of the text of the law of stability in the budget are, unfortunately, a sad confirmation of the inadequacy, or rather of the total inconsistency, of a forward-looking, strategic and programmatic vision for the Mezzogiorno. A wrong approach, which relegates the southern issue to second order, treated as a hot potato to bounce between the two branches of Parliament. No analysis on the part of the Government, no consideration of socio-economic coefficients and dynamics; only a dull deafness, demonstrated in relation to the needs of those territories, which can only leave us stunned and amazed. As Mr President, it leaves the explanatory statement that we have had to hear in the 5th Commission on why the financing of the southern regions has not found its place in this law of stability here in the Senate. We have heard that the South will be seen and that the decision not to intervene in the Senate on measures for the Mezzogiorno is due to the fact that the Government was not ready because of the new security events. I don't know what to say. You judge, if you can call yourself reliable an Executive who, in the face of the emergencies of his country, is forced to choose between orders of priorities, however completely different, and is caught, however and always, unprepared. I just want to remind you that the southern issue dates back a few hundred years ago. But the problems of the Mezzogiorno have become more acute since the last few years. Ninety onwards, when, on the political agenda of all successive governments, the word'midday' has disappeared. We are here, ladies and gentlemen, not to protect the South as a priority, but because the South wants to be, together with the other parts of the country, the country system. I shall, Mr President, overlook the fact that there is too much more to say about this and I shall therefore begin with the conclusion. We would have liked Conservatives and Reformists to have time to discuss many other issues, starting with safety to end up with health and transport, no less worthy of attention or reporting and to which, in some way, we have tried to respond through the proposals put forward in our amending packages. Much more could and had to be done for our country. We Conservatives and Reformists have tried to make a fruitful contribution, in terms of substance and above all merit, that it was really improving those critical issues and unsolved issues that we have unfortunately encountered during the examination of this law text. This law of stability, Mr President and Mr Vice-Minister, has not convinced us, at all or in intent, much less in content. We have put forward proposals that could be a response to the many Italian problems, from citizens to categories, from the network of small and medium-sized enterprises to the macro and microeconomic system as a whole. We regret the opportunities wasted by this Commission and its majority, but for our part we reserve the awareness, Mr President and Mr Vice-Minister, of having acted as best we could, within the limits of those small and limited powers which are reserved for a minority all the more so, for those who have the honour - but also the burden - to oppose this current convergence of government, which does not grant too much to a true exercise of democracy. [[Applause from the CoR Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u101	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cuomo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u102	Mr President, the debate on the law of stability in the Senate today, for the innovations introduced and which we are preparing to vote on, marks important and satisfactory progress for the entire country system. It was and is necessary to consolidate the economic recovery that this country is going through. As a Senator from Campania and a former mayor I do not miss the central role of the Mezzogiorno in our discussion (among other things, the intervention just finished by Senator Milo placed him with great centrality in the context of this reflection), a Mezzogiorno which obviously must be central in the debate and, consequently, in the choices. A Mezzogiorno that has in itself resources, talents and capacity to make a decisive contribution to getting the whole country out of the widespread difficulties of the economic crisis that in recent years has built industrial deserts, unemployment and increasing disinvestments. Just in this direction I want to express my appreciation for the funds allocated by this Government for the Land of Fires, whose drama is the son of a mindless policy that for years has imagined a piece of the country as a garbage can, as areas to be let die slowly and in collective indifference. Changing to this also meant: resources for the reclamations, specific interventions for some industrial realities dramatically affected by the horror of ecological bombs that have sown pain and death. I am thinking of the reality of Isochemistry and many others, where more needs to be done to guarantee the right of former workers to a dignified future after suffering unjust suffering. On this point I have tabled a number of amendments and I believe that this is a crucial issue as well as Prime Minister Renzi strongly reiterated when he was able to verify the dramatic situation in that area. The priority, therefore, seems to be to give back to territories, citizens, workers a lost dignity also through those Bonifice denied for many years. But Mezzogiorno is also merit and talent: principles that seem fundamental for the re-start of the country. In that direction you can try to go further. The political glossary would define itself as a qualitative leap of government action, especially in certain areas where it seems necessary to speed up the reform and investment processes that must go hand in hand. For this very reason I honestly do not understand why we have chosen to delegate the whole chapter of the South to the Chamber. Maybe in the replies both Deputy Minister Morando, who the rapporteurs will be able to give a more effective answer to our questions. Serious and credible proposals both in the discussions and in the amendments we have been able to hear and read. So, this almost renunciation delegation, we couldn't fully understand it. Finally, but not for importance, I think I must express a particular attention and a call to the Government on issues relating to public administration and recruitment of staff. I say this very frankly: the grip on the turnover present in this law - and in this they have full force and relevance to the evaluations of the ANCI - squeezes with some passages of the law delegation to reorder the public administration, which this House - I remind the Deputy Minister and the rapporteur present in the Chamber - has approved. Among other things, these principles contrast with approved agendas and amendments that committed the Government to take every initiative for the recruitment of those contest winners - not suitable - who have been waiting for years because they have a subjective right to recruitment. I want to say this to President Tonini, Vice Minister Morando and colleague Zanoni: a public competition of a public administration is banned if there is accounting coverage and with the assumption of the commitment of expenditure for the places put into competition. This is the case both in the forecast budget and in the multiannual budget; to say that there is an increase in costs for expenditure commitments already entered into and for accounting cover already found means to say something that is not relevant to the subject I am discussing. The question of turnover, I think, deserves a different insight. President Calderoli, I would like to conclude by not abusing further the time you are kindly giving me in surplus with a consideration. The difference between the financial law and the law of stability becomes increasingly visible in parliamentary passages. It is precisely for this reason that I have not been clear about the criteria by which the amendments tabled both in the context of eligibility and in terms of the expression of opinions have been assessed. I would like to hope that, already in the replies and in an evaluation of a large amendment that the Government is preparing to present so that we can speed up and summarize the work of the House, some issues will be understood, especially when they concern not changes in revenue or expenditure by the State, but the recognition of what is due to people, human beings who I believe have an acquired subjective right. I believe that an additional effort in this direction - and I say this to the President of the Commission, to Vice-Minister Morando and to the rapporteur, Mrs Zanoni - must be made with the Government because, while we are faced with a law of stability, we must also ensure that the parliamentary passage is worthy of this function. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u103	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u104	Mr President, the draft stability law we are debating is completely inconsistent and incomplete and shows for the umpteenth time that this Government and this majority do not have a planning of the future of Italy. If I remember correctly, at the time of his inauguration, President Napolitano said that in Italy there is a lot of politics, but there is no politics. The draft stability law under consideration is proof that no economic policy is being pursued, continuing to adopt measures that are almost buffer, emergency and last resort, without having a planning and a vision of where you want to go. We are examining a budget which is based on assumptions. To say that Italy is in a phase of overcoming the crisis, today it appears, even to the citizen, something utopian. We will be able to say that the crisis will probably be overcome when you will not see sharpenings which sheds of our companies signs with the written: "For sale". Perhaps at that time we will understand that the crisis is over. The bill of stability is also based on deception against our fellow citizens. It is thought that who knows what positive and beneficial remedies (I think of TASI) can derive from the bill of stability, while perhaps it is not understood that the funds are found going to tap into the health sector of our regions, thus creating problems, impasses and blocks on a system, such as that of health, that provides an essential service. Do we want to bring Italy to have an exclusively private health care? Suffice it to say, since you continue and persevere going forward with unusual cuts, that, as colleagues of the North League who have preceded me have also remembered, go to affect fundamentally the Municipalities and Regions, without realizing that they are harmed so are not the individual Municipalities and Regions, but all the citizens of those Municipalities and those Regions. So, in the end, nothing is being done with this bill of stability on the issues of work, pensions and security. I would also like to take this opportunity to say a few words about the situation in which the Ministry of Justice is dealing, since I am a member of the Senate Justice Commission. We are talking about further cuts in appropriations for the Ministry of Justice, thus taking away resources from a fundamental area and affecting the justice system which - let us be honest - is already compromised. We are doing something very serious when we are still cutting the resources for a sector where we are still talking about arrears, very long processes and the denial of justice. If you don't invest in justice, you don't invest in legality. Continue to persevere with trends that lead Italy to truly dramatic and definitely dangerous situations. I would also like to talk about the security sector. To silence all the resources that would be absolutely necessary for the police, in terms of men and means, to defend our territory, we are faced with the denial of a right, such as that of the renewal of the employment contracts of the police forces. In fact, poor alms of the order of a few euros have been paid which do not at all serve to reward for the work that are doing all those agents and carabinieri who work on the road, with the night shifts, for 1,500 euros per month and also risk losing their lives. I take the opportunity of this intervention to recall a great deception that is done against the Region from which I come, Veneto. For the umpteenth time, Veneto has been forgotten. I hope someone remembers the events of last July, when an air trumpet, which had all the characteristics of a tornado, caused devastation and considerable damage in the municipalities of Dolo, Mira and Pianiga. Only one form of aid to finance is provided for in the draft Stability Act under consideration. However, granting subsidies on financing means that the private sector must, in any case, ask for funding and pay for it. The amendment we have proposed as a Northern League Group is aimed at obtaining the EUR 100 million we asked for in order to rebuild these areas and also to give recognition to a people who have paid so much to the State, in terms of taxes, work and towing of an entire state. The result is only miseries, like those 2 million euros data only and exclusively to deal with an emergency situation; but, in the end, it was only the Region that acted. Now we have to go back to talking to those citizens who have seen the roof laid, damaged their homes, damaged their cars and tell them that, we are sorry, we have to manage, as we Venetians have always done: roll up our sleeves and continue to work. Let's go back to saying that this is a law of stability that still denotes the total incompetence by the Government and the majority to carry forward this Italy, at a time when it is really fragile. As we have seen, unfortunately, in the last few days, we are in a particularly fragile world and where the strength of a government must be demonstrated, the strength to have a vision, a programming, to think what our future is and not to make legends that in the end are just stopovers. [[Applause from Senators Crosio and Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u105	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u106	Mr President, there is something new that weighs like a boulder on our debate. After the attacks in Paris, the Europe of Maastricht must change its direction. Europe's 3% deficit-to-GDP ratio and growth-free rigour must open its eyes and realise that today's priorities are other vital priorities, such as security, defence against terror and the refugee emergency with its increasing costs. To clean up the accounts, of course, is virtuous, but to die healed would not be plausible for anyone. There is a historical fact - unprecedented - of which one must necessarily take note, even in discussing the law of stability. French President Hollande appealed to the clause of Article 42 (7) of the Lisbon Treaty, and therefore to the European mutual aid in the ISIS war on terrorism, and the other European countries responded positively. This means, for transitive property, that Europe as a whole is considered potentially at war; and war has its costs. Extraordinary costs as extraordinary is, indeed, war. So, you have to be consequent. The strengthening of security and intelligence mechanisms costs and the protection of citizens' lives is worth much more than the temporary sacrifice of European rules. In short, the security pact must prevail over that of stability and if Paris today feels legitimate to act with free hands, Rome must do the same, because under threat there is not only France, but the whole of Europe. It is not the cleverness of those who take advantage of an exceptional situation to find cover for failing to comply with the EU parameters or having deferred the budget balance; it is simply to take note of a new and terrible reality, which requires a strong and immediate response, which certainly cannot be marked with the metronome of budgetary accounting. Moreover, the new interpretative criteria laid down by the European Commission, which are concerned about stimulating investment and growth, have already granted more budgetary margins. Yesterday, President Juncker acknowledged that the extra costs that governments face to deal with ISIS must not be treated in the same way as other expenses and should therefore be considered outside the Stability Pact, announcing a new, sacrosanct flexibility factor. So there's no alibi left. I am not shocked if the government asks for more time to revise the appropriations for the security sector in a positive way: that the result arrives in the Senate or in the House is completely indifferent to me. The important thing is that you finally get out of the spiral of a spending review that has always been very shy in dealing with public waste but that has never hesitated in cutting the funds to security operators. Let's all stop with the hypocrisies and the lack of responsibility. The various governments Prodi, Berlusconi, Monti, Letta and finally Renzi have operated since 2008 as many as 6 billion cuts in security; they have recognized to those who sacrifice themselves in order to guarantee it to the citizens a specificity remained only an empty shell, and have never felt right towards the protests of the unions of Police; protests that have been before us to Arcore as before the Nazarene, against Alfano as against Maroni, against the technical ministers as against the political ministers, center-left and center-right. So let us stop accusing each other and instead pressure the Government to finally make available to security, in this bill of stability, all possible resources, which must be far greater than those announced so far. (Approx. 14,58) (Following Mazzoni). Good to invest in cyber security, but first of all a serious country must respect the dignity of those who guarantee order and public security. A further lowering of operating standards would, in fact, amount to suicide. Having made this unavoidable premise, it must be recognized that this is the first expansive manoeuvre after years of rigour, which has proved excessive and counterproductive. Much of the measures taken, together with the structural reforms that will have to be completed quickly, can help to sustain a still very weak recovery. The plan to lower the tax burden also to support consumption, as well as the lowering of the tax burden on companies, is positive. In addition, measures to make more effective use of European funding go in the right direction. But, immediately afterwards, it should be noted that the use of new safeguard clauses has not been definitively eliminated. This bill of stability introduces another bill of 2 billion. If the proceeds from the return of capital will not be equal to that figure, then on 31 March 2016 the increases in excise duties will be triggered for the residual part. The first safeguard clauses were introduced in 2011 by Tremonti and declined by Monti with the increase of VAT and excise duties on fuels. The new bill of stability - it must be acknowledged - reduces its burden, but does not eliminate them altogether. In the coming years, in fact, we will have to find resources of 26.9 billion in 2017 and 29.6 billion in 2018: penalty, the barely ventilated increases, on which the possible lower tax revenues, compared to the forecasts, deriving from the return of the capital. But above all on the South and on research the measures are completely inadequate. On the Mezzogiorno, if the aim is to reduce the growth gap with the rest of the country, the acceleration of expenditure co-financed by structural funds, on which the government focuses, appears completely inadequate. The Senate could not intervene, but this crucial point of the bill of stability must be greatly improved in the next parliamentary passage. The use of cash can be shared up to 3,000 euros. In this respect, I believe that the government must act to ensure that a single threshold for the circulation of cash is set at European level, so as to avoid competitive distortions between companies operating in different countries. The raising of the ceiling to the use of cash from 1,000 to 3,000 euros fulfills the need to ensure greater fluidity in transactions carried out also by foreign tourists, accustomed in their own countries to limits for the use of cash not existing or however much higher. Within the maneuver you can then count in about 5 billion euros the measures that, directly or indirectly, increase the income of the families. On the business side, the right direction has been taken with the increase in IRAP relief, the adjustment of the tax system of minimum taxpayers, the forecast of a super depreciation of investments in tangible goods, the repositioning of incentives for housing restructuring. The abolition of the IMU on large bolted machinery, then, was a demand that for some time came from the business world, a surreptitious production tax that was finally cancelled. Disappointing, too disappointing, the spending review chapter: a few billion partially sterilized by others of new expenses. Once again, unfortunately, there is no structural impact on public expenditure. It is a maneuver for half financed in deficit, not without one-off cover - and this is never good for a heavily indebted country - but, compared to the priority objective of recovery, some unfairness with respect to the sacred texts of rigour is certainly legitimate; all the more so if the deficit stops below the threshold of 3%. Finally, we must listen with great respect to the opinion of those who say that, because we are in a phase of growth, we must take advantage of it in order to consolidate public finances. That phase, however, is just at the beginning; it is very uncertain, and still has an extraordinary need to be sustained. There is so much growth to create and a deficit of 2.2-2.4% is not exactly that of a cicada country. The abolition of taxes on the first house has been much discussed. It is certainly right to argue that the priority must be to reduce the tax burden on labour and business, but it is difficult to deny legitimacy to the argument that, in a country like ours, house taxes directly affect confidence and consumption, as well as influence the recovery of a decisive sector such as that of construction. This move is therefore in the right direction, as it continues an economic policy that has its own rationality. At the same time, however, it is risky, because it is based on yet another postponement of the budget balance. And this not only makes us more vulnerable, but - as the Premier himself acknowledged - it means shifting the burden of adjustment to future generations, even if today - I repeat - the imperative is above all to guarantee our children the freedom we have enjoyed for decades and that Islamic terrorism is trying to suffocate. The costs of defending freedom are certainly more virtuous than all the totems of Maastricht's one-way rigour. [[Applause from the AL-A Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u107	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, before arriving at the Commission, I had defined the initial text of the Stability Act as a good premise on which to work, so that it would be a real instrument for the economic recovery of the country. We had welcomed many of the measures, starting with the abolition of taxes on the house, the agricultural IMU and the bolted ones, the extension of the use of cash to 3,000 euros; all measures that we had submitted to the attention of the Government in recent years and that, in turn, were urged by our territories. We believe that the work that has been carried out in the Commission has accentuated the reformist profile of the law not only on the economic field, but also on the social field and on the world of volunteering. Among the amendments accepted, it is very important for us to recognise the rights of public-owned companies dealing with social housing. This is a measure that, by filling a regulatory delay, frees tax resources that can now be allocated to those who need public support on the housing front. A thank you goes to the Government and Deputy Minister Morando for having understood and supported our request. Other important signs of attention in this regard are the amendment which maintains the exemption of farmers with an annual turnover of less than EUR 7.000 from VAT accounting requirements; the reduction of VAT for social cooperatives and that of the cuts initially planned for CAFs and patrons; the recognition of thermal care as expenditure for health purposes; the contribution to insurance coverage for persons volunteering for social purposes, but also the approval of the amendment exempting fire-fighting volunteers from the obligation of medical visits. We also welcome the acceptance of the agenda for the exemption from the payment of SIAE for beneficial events by Pro Loco and some voluntary associations such as the elderly circles, a agenda that we hope the House will transform into a law. Many recommendations have been made to the government, regarding the policies for the mountain, the small peasant property, the restoration of the tax of registration facilitated for the mountain territories also for the part-time peasants, which unfortunately in this law of stability has been increased from 12 to 15 percent; the reform of the societies of convenience; some norms for cultural volunteering or others that concern the agreed budget: they are all important issues that we will resume on the laws of field. On the economic side, we welcome the approval of our amendment on the facilitated removal of company assets also for individual companies, which strengthens the package of measures for VAT consignments and small businesses already contained in the initial text; as well as the exemption from payment of the registration tax for all plans and interventions aimed at promoting reordering and land recomposition, a theme particularly felt in mountain agriculture, where extreme parceling is one of the brakes on the growth and livelihood of this specific economic area, which is also fundamental for the environmental balance. I would also like to recall the amendment for the return of the brains and for the scholarships of my colleague Berger, as well as that - personally I consider it of extraordinary importance - tabled by Senator Cattaneo on the establishment of a National Fund of genomes, to show the great attention that our Group, thanks to Senator Cattaneo, manages to have on complex issues, but decisive for our country and for the role played also at international level. To the Government and to the relatori goes then our appreciation for the norms of safeguard of the special autonomys, for those that restore the respect of the financial agreement undersigned from the Government with the Region and the two Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano 15 October 2014 and subsequently transposed in the law of stability of 2015; as well as for the norm that reaffirms that the health of the special autonomys, being entirely supported with internal resources, cannot, for logical reasons, be interested from the national measures of rationalization of the expenditure. We of the Group For the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE believe that this law of stability puts in place important measures to promote growth and recovery. It is a law that gives Italians confidence, as the President-in-Office of the Council said. We agree with him, although we know that there is still a long way to go. I am referring in particular to the need to streamline the bureaucracy, which is a hidden tax for millions of Italians and for many businesses, which devote precious time and resources to these procedures. Just as I believe that there are still so many important things to do on the fiscal field. Just to give a few examples, I am thinking of measures to stimulate innovation in the company and I am thinking of implementing measures for self-employed workers, in order to move towards a genuine reform of the sector. On the latter, the link to this law of stability will be an important test ground for us self-employed. But I am also thinking of the whole agricultural world, given that this is perhaps the first law of stability that has such strong attention, even from an economic point of view, to this sector. The last measures we have approved give the sector, in addition to an important economic role, increasingly responsibilities from the point of view of the territorial garrison and its security, but also in the social field, and even give it responsibility to be the guardian of biodiversity. This is why it is necessary to simplify and promote the growth and multifunctionality of all those actors, beginning with the younger generations, who are able to engage in such a wide-ranging challenge. The Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE has provided this stability with a strong contribution of proposals, through several amendments covering all areas of public and economic life; these amendments were all constructive and documented. These are all unresolved issues that penalise our citizens, our families and our companies, which have been urged by the local authorities and institutions and which must be addressed by the Government and Parliament. Several of our requests have been accepted, many of the ideas and suggestions are in the unreported amendments and agendas. Some issues will be referred back to the House and in the other laws of the sector. I hope that the Government, represented in an absolutely worthy manner by an attentive and experienced Deputy Minister Morando, has gathered the ideas that have emerged. Finally, I hope that the House will keep the plant out of the Senate and address some issues that really need to be examined in depth, particularly with regard to the still insufficient simplification, the agricultural sector, the role of local authorities and the third sector. Just as I hope that, at least for the climatically disadvantaged areas, the reduced VAT for pellets will be restored. I would also like to thank the Commission and President Tonini, who inaugurated his new position with the most demanding of the measures and who was able to deal with the new role with great competence and a sense of balance. Thanks also to the two rapporteurs, who have been able to mediate the different positions and make proposals that have managed to sum up. Finally, I thank Deputy Minister Morando, as always sensitive and attentive, who has also managed to clarify procedures and help us to enter into the merits of the choices made by the Government. I hope that the climate of positive cooperation will continue in the future, in the interests of our institutions and for the effectiveness of our work. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I would like to begin my speech with a rhetorical question: what is the law of stability? To avoid, for reasons of style, a fantozzian answer, I will borrow the words of a great liberal economist like Nicola Rossi, who defined it as: The most important act for the government. It is the revelation, paragraph after paragraph, of his identity and vision. It is a message, written in the posts of a budget, to the partners in the world. A press release to the markets. A business card for investors. And then, if that is the definition, let's ask ourselves: what is the identity and vision that the Government transmits to us through this law of stability? What is the message to world partners, markets, investors? And above all, what immediate future does this maneuver draw for the country and its citizens? (15.14) (Followed by Mr Quagliarello). The first manifest message is a series of fiscal relief interventions, particularly on the home, certainly positive in itself. The second message, just as manifest as you want to see it, is that these interventions are not financed by subjecting an elephant and expensive public car to a slimming care, but by buying new debt. And, in the absence of real spending cuts and cover, any reduction in the tax burden is just an unlikely "pay" in the short term. More than a right hand! Not liberal recipes! We returned to the time when public debt was a magic wand to gain growth and consensus. But the economic and macroeconomic conditions of Italy, Europe and the world are quite different from those of the last century. We are in the context of a eurozone that is heading in exactly the opposite direction to that of stimulating growth through deficit policies. To operate countertrend thus exposes our country to the risk that the competing countries take advantage of our manoeuvres a little reckless and that Italy remains alone to pay the price. If we look beyond Europe, the situation seems even less reassuring: the growth of the emerging countries, the so-called BRICS, which have accustomed us to double-digit percentages, is suffering dangerous braking, while beyond the Atlantic the United States is experiencing a situation of growth without employment. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at this timid and uncertain stage we see signs of recovery. And we know that these few decimal places of growth are the difficult result of an expansionary monetary policy put in place by the President of the ECB, Mario Draghi. They are the result of an economic conjuncture that has seen a spread to the historical minima, the lowering of the rates with relative ease of granting of loans, the depreciation of our currency with relative benefits for 'export: a situation that perhaps never in economic history, and certainly in recent economic history, had occurred in our country. It was time to lay the foundations to make economic growth structural, freeing the country from the backsliding of debt and the consequent fiscal oppression. On the other hand, the most classic of social-democratic recipes, however revised and incorrect: from the tax and expenditure, a recipe from my point of view that is not acceptable but at least transparent, has been passed to the expenditure and tax, because it is spent today knowing that without adequate cover you will have to tax tomorrow, with interest. This law of stability is well guarded from attacking expenditure and debt, it is kept away from the untouchable shrines of statism. Producing new deficits, studies and weighs with wisdom small interests for many sectors, here reminded in the interventions that have preceded me, treating citizens, entrepreneurs, professionals, families as pawns, as commercial targets as carriers of consent. To quote a happy expression of Nicola Rossi, this law of stability is strong with weak and weak problems with strong problems. Of the nearly 30 billion of the ancillary version of the Stability Act - to take up one of the slogans of the last few weeks - two thirds are covered by debt. And this is not for structural investments that ferry our country to advanced standards of modernity, but to continue to feed the current expenditure. It is the same, old system with which for decades the weight of well-being has fallen on the shoulders of their children, resting on the fact that successive generations do not vote, or at least do not do so in time to politically sanction governments that buy flexibility for today by signing bills that expire tomorrow. The horizon of the bill of exchange coincides with the horizon of consensus. And, in the case of this law of stability, since we are in the age of speed - as my colleague Mr Mazzoni reminded me before me - we will not even have to wait for the generational relay, because the deficit maneuver has limited itself to moving to 2017, increasing them, the safeguard clauses on VAT and excise duties. Then there will be an ax of about 35 billion euros on our heads. Which - incidentally - should pose some questions to those who, with such confidence, believe that the legislature is destined to reach its natural end in 2018. It is, therefore, 35 billion euros or perhaps a few million more, because the (limited) reduction of taxes is covered by a hypothetical share of capital that should come back from abroad for 2016 and by a favourable development of the trend framework of public finance - I quote - from 2017 onwards. Translated into prose: we will find ourselves financing the lowering of some percentage point of IRES and IRAP with the increase of VAT. As in the most traditional round games, what comes out of the door comes through the window. Since, however, it is hardly useful to criticize, with fellow Senators Augello, Compagna and Giovanardi we had made eight concrete proposals for a targeted cut in public spending, taken from the report by Carlo Cottarelli and inspired by the warnings of Raffaele Cantone. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] , which would have produced savings of at least two billion structural per annum. Eight proposals aimed at attacking unproductive public expenditure, cutting pockets of clientele statism, eliminating unjustified income, in short, draining the soup of culture in which corruption grows and proliferates. We had proposed, among other things, a severe cut and a serious rationalization of the companies involved by the local authorities, the merger of the municipalities under 3.000 inhabitants saving the municipalities, the introduction of the standard costs for the operation of the regional councils. We had proposed to stop the regions from covering the cuts in health care with the increase in tickets. These proposals have been sunk down by the opposing views of the Government and the rapporteurs. Moreover, we had proposed a drastic rationalization of the expenditure on the buildings of the public administration and the abolition of bodies now anachronistic. On these last amendments the guillotine of the eligibility screening by subject has fallen. Incrediblely, it was considered that concrete interventions of spending reviews have no citizenship in the law establishing the flow of revenue and expenditure of the State and the use of them. By a government and a majority that uses this measure of rigour in the admissibility of the amendments, on the other hand, it is not expected that instead they will be accepted, and in good measure, in this same text, the entire decree "save Regions" in order to heal conducts that to a private person would cost very serious accusations from the judiciary, and interventions to guarantee the unchanged salary to the illegitimate executives of the Agency of income or for a grand prize. I love Formula 1 too, but perhaps the spending review has some greater relevance to the law of stability, lords of the government. Finally, allow me to say a few words about the South Chapter. In spite of the ambitious masterplans, we come out of this House with nothing in fact. We started in the original text with only two interventions, limited and sectoral, for the ILVA and the Land of Fires; then we went to roboating proclamations soon reduced to chirping in the succession of meetings between Government and majority, and in the end also of the very weak fiscal and contributory proposals residual has lost track. Everything has been returned to the Chamber of Deputies, where a new exhausting relay will begin. More round, more game. Or maybe, gentlemen of the government, another round. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senators Bignami and Davico]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u110	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u111	Madam President, I will refer to Articles 40 and 41 of the Stability Act, which refer to European issues. In these articles, in fact, all the problems related to the management of European funds, in relation to the processing of projects, to the use in a strict sense of the money made available by the European Union, linked to connectivity between the State and regions that now seems more conflicting than collaborative. First of all, we do not understand why in this bill of stability we should literally invent an escapism to draw on the funds of the previous seven years. Escamotage is necessary where bad work has been done and, since we are talking about 8 billion euros, we can safely say that from evil you can very easily go to the very bad. The proliferation of bodies responsible for managing the funds, the lack of their networking and the greed of administrators, or those who can put their hands on it, have relegated our country to an emergency situation even in obtaining these funds and this is absurd, given the conditions in which we find ourselves. Let us remember that what is given by the European Union we pay with our money, our taxes and our taxes. However, neither Article 40 nor Article 41 center on an organic and efficient way of making full use of funds even for the next seven years. On the contrary, local authorities' management centres would be created, which we really do not want to bear more burdens for the State, but which at the same time put the Regions in the grip of trying in this case too - as happened in the unblocking Italy and in the provision on public administration - to concentrate everything in the hands of the Presidency of the Council, also the money destined to the Regions. This would happen at a reasonable time, which is an expression that in a law does not mean anything, and therefore leaves to the imagination and discretion of the President of the Council the possibility to choose whether to commission the Regions, giving a huge political power to the President of the Council and also to the majority party, even for electoral purposes. Therefore, local government bodies are welcome, but Parliament is also actively involved at this stage, especially given that the content of the constitutional reform proposal put forward by this Government deprives it of its power. If the Senate is to be an expression of the Regions, then it is given the opportunity, together with the House, to give a binding opinion on the Commissariat in case of negligence of the Regions. The replacement power is often a way of controlling not so much the correct implementation of the rules and relations with the European Union as the chairs and the election games. We must also review the concept of transparency. In fact, the Fund for the transposition of European legislation is set up, which, according to this article, would also be used to pay the sums resulting from the litigation of the Court of Justice of the European Union, but it is not specified how to advertise how much part of the Fund is used for this and what the cases would then be cured. That is why we had asked, unfortunately not heard, for more transparency. We therefore call, first of all, for an ad hoc fund to be set up to settle the issues relating to the Court of Justice of the European Union, or at least to impose, under penalty of sanctions, every three months the reports relating to this stage of infringements. In addition to the audit of the Court of Auditors, we want the European intervention agencies to be subject to the supervision of the National Anti-Corruption Authority, in order to prevent fraud in the management of the Structural Funds, possible corruptions and potential infiltrations of organised crime. Unfortunately we do not trust those who have a sentenced to the day and the Anti-Corruption Authority seems to us a necessary control body in the management of so many billions of euros. In addition, we call for the abolition of Article 41 because of our opposition to the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFIS), which we abhor and which, if it is to be guaranteed by the State, becomes a double loop around the neck, as it would be an uncontrolled justification for the investments that the Cassa depositi e loani would make using the State as a guarantee, even in the event of bad decisions. The joint ventures with the States that fund terrorism are carried out using this Fund and we do not want the Italian citizens to finance, albeit indirectly (which is still to be verified directly or indirectly), terrorism. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u112	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u113	Madam President, I take advantage of the physical closeness to the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, for the position of the House and not for the political position, to draw their attention fundamentally to one issue. Without prejudice to the overall opposition that the Forza Italia Group carried out in the Budget Committee with the Senators Mandelli, D'Alì, Ceroni and other representatives who supported a series of amendments and carried out a responsible, timely and constructive action - our opinion is, therefore, overall negative of the measure - I would like to draw attention to the issue of security, which I personally raised with a number of amendments, which have been taken up in various responses. Yesterday in the Commission, President Tonini and Deputy Minister Morando had the courtesy to respond to my speech. But I would also like this to remain in the proceedings of this House. We have tabled a number of amendments on the subject of safety, even before the emergencies which are distressing us and which call on Italy to take action and carry out a series of tasks which the European Union also considers essential. This is to the point that the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, said that security must be taken outside the parameters of the budget: rightly, because we could not be found dead, but with the parameters respected, by terrorists; it would be a slim satisfaction for our successors. The correctness of the accounts and the respect of the roofs is certainly fundamental, but defending the security of our peoples is a requirement that comes first. We have tabled in particular Amendment 27.3 (I quote by heart, but I think that is correct) which provided for the provision of 1.5 billion for the public service and, in particular, one billion for the security-defense sector. This is because the Constitutional Court, in June, issued a judgment requiring the renewal of public employment contracts, blocked for years by governments of all directions for the economic difficulties that we know well. The Constitutional Court said in June that contracts should be renewed and that the past has passed. There are no compensatory measures for the blocking years, and that already means saving public finances, but for the future it was necessary to provide. July, August, September, October and November have come to an end, but neither has negotiations for the renewal of these contracts been opened and the appropriations provided for in the Stability Act have calculated increases - if the figures remain - of EUR 7 per month. This led to protests in the security and defence sector, in the police, in the trade unions, in the COCER, in the various military police forces. I must say then, Deputy Minister Morando, that the Government, in the hasty procedures of presentation of the law of stability, has also omitted a meeting with the unions of the security-defense sector and with the COCER, which in the past took place; they are ritual meetings and everyone knows that the most crowded green room are and are less useful. But I say to you that this meeting, this time, has been omitted; neither in the hearings, President Tonini, was there any way to recover. I am therefore presenting this situation which creates a particular discomfort for sectors of public life that we all consider worthy, deserving, heroic, when some misfortune happens. Let us consult them a little more, even if sometimes it is a pro form, but life is also made of respect for some rituals and representations of the legislative process. Having said that, we have been told: you are right, it is right. Then, after Friday, the situation became even more pressing. We will consider the House: I anticipate this answer, which I hope Deputy Minister Morando will have the ability to renew. You have now seen the European Commission's statement and, therefore, today we can do more than we wanted to do on Friday, unfortunately - I add - because its decision is a consequence of the renewed terrorist attack. We want to reiterate the various needs here, since the text will not change here, and we will also renew it with a view to examining the House of Deputies. There is the problem of contracts (judgment of the Court); there is the problem of the reorganization of careers in the field of police forces, which the Interior Minister Alfano has repeatedly announced not as a thing to do, but as a thing done, since he repeats it in the various television broadcasts. Then there is the possibility, given also the emergency created and therefore having deferred to the Chamber - alas - in a post-emergency climate - and I say unfortunately, because we would not have wanted this emergency - of a greater use of the Armed Forces in the activity of garrison of the territory. There is already the Safe Roads operation and various activities are underway: they can and must be expanded, and this entails a cost, but limited (because they are already forces in the state's staff), which I believe should be increased. There is a problem of investment precisely for the most basic security needs. We're traveling. We parliamentarians go to the stations, where there is no metal detector, either at Termini or at Santa Maria Novella station or at other important stations. Safety in rail traffic is just as important as safety at airports, where controls are a little more intensive. But there is a problem in all transport networks. Let's think about the big networks of metropolitans. Each evening, the news will be fun to show how in various metro stations in Rome everyone climbs over the turnstiles. But the problem is not only the payment of tickets, but also, when it comes to the law of stability and relations between the State and the autonomous and municipalized companies, it is important. Here we also think about the security problem. There is, therefore, also the aspect of the safety of the cities and of the garrison of the territory, and not only in the areas at risk and for the sensitive objectives: Paris teaches us that a ballroom and any restaurant become the target of terrorist madness. We should therefore spend more. I would like to leave out the events relating to the increase in military missions already under way. Italy already participates in the coalition engaged in the area of Syria, and so we are already facing costs. Everything allows us to imagine that they will grow, according to Obama's statements, for which ISIS must be destroyed, and Hollande's. "We need revenge": Hollande used this word exactly. I refer to the articles of the international treaties: the NATO Agreement, the Treaty governing the European Union, the Treaty of Lisbon, which Hollande and France have literally recalled in their various articles. And we, as NATO and the European Union, should subscribe to those treaties, fulfill the request of an ally and brother country that asks us to share the difficulties, which are moral, of risk, but also of cost. So, I tell the government that reflection must go beyond our proposals. It will be said: what does the internal staff have to do with it? Well, we all read that last Sunday for the Angelus, in St. Peter's, 700 more people were present in the security forces. It's normal, of course. But, being Sunday, who will pay overtime? It will be objected that the staff are sacrificing themselves. But if you ask the police, you will find that there is already a surplus of overtime that will not be paid and compensatory rest that will not be available. And then, if anything, threats are made: we will approve the law on torture! We will prepare the identification codes, as proposed by the 5 Star Movement, SEL and others. That is a shameful measure. I really hope that such an emergency will make the police more respected, even in fact. When the Di Battista on duty went to the square at the police demonstration, it was whistled the moment we said it was part of those who proposed the identification code. SANTANGELO (M5S). Enough, Gasparri! Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). It is in essence that we must be supporters of the police forces. Therefore, we ask that this issue, which you did not want to resolve here in the Senate even in the appropriate parts, as the implementation of the judgments of the Court, today, which relates to a wider emergency, be addressed, Mr Morando, with due attention and due commitment. Yesterday Renzi said he would make a proposal to all parties. But we're the ones doing it. We have already done this with our amendments: contracts, reordering of careers, safety in railway areas and in large transport networks, metal detectors, more armed forces employed in the supervision and defence of fixed objectives to allow police forces, with greater mobility, to do even investigative and counter-attack action. Last but not least, last but not least, I leave the whole problem of intelligence and other forces, which need means, but - be careful - also proper parliamentary control procedures. I say here to the Government that, still yesterday, it was rejected in the Chamber of Deputies, in the examination of the measure concerning international missions (decree that will then come to the Senate), the enlargement of the Copasir, where the Forza Italia Group is not represented. At a time when everyone calls for national cohesion, as is right in the face of such risks, a group of some importance is outside a body that can examine documents and news that, with the necessary confidentiality, especially at this stage are crucial. We are therefore disappointed by the rejection of the amendments, because the law of stability, dear Renzi, is not done to Sky, with the interviews on our knees. It is done in Parliament, with the measures adopted. And Matteo Renzi flunked them. Vice-Minister Morando, I would recommend two other amendments which have not received attention. One involves a small expense for the Istrian and Dalmatian communities, which I believe are entitled to. We spend billions on refugees all over the world, while in this case it is three million euros for some cultural initiatives. With regard to the RAI affair, the CEO and the Director-General have exceeded the public employment pay ceiling set at EUR 240,000, while the members of the Board of Directors, elected by the Parliament, are denied minor remuneration. I believe that it must be understood whether this too must be resolved by administrative acts - as I believe you, Deputy Minister, have said in the Commission - or by other means. These are two minor issues, but not least that I wanted to remind the representative of the government. Security in the House finds answers to our proposals. We are asking Renzi to act and not Renzi to propose pacts, since he denied answers to our amendments to the Senate. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u114	Senator Santini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u115	Madam President, representatives of the Government, Deputy Minister Morando, fellow senators, the text of the bill of stability approved by the Government represents in itself a strong intervention both for the strengthening of the path of growth, with the aim of bringing our development trend back to levels between 1% and 2% of other European countries, which for social inclusion - already did - and, in particular, for the fight against poverty. The objective, therefore, of the parliamentary approval process carried out in the Senate was to strengthen positive trends at a time when the need for it is apparent. 15:39 (Saints follow). The slowdown - as we have seen and heard from many analyses - of the international economy is worrying. Of course, the need to strengthen development paths is felt even more after the tragic events in Paris that, beyond any other consideration, are causing great uncertainty at international level with this widespread responsibility for the risk of terrorism. So, the goal that we set ourselves in the path here at the Senate was to revolve around these two themes: to strengthen the prospects for growth and the elements of social inclusion. The most important intervention that has been made - we can say this - in our path has concerned a considerable extension of the intervention regarding the choice of itself already important, to remove the tax on the first house. This intervention with strong social connotations has been enriched with other measures on social housing, on the reduction of the tax for rents agreed upon, for situations of family discomfort and difficulties. Action has therefore been taken to give this measure even more social character. On the other hand, we have tried to take measures to revive the construction sector, which is so important for our economy, and so, in fact, it has been shattered by the crisis. The target was the house surgery. We can say that a good job has been done that has given answers in both respects, both from the economic point of view in the strict sense, and from the social point of view. In order to remain on the subject of sociality, there are important points in this maneuver which Mr De Biasi has already mentioned. I am referring to the very significant intervention in the field of innovative medicines, which clearly has the sense of putting all the Italian people, especially all those who could not afford certain medicines, in condition of being able to take advantage of them equally effectively by those who have financial resources. Among these health interventions I like to recall the recovery on the basis of finally correct experimentation against diseases with an inauspicious outcome. Finally, on social issues, I would like to mention education policies. It had already been mentioned in the so-called provision of good school. Here additional elements have been introduced. There has also been some controversy on the subject of equal schools, but I would like to remind you that the intervention proposed in the debate in the Commission in the Senate aims to prevent schools from being closed, as is unfortunately happening in many parts of the country, thus guaranteeing, also for this way, the right to study, uneliminable as well as the scholarships that we have, even in limited form, refinanced together with the new recruitments of researchers and professors of universities. Finally, there is still a significant part of the social dimension in the financial documents before us in terms of policies to help the recovery of work, for example women following maternity leave, and to make a step forward with leave for fathers as well. These measures introduce - this is a significant fact which, in my opinion, little has been talked about - a new role for collective bargaining, making it a factor in the spread of a company welfare, i.e. a new form of income support for workers through social protection and services. It is important to remember also the reduction of the cut that had been planned for the CAFs and the patrons, but connected in a very strict way to policies of fiscal simplification in the case of the CAFs and of greater social assistance in the case of the patrons. On the subject of development, we can say that on the second line, the fundamental axis and the objective on which the Commission had begun to reflect is and remains the theme of policies for the South. The assumptions also present in many amendments were very strong and related to both tax credit for investment and policies to strengthen decontribution for recruitment. I would like to stress that the seriousness and complexity of the intervention and the need to identify precisely and not in a propaganda or uncertain way the instruments to be used make it necessary for this issue to be addressed at different times (not in ways); it will therefore be the subject of comparison in the Chamber of Deputies. However, we like to imagine, as in an ideal relay, that the witness who now passes to the Chamber will lead to a final result that will enhance the work done to the Senate by making it coincide with that done to the Chamber, because when you reach the finish line the first meters count as the last. I would like to point out that, during the debate in the Senate on the draft Stability Act, a number of important interventions have been made in so many areas of development. I am sorry that an experienced senator like my colleague Quagliariello has somehow trivialized this theme by identifying sectors as - I use his words - the target of consensus. I think that agriculture, tourism, small businesses and the fund for companies affected by the insolvencies of others are all areas of development and not of consensus. From this point of view, the framework intervention in agriculture has been divided into different forms: I am thinking of the exemption of accounting for agricultural entrepreneurs with a turnover of less than 7,000 euros, the tourism sector, the nautical sector, the thermal baths, the parks and the ecobonus sector, whose use has been extended to the furniture sector. These are all important elements to give continuity to this development framework. Certainly there are areas where little has been done, a little because of the characteristics of the stability law, a little because of the problems involved. For example, in the course of the debate, reference has already been made to the guarantee fund and, more generally, to the issue of credit. I believe that these issues, beyond the law of stability, are urgent issues on which to intervene. I am thinking in particular of the block still present on credit for all bank accounts and insolvencies, on which the parliamentary debate and the comparison with the Government will have to continue in the context of the examination of the stability plan and also beyond. The chapter of the institutions has been dealt with only partially for reasons also in this case objective, as on the topic of the Provinces and the Regions a difficult confrontation between these institutions and the central government is under way. Commons have been mentioned: in this overcoming of the Stability Pact (which in itself is a very positive fact), efforts have been made to improve the use of the funds that the Municipalities have, in particular the virtuous ones, in order to better engage them in investment. Something has been done and much will still have to be done in the coming times. Similarly, as regards the subject of the former Provinces, we think that the House - when it is discussed - should find a way to secure these bodies in the performance of their fundamental functions. These are important issues for citizens, such as the school service and the road service. On the regions it remains open and to deal with the issue of how to make a framework compatible, also in this case, of budgetary certainty and reduction of expenditure with the guarantee of the quality and diffusion of services. In the background there is a subject, the social security issue, on which it is not necessary - as some say - to dismantle the system. It is necessary, however, in addition to safeguarding the last realities that we still define with the term, unfortunately sadly known, of "exodati", to address a theme that is instead within everyday reality: that of the flexibility coming out for the many people who unfortunately still lose their work over the sixty years. I shall conclude my speech with this kind of reasoning. The law of stability represents a strong acceleration in the path started two years ago to give a perspective of growth to the country. With this financial manoeuvre, Mr President, important steps are being taken; there is a path that has been taken and a path still to be taken by other acts in the House and in the near future. The important thing is that this happens in the right direction and above all with the aim of restarting the country, to look with more certainty and more force to the future that awaits us. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u116	The joint general debate is closed. Since the rapporteur, Senator Chiavaroli, has given up her reply, I call the rapporteur, Senator Zanoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u117	Mr President, I should like to speak briefly. The two of us have alternated, but we have followed quite all the speeches. I have to say that some speeches are also acceptable, although some choices have been dictated by external events and by the speed with which decisions have to be taken. I am referring, of course, to the issue of the South: for all of us it was like seeing a subject that we had started working on and that we thought we could lead here. I think he's human, for all of us, a little bit of displeasure. Moreover, I would remind all my colleagues that sometimes the opposite happens: the decree-law on local authorities had been examined here, the House had touched nothing and confidence was placed immediately. Perhaps it is also right that, on the occasion of the stability law, the part about local authorities should come - as they say in technical language - worked more in the House. Now we will not lack the work; we have had to examine this measure quickly, but we have other things to do, on which we will start working in the Senate, while the other branch of Parliament will deal with the law of stability. I believe, therefore, that, in a proper balance, even as a role, between the two branches of Parliament, it is right to say that we do things with greater depth in one branch and the other I do not say that it takes note of them, but takes on the themes already worked out. As far as the substance is concerned, I believe that there can be different assessments. Some data on growth in employment and gross domestic product are incontrovertible. Even more cautious evaluations can be made than in the future. It is clear that the episodes of these days consolidate a trend of greater risk than the latter, perhaps even, years and not just a few months. Fear among our citizens is perceived a bit these days. In some cities, such as Rome, there is a clear feeling, even if only because of the presence of the Forces of Order. We must ensure, however, that this does not affect our lives, and above all our economic life, because if fear and insecurity lead us to no longer attend restaurants and bars, this also has significant economic reflections. Therefore, we must have the courage to go forward, as we said this morning, to do our work well and, above all, here in the Senate and in the House, to prepare all those measures that can help our social life. As far as the local authorities side is concerned, the hearings were held, we heard the ANCI. There the agreement was already closed; as always it can be done more and more, and therefore the ANCI has made some proposals again. That on staff is a game on which we must reason, also for the continuation of the mobility list, still to be disposed, of the former Provinces. This remains a problem for local authorities and, beyond the 25% constraint, is a constraint on local capacity and organisational possibilities. Moreover, we here - as we have said - have made choices in the use of what could be the money at our disposal. If we wanted to make the choice to unlock a 25 percent piece of the roof, as they say, on the public administration, we would have to make different choices, that is not to address the issue of rents, which instead we wanted to deal with, and dedicate part of that money to this topic. It is clear that we have made different choices; they may or may not be shared, but we have given ourselves certain priorities. We said that the theme of rents was to complete the maneuver, which saw a relief on the owners. We decided to give refreshment to the CAFs and the patrons; we decided to cover the Palermo ATA. We made choices, you know. Of course, each of us wanted different; not only between parties, but also to the whole of the same party the list may be different. This is what the agreement has been reached on and which has been voted on. Therefore, on staff I believe that an assessment is necessary of what are still the mobility lists, which have not been disposed of in the time it was planned to dispose of, otherwise the organization of the institutions will begin to suffer. We can hold on to hiring for a while, but at some point we cannot replace a cantonist with a cook, and unfortunately in the local authorities we have very rigid production functions, with many production functions within the same agency, even when it is small. The problem of security will certainly also affect our budgets, because we cannot think of making security without money. Some people said that you can't go healthy with dried figs; the same goes for safety. So, probably shortly, the government will tell us how it intends to address the security problem and will certainly require ad hoc resources. Many questions have been asked about secondary issues, on which I do not think I should intervene. I thank everyone for this supplement of ideas, information, evaluations, even critical ones, because, as already in the Commission, they have served. The conference here is wider; the debate in the Commission has been rather complex and lengthy because we have had to examine all the 3,500 amendments for at least a first time. Then, on some of them, we went further and the debate was quite extensive and articulated. I believe that the general debate in this House can further help us to understand whether our forecasts are reliable. We have the advantage of a second passage to the Chamber: if we have made some mess, even from the technical point of view, we have this small parachute. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u118	As the minority rapporteur, Senator D'Alì, does not intend to speak in response, I call the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Dr Morando.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u119	Mr President, in first thanking all those who took part in this debate, I would like to begin by taking up a judgment that was made by Senator Carraro in his speech, who, referring to the quality and characteristics of this budgetary manoeuvre, said that it was apparently expansive. This concept was then substantially taken up by Senator Tosato, who said that this seems to be any maneuver in recent years. Well, I think not: simply, this public finance maneuver is not apparently, but actually an expansive maneuver. This, Senator Carraro, is frankly not an opinion, but a fact, because in current legislation, i.e. if this maneuver was not made, the debt of the public administration in 2016 would amount to 1.8% of gross domestic product. With the maneuver, the debt provided for in current legislation from 1.8 goes up to 2.2% of the product and, as is provided for in the stability bill, if what we mean to call the immigration clause is recognized - but that is actually the clause of exceptional events invoked this year by many countries according to the government and the management of the phenomenon of immigration - at that point, debt would increase from 2.2% to 2.4 percent. If debt goes to 1.8% in the current legislation, i.e. without any manoeuvre, while debt goes alternately, depending on how the clause ends, to 2.2% or 2.4, this is a mathematical demonstration of the fact that this is a bill of stability and a draft budget law, thus an expansive public finance maneuver. From here on begins the evaluation - which cannot be a negation of the expansive character of the maneuver, as has been mentioned in numerous interventions, for example in one of the last ones that have been made, that of Senator Quagliariello - about the use that is actually made of this additional financial space, which qualifies the maneuver as expansive. Of course it is not only free, but very advanced among us the discussion about the use of these financial spaces. But on the fact that the maneuver has an expansive character, there can objectively be no doubt. Now, why could an expansive maneuver be made? Precisely because I think Senator Tosato isn't right, but he's wrong. That is not true, even here trivially, and it is not based on real data that the judgment that this budgetary manoeuvre is essentially similar - not identical, of course not said by Senator Tosato - to all those who preceded it. Why isn't that the case? Because in reality - for reasons that I will call quickly and that are not all referable, indeed in a considerable amount, referable to the action of this Government - we are faced with a bill of stability and a budget maneuver and the public finances of turn compared to the previous ones. You see, the turning point is when we look at the relationship, in this and in the previous terms, between the two fundamental terms that concern what is called the Stability and Growth Pact in Europe. Stability and growth. Instead of using the word'stability', we use the expression 'consolidation of public finance', so it is clearer. The two crucial terms of fiscal policy have been fiscal consolidation and growth for many years. Now, until last year in practice understood, the relationship between these two terms, in the maneuvers that follow at least from 1992 onwards in Italy, was the following (it is hardly sustainable in my opinion an opposite thesis): fiscal consolidation and growth are always the terms of reference, only that in the previous phase the fundamental objective was fiscal consolidation, while growth, another fundamental reference term, was a constraint. That is, we were in a difficult situation of public finance and we had to intervene by correcting the debt tending to existing legislation, which went too high. This has been the subject since 1992: too much debt, we have to correct, consolidation is therefore the goal we must achieve, but - it was added immediately - be careful to do so so that it penalises growth too much. So it was said to pursue consolidation taking into account a constraint. And the constraint was: all the necessary consolidation, but with the least possible penalty of growth. Why do I say less penalty? Because a financial consolidation operation by definition, not because I say it, but because common sense says it, being a restrictive maneuver, at least in the early years it has a effect of reducing growth and of a restrictive type; in essence, if you do not make the maneuver, of course the product would grow. Now, in this maneuver the reversal of the relationship is quite evident. The fundamental objective is growth, while fiscal consolidation, i.e. stability, which certainly cannot be put in the background, becomes a constraint. We must pursue growth goals and for this we are making an expansive maneuver of public finance - we have just heard a well-organised criticism from Senator Quagliariello about this vision, but at the moment I am describing the facts of reality - and of course we want to do so respecting the constraints of European rules and therefore not causing problems on the fiscal consolidation side. The relationship between fiscal consolidation and growth, traditionally organized around the fact that fiscal consolidation was the goal and growth the constraint, is reversed: growth becomes the objective and consolidation is a constraint. Since I imagine that this speech is accused of propagandism, in the name of the fact that this would be a sort of vanagloria of the Renzi Government, it is clear immediately that the determination of the conditions for this reversal of the relationship between fiscal consolidation and growth is not only due to the Renzi Government. This is not the case for obvious reasons. The first reason is that there has been the action of the governments that preceded this, which have operated on the side of financial stability and fiscal consolidation effectively, at least from the perspective of determining a level of debt and a primary surplus certainly inferior to those that would have been determined under existing legislation. I am not giving a qualitative judgment of the action of these governments, but I merely note that since the last year of the Berlusconi Government and so on with the successive governments, maneuvers have been made to stabilize public finance that to a large extent have been successful and that today of course they manifest their effects on public finance in such a way that conditions are created so that that reversal between consolidation and growth of which I have spoken can take place. The second reason is the progressive change - and here there is a role of the Italian Government which is difficult to deny - of the fundamental orientation through which the Commission in Europe, in particular, exercises its supervisory activity and preventive action on the budgetary policies of the Member States. It is quite clear that for reasons that would be nice to highlight, but now I cannot do so for a matter of time, the political character of the Juncker Commission has no precedent in the history of Europe. And in my opinion this essentially stems from the fact that Juncker - no matter what you say - was chosen by the voters, then the governments and Parliament made their choices, but those choices were consistent with the orientations expressed in the vote, as they were committed to doing. Juncker is not the candidate President of the Commission for which I voted - I voted for Schultz, so to speak, by voting for the Democratic Party - but there is no doubt that it is a qualitative leap that European voters have had this choice in their hands. This is because the Juncker Commission feels the pressure of the people far more than it did with the previous Commissions, however we want to see it. We have therefore been able to obtain the January communication on the Commission's monitoring activity, which is a huge leap in quality with regard to the basic guidelines for fiscal and economic policy in Europe. The third element that favours the change we are making is the orientation of the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, of which many have spoken, so I can go straight to the last point, and in this regard we come to the Renzi Government in particular. Another decisive factor was the impressive whole - to quote the adjective used by Mrs Merkel - of structural reforms carried out by our country in the last year and a half. It is clear that we can invoke the reform clause - and we do it successfully for 0.5 points of GDP - not because we use the term structural reform, but because we have made structural reforms and I am not quoting the list here, because you know it better than I do, because you have been the protagonists of the decision on the need and the opportunity to make those reforms. It is from here, therefore, that in our country the conditions have been created for having a fiscal and budgetary policy, which is primarily an expansionary policy and, secondly, a policy of turning, compared to the very long phase behind us, basically since the early 1990s. The second point I would like to focus on is what Senator D'Alì, a minority rapporteur, said, which I thank for his report, which allows our debate to develop on a solid ground, capacity and alternative proposals. In the same way, I would like to thank the Senators of the 5 Star Movement Group for their speeches, who in particular stressed the presence, among their amending proposals, of the amendment aimed at introducing what is called citizenship income. It is clear that in that case there is a proposal, which assumes a clearly alternative profile to that of the Government. Well, the debate in the Budget Committee and in this House on fiscal and budgetary policy makes sense if the majority proposes its solutions in general terms and the opposition exercises its right, but also, in a certain sense, its duty to outline alternatives, which are proposed, at least in words, as radical alternatives, with respect to the choices made by the Government. In this field there is no doubt that there is a rather clear alternative between the solution that we propose, with the policies against absolute poverty, referred to in the text of the bill of stability at our examination, and the proposal of the 5 Star Movement. As I said, Senator D'Alì spoke of an absence of cuts and even Senator Bellot said that there was no work on cuts in public spending. If it's instrumental criticism, let's forget about it. If instead, as I think, they are criticism to be taken seriously, because they are not instrumental, but aimed to emphasize what the senators and the senators consider to be a real limit of the fiscal policy of which the bill of stability is expression, then I think that the conditions are being created for that operation of convergence on the objective of qualification and reduction of the public expenditure, that they realized in August of 2011. At the time, the opposition tabled an amendment, of which Senator Anna Finocchiaro - whom I see here before me and who was the Group's leader, of which I was honoured to be a member at the time - was a signatory - on the basic approach to the revision of expenditure, which the then Minister Tremonti welcomed. It was therefore the opposition that urged the government's commitment to a strategy to reduce and retrain public spending. It is not true that with the adoption of that strategy and the adoption of that amendment nothing has changed. That amendment has placed on different bases the management of public finance in Italy and that of the reduction of spending has become a fundamental objective, to be lived together, of course, with fiscal policies pro-economic expansion, which unfortunately, to a large extent, have not been there. Has that initiative led to results or not? I do not want to bore you with the numbers, but I invite you to read the table of the Update Note to the Economy and Finance Document, on page 33, i.e. the public finance framework under current legislation. There you will find, for the years that we have behind us and for those that must come, the impressive effect of reduction, of putting under control the public expenditure that has been realized thanks to that turning point. The problem is that the margins for that policy, which we believe to be largely interpreted in a conservative and non-innovative way on the reform front, have been exhausted. Where, then, should we start again together, if you really believe, dear friends of the opposition, in the policy of reviewing expenditure? If you really believe that we must start again from the delegated legislative decrees for the reform of the public administration: 18 articles (and not one) of that bill provide for reductions and savings of expenditure; but the problem is that none of them has been encrypted. That saving is possible (the law says), but indefinite. The indefinite nature of that saving results in a deficit of political responsibility towards politicians and administrative responsibility towards the leaders of the public administration. If we want to take action together, I propose to the President of the Senate Budget Committee that we promote an initiative that discusses in depth the margins that exist in this regard not for 2016 and (I say we clear the ground from impossible goals) not even for 2017. However, in 2018 do we want to associate with the implementation of delegated legislative decrees implementing the reform of public administration of quantitative savings targets? This is a strategic choice that meets with that on the revenue side that, in the discussion that we have carried out, was proposed by Senator Guerra, who presented a plan of contrast to the tax evasion realized through the crossroads, by the financial administration, of the information possessed and today unable to interlogate effectively within the databases of the financial administration in order to emerge VAT tax base, waiting that, as has been said, VAT evasion is the mother of all the evasions. Then, on the one hand, it is appropriate to set for 2018 (not before) quantitative reduction targets, Senator Quagliariello, organizing this work together and comparing ourselves in the seat of Parliament, the Budget Commission; in 2018 to identify savings of expenditure related to the redesign - as you said - of the public administration and its field of organization; on the other hand, in 2018 we make successful goals in the fight against evasion to create the conditions to discuss how the safeguard clauses are exceeded. This is the third point I want to talk about and then I will finish, Mr President, if I still have some time. In this regard, Senator Del Barba said something that I consider very important, wondering what it makes sense to say that the overcoming of safeguard clauses (which under current legislation provide for the increase of VAT in 2016, 2017 and 2018 and the increase of excise duties) is the overcoming of a virtual tax. Senator Del Barba rightly said that last year, in the debate on the law of stability, the oppositions sacrosanctly emphasized the fact that in the policy framework the tax pressure increased in 2016, 2017 and 2018 and did so because the tax pressure incorporates the safeguard clauses. But the safeguard clauses are current legislation, they are decisions taken: I do not mean whether properly or not, I say that they are part of the legislation in force. Here it has been said that they are postponed and not surpassed: Senator Quagliariello also said so. I am sorry, but that, in turn, is a completely unfounded statement. The 2016 safeguard clauses are zeroed, like those 2015. But if in the case of 2016 it has an effect of zeroing the safeguard clauses, in the case of the structural component of that zeroing intervention it downloads on the safeguard clauses of 2017 a positive effect of 11,1 billion. It is therefore not true that this is a measure aimed at deferring: the measure exceeding the clauses for 2016 is projected on 2017, reducing the safeguard clause by 11.1 billion and in 2018 by 9.4 billion. What is the sacrosanct problem, which Senator Quagliariello emphasized? It is the fact that in 2017 and 2018 there remain 15 billion safeguard clauses (there would have been 26, if there had not been the intervention we are doing) and 20 billion in 2018. That is why I stressed before action on expenditure and action on the fight against tax evasion must assume the 2018 objective as a formalized objective in the legal text. A final comment on the Mezzogiorno, then I say something about safety and I'm done. As far as the Mezzogiorno is concerned, I believe that a mistake is made when it is said that the work of the Senate has been frustrated by the fact that the Government has decided to carry out this intervention materially through a legislative initiative of the House of Deputies. When we began this debate here in the Senate, we did not have a very important political fact at our disposal today, which is that, in the presence of repeating - what I intend to do - the Government's intention to make an additional intervention compared to those provided for by the Stability Act on the Mezzogiorno, we had the amending proposals on what to do that came from all the Groups. These amending proposals from all the Senate Groups, with the exception of one, concern the same proposals. Therefore, the Chamber of Deputies has a job of defining proposals (automatic tax credit for investments or increase for the Mezzogiorno of the so-called decontribution for new recruits 2016, of which you all know and which I do not now explain), which have been advanced by all the Groups: from Forza Italia to SEL. I think it is a mistake to put the work we have done in the wrong place, which has made a very important political fact. [[Comments of Senator Giovanni Mauro]] Finally, Senator Gasparri stressed - but he did not do it only, because many others did - the theme of safety. The Government confirms its intention to develop an initiative on this point in relation to the opposition forces for the situation that has arisen. On this point I want to say only one thing and I shall end by saying that we must not only use the direction of the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, who, by showing that he has a political function and not a bureaucratic function, has already taken a position on the application of European rules to this issue. We must not only say 'Europe' to give the financial space to each individual State so that, as far as its business is concerned, it can intervene in its own home, but we must make a qualitative leap in the given situation: to build the conditions for the development of initiatives on the security side of our citizens to have a European dimension from the outset. Not only the resources and the financial space, but also the projects. Because, now, the dimension of the war in which we are engaged is such that it implies that Europe fights it in solidarity. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u120	With the reply from the representative of the Government, the joint discussion of the measures on the agenda was concluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u121	We greet a representation of students from the School of Law of the University of Florence, who are following the Senate's work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u122	We shall now proceed, pursuant to Rule 129 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, to the examination of the articles of the draft budget law. I would point out that, with the approval of the individual articles, the tables, the general frameworks, the annexes and the lists referred to by the articles themselves are also to be approved and are to be found in the printed form. Pursuant to Rule 129 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the final vote of the draft budget law will be taken only after the final vote of the draft stability law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u123	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u124	I am in agreement with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u125	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2.Tab.100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.Tab.100, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.Tab.101, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.Tab.102, tabled by Senator Taverna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 2.Tab.103, tabled by Senator Taverna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.Tab.104, tabled by Senator Taverna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.Tab.105, tabled by Senator Taverna and other senators. (The vote was followed). [[Senator Taverna points out that she wants to intervene.]] I shall cancel the voting procedure. Senator Taverna, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u126	Mr President, I am sorry that I did not speak during the course of my speech, so that I could avoid speaking in an explanation of vote. It was particularly interesting to understand the ratio underlying the decision to cut the sums to be paid to public schools and hospitals that provide gluten-free meals in canteens. In this way we do not pursue a logical thread in the government's interventions on cuts, which are made exclusively to finance electoral marches such as that of the tax on the first house for which the Premier, in order to carry it to completion, did not look at what went to cut. We have seen that health has been the most affected sector: in this law of stability it has seen a cut of four billion. I wonder whether it is absolutely essential to cut further a service that should be owed by the State to ensure health at least within hospitals and school canteens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u127	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.Tab.105, tabled by Senator Taverna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.Tab.106, tabled by Senator Taverna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.Tab.107, tabled by Senator Taverna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.Tab.108, tabled by Senator Taverna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 2.Tab.109.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u130	Montevecchi (M5S). As I said in the Budget Committee, the aim of the amendment was to block yet another cut in the horse sector. The section awaits an intervention from January 2014, when in the law of fiscal delegation to the letter f) - if I remember well - was conferred delegation to the Government for the reorganization of the field. When we talk about horseback riding, I would also ask you to think about the whole chain linked to that world and, therefore, to jobs and families. So this year too we are faced with yet another cut. I am also aware that previous positions on payments have not been remedied. I am speaking to the Government, which is not listening to me, because I would like to see the problem of horse racing raised here. If we decide that the section must be converted into something else, we must pose the problem of all these people who will lose work; otherwise we stop perpetrating the cuts and finally we arrive this decree to reorder that the horse is waiting not from 2014 but for some time immemorial. I understand that this amendment will be rejected today because there is no money, but put this problem to you, because there are families who are losing their jobs and there are people who are ending up on the road. It is a sector that is dying in general indifference.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u131	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 2.Tab.109, tabled by Senator Montevecchi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 2, with the attached table and list. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3 and the annexed table, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u132	I am against Amendments 3.Tab.100 and 3.Tab.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u133	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u134	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 3.Tab.100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.Tab.100, tabled by Senators Girotto and Castaldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.Tab.101, tabled by Senators Castaldi and Girotto. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 3, with the attached table. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4, with the table attached. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 4, with the table annexed to it. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5, with the annexed table and appendix. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 5, with the annexed table and appendix. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6, with the annexed table and appendix. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot in Article 6, with the annexed table and appendix. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7, with the table attached. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Article 7, with the table annexed to it. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 8, with the annexed table, list and appendix. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 8, with the annexed table, list and appendix. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9, with the table attached. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Article 9, with the table attached to it. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 10 and the annexed table and list on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u135	I am against Amendments 10.Tab.101 and 10.Tab.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u136	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u137	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 10.Tab.100. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.Tab.100, tabled by Senators Scibona and Cioffi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.Tab.101, tabled by Senators Scibona and Cioffi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 10 and the attached table and list. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 11, with the annexed tables and lists. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 11, with the annexed tables and lists. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 12, with the table attached. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Article 12, with the table attached to it. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 13, with the table attached. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13, with the attached table. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u140	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that my vote on Article 13 was actually against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u141	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 14 with the table attached. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote of Rule 14, with the table attached. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 15. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 16, with the summary framework and the annexed tables. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Article 16, with the summary framework and the attached tables. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 17. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, the votes of the articles and amendments of the draft law approving the state budget are thus exhausted. I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 129 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, the final vote on the draft budget law will only be taken after the final vote on the draft stability law. We will now continue with the discussion of the stability bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u142	He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u143	Mr President, since the Budget Committee has been late in its work and the State Accounting Office has the need to carry out a technical audit, I call for the suspension of work until 8 p.m. to allow this verification, in the knowledge that the large amendment on which the Government will put the question of trust will be respectful of the work of the Commission and of the text fired there. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u144	So we suspend the Senate's work until 8:00 p.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 4.45 p.m. and resumed at 8.11 p.m.) Let's resume our work. He asked the State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance to intervene Baretta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u145	Mr President, Senators, the General Accounting Office of the State has informed us that the boiling process is practically over but, with the experience of the past, the Government will deliver the text at 9.30 p.m. this evening.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u146	The sitting will therefore resume at 9.30 p.m. Announcement that tomorrow morning our work will resume at 9 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u147	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u149	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, with great respect, since we have already seen these things, we would not like to come back here at 9.30 p.m. and hear that we are back at 11 p.m. Since we know each other, undersecretary Baretta, I say it with deep respect: do your homework and see you tomorrow morning, so we have all the time. So we'll have the certainty that things are in order. We do not want to go back to this House unnecessarily at 9.30 p.m., which seems to us to be a mockery. I do not know what other colleagues think, but we have already seen such a situation a short time ago.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u150	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u152	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Excuse me, Mr. President, let me get this straight. It is said that the boiling is almost ready: but do we take it for granted already? We took it for granted hours ago. You or whoever for you, or at least the President of this House, has suspended the Senate's work because perhaps the Government would have had a great deal of good amendment to make. Not knowing if it was there or not, we stopped. There's no leaf moving, that someone over there doesn't want to. Is this a game? We should have gone ahead with our work, and when the government had something to say, it said it. Once it was played on the wire of the cents of a second, between our request not to switch to the articles and the intervention of Minister Boschi. We're gonna stop this for hours now.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u155	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to support Senator Crosio's proposal, because we would like to avoid, having a little more time available, what we have seen in recent years, i.e. non-existent or last-minute paragraphs, repeated paragraphs and internal contradictions. All in all, it doesn't make much difference to wait a little longer. If anyone is afraid of making a bad impression, I would say that this has been largely done and is widely taken for granted, so the logical thing would be to reconvene the session for tomorrow morning. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u158	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am frankly a little surprised, because today undersecretary Pizzetti, when he asked to suspend the sitting and resume work at 8 p.m., had specified that in the maxi amendment there were only the content of the amendments already approved by the Budget Commission. Moreover, as you know, the Commission's work ended yesterday and so there was plenty of time to examine it and have the technical report and the boiling. I do not think that the amendments that have been adopted have any idea what complexity or how much resources has been changed. So, frankly, I'm a little surprised that we're not ready yet and we'll be back at 9:30 if the boiling is ready. Let's remember the past experience: last year too, I don't know how many times we were called back, to find out that things were not ready and we went on for hours. I do not know who in the government is really able to ensure that the recovery time is respected at 9.30 p.m., but it would be common sense at this point, since you also decided to anticipate tomorrow morning's session at 9 a.m., to work calmly, without having problems, reconvening tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. President Gasparri, I believe that this is a more profitable job for everyone, even for this blessed boiling.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u159	I understand the comments made also in the light of the previous ones, but the Presidency believes that it trusts... [[Senator Bonfrisco points out that she wants to intervene.]] Excuse me, Senator. I didn't see you asking for the floor. Please, I call you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u160	Mr President, I am speaking only to bring back to the memory of all of us one of the most tragicomic nights in Parliament's history, when a text of the maxi amendment arrived full of errors. We would therefore like to spare the Government yet another figure of this kind and, above all, we would like to spare it from the dignity of Parliament. I therefore agree with Senators Crosio and Malan's proposal to grant the Government an extra night to write a text correctly, which, as Senator De Petris said, does not have such an important financial scope and for which it is not necessary to find or adapt financial coverage, because these were already indicated and correctly identified by the amendments of the rapporteurs, which were well written, well weighed and above all well quantified, and for which I do not understand what further deepening is necessary. However, the work of the Accounting Office is very important, so let us give it a few more hours, but let us not be disrespectful of a Parliament which cannot be gathered from hour and a half to hour and a half in the middle of the night. I do not understand why this government likes to work at night so much, perhaps when cats are grey or less visible: let's do it in the sunlight and especially in front of the eyes of the Italians, tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u161	I have to say that the House is in the same luminosity in the morning at 9 a.m. as well. I have taken note of these speeches, which I understand; however, since the Government has guaranteed that the document will come by 21.30 and frankly this is not a prohibitive time for our work, I think it is right to give this opportunity. I therefore suspend the sitting until 9.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 8.18 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.) The session is resumed. He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u162	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I would like to raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment, which I am going to present, entirely replacing the articles of draft law No 2111 which amend the amendments approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u163	The Presidency takes note of the question of confidence in the approval of the amendment tabled by the Government, which is entirely a substitute for the articles of draft law No 2111. In accordance with practice, I transmit the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission so that, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it will inform the Assembly of the financial coverage profiles. I therefore call upon the Conference of Leaders to organise the relevant debate. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 21.31 a.m. and resumed at 21.45 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u164	The session is resumed. The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the text of the 2016 Stability Act. The timing of the general discussion on confidence, which will begin tomorrow morning, following the opinion of the Budget Committee on financial coverage profiles, has been broken down according to specific requests from the Groups, in accordance with the annexed scheme. The explanations of vote will follow, and 15 minutes have been allocated to the Mixed Group. The call will start around 12 o'clock. The session will then be suspended to allow the Government to present the Note of changes to the budget which, as soon as forwarded, will be immediately referred to the 5th Permanent Commission. The Assembly will then proceed to the vote of the Note of variations and the final vote of the draft budget law, with the presence of the quorum. I remember that tomorrow morning's sitting, as has already been agreed, will begin at 9 a.m. Time distribution for discussion on the issue of trust [[PD - FI-PdL XVII 15' M5S 60' AP (NCD-UDC) - Mixed 20' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE - AL-A - LN-Aut 25' GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI) - CoR 15']]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u165	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-539.ana.u166	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Friday, November 20, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.47.
