ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 4 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 859, 1357, 1378, 1484 and 1553, in the unified text proposed by the Commission. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general debate and the rapporteur's reply took place. I call the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Nencini.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating today has not only significant symbolic value. I will mention only very few data, confirming the validity of the measure that the House is about to take today. Over the last five years, Italy has seen the number of deaths on the road plummet in the various types up to a measure of about 50%; with the latest ISTAT data, we are entering almost in line with the measures that the European Union has handed over to its states. I fully agree with those who believe that this measure of adaptation to European standards can soon be achieved. We owe a great deal to point driving and greater safety on the roads, but we will also have to do a great deal about the maintenance of some Italian roads, especially in the Mezzogiorno of Italy, where, as we have been specifically told, some accidents cause the deaths of women and men without any responsibility. In the face of a vertical fall in the number of deaths on the roads, there is an estimated eighty worrying rise in deaths which are caused by reasons that we can define as absolutely non-indirect, and therefore deaths on the basis of responsibilities. It is not easy to find a precise measure in the number: there are those who claim that they are between 25 and 27 percent and who now cries the number around 30-33 percent. I'm talking about actual road murder and deaths on the road caused by drunk drivers (drunk, as they say from my side, without any other form of linguistic subtlety from Bran Academy). We have rules that can be applied, of course, and that have been applied, but in the total number, in this form of actual road murder, in clear and very worrying rise, we are faced with a judiciary that applies very slight penalties. I will not go into the matter, because then the undersecretary Cosimo Ferri will do it, with his ability and his competence, but the numbers we face are worrying from two points of view: on the one hand, the rise of this form of murder; on the other, a penalty that we can consider definitely not adequate. If the penalty is not adequate - for modalities, forms, attenuators and pleas that will then be emphasized by the Undersecretary Ferri - there is a need for a measure that creates equity, because justice - as Bonaventura rightly claimed - manifests itself in the sign of silence and equity. If this number of road murders grows and if the rest of Europe, in the lead of England, moves to meet a condition that other countries - England itself, France, Spain and Germany - have lived, albeit in a lighter way than has happened in Italy, there are good reasons to do so also from us. I am proud of the fact that the Commission has largely, if not entirely, shared the report by the rapporteur, Mr Cucca, and those who followed its work. I would like to stress two aspects, in conclusion of my speech. First, in the collective imagination, this measure is considered necessary. I always look carefully at the square, but not because I have to decide on the fate and decisions that a Parliament must take. On the other hand, I have shared the reason for those who claim that, in the face of a slight penalty, greater equity must be paid; not only mothers and fathers, parents, dead people on the road, but a reason for fair justice have shouted it in the streets. Secondly and finally, with regard to measures within the text presented, we can do a more balanced job, linking it to two factors in particular. Firstly, it concerns the question of vessels, which can be expelled from that text in order to be included in a more appropriate measure, because there is one within which to introduce it, not in order to diminish its case, but in order to place it within a legal-institutional framework which is the most correct from this point of view. Thirdly, I fully agree with those who say that there must be - and there are amendments which go in this direction - a greater balance between a penalty for road murder, than those who drive a means of alcohol consumption or under the influence of drugs, and others that must be put to a high degree, but with greater correspondence in justice between cases which, in their seriousness, have a different equation of gravity. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs. I would like to thank those who supported this approach and the Senate for their position in the Commission. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u10	I call the Under-Secretary of State for Justice, Dr Ferri.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u11	Madam President, Senators, yesterday I followed the debate in the Senate very carefully and, as is often the case, this time too several constructive and proactive interventions have taken place. I very much appreciated the dialectic in this House. As a Government - said the Deputy Minister Nencini better than me - we have very much at heart this measure, which the country has been waiting for a long time, because however today we have different rules on the subject, but the road murder is not typical as an autonomous crime. This is the main factor and the most important aspect of this rule because, from circumstance, such a serious and so important crime becomes an autonomous crime. This is the strongest signal, including from the legal point of view. I must say, however, that many of the comments that emerged yesterday in the debate have already been overcome by the case law, because all the concerns that some have actually raised are in cases of case law which the case law itself has resolved. Rather, it is possible to work, by collecting various ideas, for a more effective prevention from the point of view of road safety, and also with respect to all those conducts that the Senate, and in particular the Commission Justice, has decided to include in the typing of the hypotheses to be punished. I think above all that this should lead us to make a general policy reasoning also from the preventive point of view, in making our roads safer, focusing, therefore, on the whole part that concerns the signs, the very position of the traffic lights, the signaling of the intersections, that is, all that activity to pay attention and help the driver of the car also through a more precise signposting, maybe even repeated at a distance of a few meters, allowing those who drive to be able to know that you are in the presence of a crossroads rather than a pedestrian passage and so on. Yesterday, for example, among the many speeches on this front, Senator Filippi spoke, who highlighted certain aspects on which we can work, without changing perhaps the structure of the bill, but aiming at a better organization and at the same time raising awareness among local institutions. For example, the case study, unfortunately, says that many road accidents occur in the vicinity of the pedestrian passage; therefore, instead of eliminating this hypothesis, a reflection may be to ask why and therefore to consider whether to invest in safety, in attention and also in verifying the positions in which these pedestrian passages are planned, because perhaps they could be revised and put in safer positions for the pedestrian but also for the same driver who is driving. Among other things, I have also followed the work in the Justice Commission and I must say that the drive to include these different cases always starts from cases that have occurred and therefore deserves the attention of the legislator to intervene in order to have that deterrent effect effectively. I would also like to add that with regard to the evidence and the criteria of guilt - because they are manslaughter - the same case law is strict in assessing imprudence, imprudence and negligence, so all the series of arguments that were correctly highlighted yesterday will then be assessed by the judge, such as the case of those who pass by the red light but are dazzled by another car or have the view limited by fog or is conditioned by other factors that cannot be assessed as predictable. These factors will be assessed concretely by the judge in the rigid identification of the criteria of guilt, which is not an automatic fact: it remains evidence of a subjective element different from the dole but that however, even in a manslaughter way, requires a whole series of arguments and criteria that our code already provides and that are general criteria of attribution in a subjective way for criminal offences. On this the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation and the judicial practice will require, according to the fact and the episode, a concrete assessment by the judge. Another issue will then be the causal link, so even on the proof of this connection it will be the judge to intervene and to assess whether a particular course has caused a death. The general criteria therefore obviously remain, the jurisprudence has already outlined how to define them also in concrete cases, therefore I think that the establishment of the bill has reached a point of balance and gives an effective signal in the face of a phenomenon that, however, requires, as has emerged from the premise that lies at the basis of all the interventions that took place yesterday, that action is still taken from the regulatory point of view. It is true that the rules are already in place, but these have not proved sufficient. Also the rule relating to manslaughter with specific guilt referred to in article 589, second paragraph, of the penal code for violation of the code of the road, that has been cited and of which Senator Lo Moro has spoken in his intervention yesterday, today previews that such offence is punished with the penalty of imprisonment from two to seven years, but in practice, with the balancing and the prevalence of the general mitigating circumstances, it has always ended up to apply the minimum penalty provided for in the first paragraph of the same article consisting in the imprisonment of six months. We therefore started from the minimum sentence of six months for violations of even a certain seriousness, such as those for which we wanted today to provide for the sentence of imprisonment from seven to ten years. In this way, we put order, introduce stricter and more effective penalties that will therefore have a greater deterrent effect and will require, on the one hand, greater attention, because clearly you have the awareness, with so severe penalties of the disvalue of the fact that maybe it is not perceived sometimes by those who drive (and we unfortunately know how many episodes of this type happen every day) and on the other it must induce us - and on this there is the commitment of the Government to accept also several agendas of the day, if there will be, that will go in this direction - to try, clearly together with the competent Commissions and Dicasteries, to review the preventive policy and therefore to invest in prevention, but also in road safety. As for the graduation of the penalties and the correspondence between the concrete fact and the type of penalty that the judge will then give, a point of balance also from the technical point of view can be to accept two amendments of the 5 Star Movement. Another subject that emerged yesterday and which has profiles and effects also from the legal point of view is that of the competition. Many times, in fact, in the road accident there may be the competition of another driver, of a third or of the same person who then becomes victim both in the case of murder and in that of injury. It is therefore possible to allow the judge, in the event of a contest, to graduate the sentence more. This is an issue which can be a balance in the light of yesterday's debate. I therefore think that amendments 1,123 and 1,126, tabled by Senators Buccarella and Cappelletti, can have the effect of leaving the judge the possibility of graduating the sentence in the event of a contest, that is, when the degree of guilt decreases, because another subject also competes. The government is still open to discussion, but we believe that going back to the text's layout is a mistake, precisely because in this way we reach a deterrent effect and crystallize a rule that we have long waited for, that nevertheless punishes the serious facts, that I do not remember, because it would be along the list: in some interventions you have remembered specific episodes of white deaths, of individuals, even minors, that unfortunately have left this world because of behaviors of subjects who have put themselves at the wheel without being aware of what it meant to respect the code of the road. I don't think you can go back on that. The Government is, instead, willing to express favorable opinion on the removal of the whole part that concerns the nautical one. Also on the nautical one, in fact, there can be profiles of difficulty, also from the probative point of view, regarding, for example, the speed and other aspects. Since we will soon have to discuss the delegation to revise the code of navigation, perhaps it is better to postpone to that moment all the discipline regarding the code of navigation and the nautical one, just in order not to create confusion and, also from the systematic point of view, leave the plant of the bill reserved only to the crimes that foresee, as specific fault, the violation of the rules of circulation on the road. I really invite you to move on and not go back. I am sure that with this rule important steps will also be taken in saving so many human lives and, at the same time, in graduating the type of guilt, distinguishing from case to case and verifying the competition of other subjects or many other hypotheses that can be determined. We do not go back to a plant that, in my opinion, is important.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u12	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u15	CIOFFI (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking on the order of business. After this measure, we will have to deal with the procurement code, Act 1678, and, in the list of amendments, the new amendments tabled by the rapporteurs: I would like to ask the Presidency whether it gives us two or three hours to present the sub-amendments. There are, in fact, seven new amendments compared to those originally tabled: can we set a time limit for subemmendation, since it is not fixed?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u16	If there is no objection, the deadline for submission of sub-amendments shall be 12 noon. Not making any comments, so it remains established. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the G100 agenda, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u17	Madam President, the opinion is in favour, with the usual modification of the system: it commits the Government to assess whether it is appropriate to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u18	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u19	Senator De Cristofaro, do you agree with this change in your agenda? De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u20	Having been accepted by the Government, the G100 agenda (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u21	Madam President, I have tabled a number of amendments and I will basically explain what these amendments are proposing. I am referring in particular to adding the case of driving distracted by the unauthorised use of electronic devices. As I said in general debate, this is a very dangerous habit, which is causing so many deaths and road accidents. In particular in Amendments Nos 1,100, 1,103, 1,104, 1,116, 1,120 and 1,121 I quote the introduction of this forecast. Similarly, I would like to add the example of the driver who is engaged in a competition, obviously not authorized, with other people, which is the subject of amendments 1,120 and 1,122. On the other hand, I would like to delete the passage with the red light and also the counter-hand, which is present in the text, because I think these events are very serious but punctual. They are not related to a habit, as may be the case of those who get drunk driving or those who get used to driving by checking their smartphone or sending messages. These events, on the other hand, could be linked to a single episode of distraction and such a serious sanction, such as road murder rather than road injury, seems excessive to me. I hope, in fact, that there are no people who usually pass by the red traffic light or who usually enter the highways rather than the roads. In particular, for this case, I have tabled Amendment 1,115. I am pleased that the Government is of the idea of eliminating the case history linked to nautical and this point is the object of the amendments 1.100, 1.101 and 1.118. Finally, I would like to focus on what I consider most important, from my point of view, in the field of amendment: to remove the distinction between points (b) and (c) of Articles 186 and 187 of Legislative Decree No 285 of 1992, namely the distinction between the overrun of 0.8 grams per litre or 1.5 grams per litre of alcohol. Already starting from the overcoming of 0.8 grams per litre, in fact, the psychophysical conditions of the person are so degraded that it can be defined, basically, a drunk person, who should not be driving at all. I have followed the debate in the Commission and this distinction, which was not present at certain times in the debate and which was introduced subsequently, I completely disagree. This is dealt with in a number of amendments and, in particular, in Amendment No 1,100, which I hope will be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I would like to speak so much about sets. Every time you legislate you have to determine a set in a categorical way, because you determine the categories for which it is valid and not worth a rule. The reasoning of inclusion or exclusion must be dictated by reasonable, and understandable criteria for all. So, you have to go through over-ordered sets. However, I would love you to listen to me because this is an important concept. I wonder, therefore, why only motor vehicles should be included in the text? Is the bike with assisted pedaling a motor vehicle? If a man leads a horse-drawn cart under alcohol and kills someone, is it worth less? Why don't we use terms that express categories? I can also propose an amendment to amendment 1.11, in the sense that the words'mean of transport subject to the road code' can be used. This could apply to all these categories. This is our job, and I believe that the term'mean of transport subject to the road code' is effective and beyond reasonable doubt.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u23	Madam President, Amendment 1,106 is simply intended to put before the House the possibility of even assessing an increase in the penalties already provided for. It is true that someone says that in reality a ferocious penalty is worth nothing if it is not actually applied, but we hope that the rigor, the increase in penalties actually follows a severe punishment. Amendment 1,133 deals with the aggravating circumstance provided for in Article 1. This aggravating factor relates to the case where the person responsible for the accident involving the death and the traffic homicide is on the run. The provision merely provides for an increase in the sentence, but we believe that the House should consider the possibility of an increase in the sentence from one third to half. That is, if we look at the norm, the increase in the penalty could also be one day; instead, we want the increase to be really effective in this case and therefore to go from one third to half.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u24	Madam President, we are presenting the amendments to Article 1, which is the main part of the measure; moreover, Article 2 depends on it because penalties should be proportional, so there should be a relationship between Articles 1 and 2. The Forza Italia Group has tabled several amendments which stem from the need to avoid imbalances in the general criminal system, because we cannot deal with these offences, or this by creating crime, in one way and then not be consequent on the rest. If we go to pains up to 12 years for the so-called street murder, which is still not voluntary as far as it can put all the blame, the proportion with a voluntary murder - and perhaps premeditated - would want that for any kind of voluntary murder, with all the attenuators of this world, there was basically life imprisonment or anything else. In other words, we cannot do unbalanced things because today we talk a lot about road murder. I do not know why there is much talk about road murder; every death, even those that could be avoided, is a trauma, a fact to be deeply concerned about; however, the fact that year after year the deaths of road accidents should lead to a more articulated reasoning than I have heard in the second of the three replies. It cannot be said that we have to move forward because it is so beautiful, when the whole general debate has been very rich in arguments from all the groups; therefore, to say that we have to move forward because someone has decided, looking at some polls, that we have to do this seems to me a little weak. Another point is the following: I have heard a thesis corroborated, albeit vaguely because there are no numbers on the causes; in fact, I have heard of numbers that scare us but I have not heard the numbers. Are there statistics trying to discern the causes of these about 3,000 deaths and thousands of injuries on the streets? It would be good to go further because otherwise more than statistics are impressionistic aspects. With regard to the relationship between the Italian situation and the other countries of the European Union, road accident mortality in Italy is broadly the same as the European average. This does not mean that we must do nothing and indeed the Group of Forza Italia fully agrees that action is needed. It would be nice to be able to say that action is taken so that deadly road accidents are no longer repeated, but the real world does not work like this: action is taken to prevent repeated cases such as those in which, at least according to the news we have (then the trial is not done, thanks to heaven, with the news or even with the titles), those responsible have remained in prison a few days or even have not even seen the prison after having caused accidents with obvious and very serious fault. However, we must also have the courage to say one thing: if the law in force, if the rules in force give the possibility of inflicting up to ten years in prison (this tells us the documents that are distributed in the Chamber and that it would be useful to consult) and if there are people who, after having caused accidents with serious and obvious fault, do not do the right thing, we must say that this also depends on the fact that if the magistrate between the minimum and the maximum applies the minimum in cases where the maximum or at least a penalty close to the maximum should be applied, the fault is not of the absence of a rule but of those who apply an existing rule poorly. So let us try to act with a certain balance and talk about real things, not only the impressionistic aspects of the issue, even if we are talking about a death, not only road but also elsewhere, the impression is rightly very strong. One of the imbalances contained in the bill at our examination is between injury and death when obviously the difference is not in behavior but simply in the consequences. We agree that, of course, the consequences have their importance, but that the maximum penalty, for example in the case of serious injuries, is three years with aggravating factors and that the minimum, in case of death, is seven years shows a gap that is not well understood to what is due when we have seen that in the cases introduced by the fourth paragraph there are behaviors that can have a form of guilt from the very low to the very serious even among the behaviors that are not included. I therefore hope that what has not been said in the replies will be said in the opinions, but I am rather sceptical about the possibility of improving the text by means of amendments which, by force, are not taken into account because they try to revisit the whole law or intervene on specific points. When it is the whole mechanism that creates a problem, it is difficult to intervene on the individual points. However, we hope to improve the text with the amendments that have been tabled and with the vote. I welcome the willingness, given that the whole is problematic, to extrapolate from the text the case of nautical murder. But when there will be the first bather rolled up by a delinquent who runs at completely unjustified speeds among the bathers I do not know if we will be so happy to have done so, seen in this case particularly serious cases. We therefore hope that we can improve the text with the amendments, but we have not started on the right foot. Those who have listened to the general debate also know not only the direction of the speakers but also the reasons that have been put forward by virtually everyone: pretending that this debate has not taken place and above all that no valid arguments have been put forward does not seem to me the right way to improve the text properly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u25	Mr President, as proof that there is nothing ideological in this matter but common sense, my amendments are very similar to those tabled by Senator Malan. My speech will therefore last 30 seconds because I share a large part of your last speech. I also explained yesterday in general debate why, from our point of view, we consider this legislative intervention to be unbalanced. We believe that it can harm the overall balance of the criminal law system. I remember very tense discussions in this House on other very serious issues in which many of us have reaffirmed the centrality of a sacrosanct principle of the legal order: the proportionality of penalties, a principle that expresses the legal civilization of a country. I believe that in this approach, beyond what the rapporteur said yesterday, this fundamental element remains. When we intervene exclusively, or at least with great centrality, on the penalties - working more on legislation which we believe already provides for significant penalties and triggering a mechanism for which it seems that the solution to this problem of considerable social alarm is nothing more than prison - I think that a very serious political error is made. I insist: these amendments have nothing ideological but an attempt to introduce an element of common sense and greater balance of the criminal system.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u26	Madam President, I would just like to make a brief comment. Although the original wording of amendment 1,113 contained a more specific description of speeding as the cause of tragic events, I would like to focus on another aspect which I believe has not been adequately considered. I am referring to the state of the vehicle. If there is a focus on this issue, one might think of turning the amendment into an agenda that deals specifically with the issue of the state of the vehicles. In fact, we know that a significant percentage of accidents are also linked to a state of the vehicle which, apart from the mandatory revisions provided for in the road code, is not sufficient to ensure that a vehicle, especially if accidented, returns to the road under conditions that ensure an adequate response of the vehicle to the reflexes of the driver. Given that there are other measures relating to specific issues such as the delegation on the road code but also other measures currently in the Chamber which specifically concern the repair of vehicles affected, I think it would be appropriate for the Government to commit itself to placing very precise stakes in order to have the guarantee that vehicles, especially those affected, can return to the road only after a very strict verification of the soundness of the vehicle.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u27	Madam President, I rise to explain Amendments Nos 1,114 and 1,117, but first I would like to thank and express my sincere appreciation of Mr Nencini and Mr Ferri for their replies. It is of comfort and is pleased that the meaning of my speech in general debate and the attention I have given to specific issues relating to the road code have been taken into account. And addressing particularly to the Undersecretary Ferri, however, I would add that I expected a greater consequent effort. In fact, I would have liked more to have seen that there was also a follow-up to the reflections - which I really appreciated - by means of a specific amending proposal, perhaps to be taken up by the rapporteur. This is not the case - in order to avoid repeating the concept expressed in general debate, namely the non-automism between serious infringement and the voluntary nature of the event, I propose two amendments. I realize that they are very coarse because they intervene in suppressive terms, but they are because we believe that these are better regulated and better provided for in the revision of the road code. As the Undersecretary Ferri has understood, there are some cases to be taken into consideration, both in the case of crossing an intersection with the traffic light placed on the red, because in the vast majority of cases there is no voluntaryness, or - worse still - in the case of a pedestrian, especially in urban roads with high density of traffic and double lane, where the slowing down and braking of a car does not always make the car perceive the presence of a pedestrian crossing. Many of us have run the risk of being hit as well as pedestrians or thus investing a pedestrian. I note this because the number of accidents is really important and - as Senator Malan said very well - it is probably also necessary to develop a link between cause and effect, which also allows an element of reading. There are traffic police reports, but this element is only translated as a mere statistical number. On road crossings in urban roads with a high intensity of double lane traffic we really need to ask a question of double command, of double height, on the one hand with pedestrian stripes more highlighted and on the other with pedestrian crossings called traffic lights. Sometimes the technical elements have the effect of resolving issues. Finally, I would like to make a point to the rapporteur and to my Parent Company: the amendments are gross for the reasons I have tried to represent, in accordance with the stated spirit of cooperation, if there is a negative opinion on the part of the rapporteur, I shall withdraw them. [[Applause from Senator Albano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u28	Madam President, I will present Amendments Nos 1,123 and 1,126, which we believe can make a good contribution to bringing to a reasonable conclusion every sharp aspect that has emerged in the debate that has taken place so far. The sanctioning of the so-called road homicide is undoubtedly very severe: we have edittal punishment ranging from eight to twelve years or from seven to ten years. Experience, which those who attend courtrooms know well, teaches us that in most cases of road accidents there is a causal competition in the left, i.e. a contest of guilt. Starting from the hypothesis of a 50% contest - which is the one provided for by the civil code - very often to the outcome of both civil and criminal judgments, there is a more or less unbalanced responsibility among the drivers involved in the accident. Well, with the amendments under consideration, we give the judge the opportunity to calibrate the sentence in the specific case, providing for a reduction in penalty and extending this possibility, already provided for in the legal text in Article 1, also to the first two paragraphs, or even in the case of drunk driving or under the influence of narcotic substances. If the principle is acceptable that if my fault - said with technical terms - is equal to 10 ten or 20 percent of the death event of others, it is right that the penalty provided is in some way proportionate to this participation in the causal event. This is also to recover the principle of proportionality, which Mr De Cristofaro referred to earlier. Therefore, Amendment 1,123 is intended to extend this sacrosanct criterion of reasonableness even to the currently excluded hypotheses, while Amendment 1,126 is intended to give the judge the opportunity to arrange for the reduction of punishment, which would otherwise be limited to a maximum of one third, as the penal code rule, up to half. This means that, in the event of a fatal accident caused by fault, in the face of a certainly severe sanctioning system, which provides for a minimum sentence of eight years, the judge is granted the possibility, on a case-by-case basis, to assess the circumstances in a legal and technical sense and assessed a very minority percentage in the contest to the cause of the event, to calibrate the penalty, even falling below the minimum to give a reasonable criterion. In my opinion this is a contribution that can be taken into account precisely to maintain the sanctioning system and to maintain the strict message that the legislator wants to give: either guide or drink, translated in the highest terms. This also keeps the greatest attention to those cases of violation of the rules of the road code which, according to the statistics at our disposal, are the main causes of fatal accidents. This is an illustration of the 5 Star Movement's amendments, of which we ask for your approval. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u29	Madam President, I would like once again to draw the attention of the House and the Government to the two parts of this measure. First of all, there is the case of a person who is drugged or drunk who causes fatal accidents, in which there is a possible maliciousness; this person, driving in that way and driving carelessly, causes the death or injury of people. In this regard there is no discussion of seriously punishing these facts. After all, there is all the discussion about the media is about street pirates and those who, drunk, drugged or without a license, have committed serious violations. There is nothing to say about this. Let us add, however, another case present in this provision: I am referring to anyone - the teacher who goes to work, the agent of commerce, the father or the mother who accompanies the children to school (all except those who have the driver) - gets to drive a car and incurs in the following cases: passes with the red, circulates counterhand, reverses the march in the vicinity of an intersection, a curve or bumps, or surpasses in correspondence with the continuous line. These are behaviors in which anyone can accidentally stumble. If these behaviors result in the death of a person, the rule provides for a sentence of seven to ten years in prison. There are those who already have the trauma or the misfortune to cause such an accident. Yesterday I read that, only in the last year, five people who caused accidents committed suicide because of the guilt that resulted from the fact that, being decent people without any precedent, they stumbled into such an accident. In one of these cases (i.e. if two people die in the car from the other side), it is established that the sentence is 18 years in prison. I would like to understand what happens in a totally manslaughterous case, where the person, who has no incorrect driving precedent, who is a model driver and who has never withdrawn the points of the driving licence, has perhaps taken a road in the fog in the opposite direction for distraction. This person causes an accident and is sentenced to 18 years in prison. I'm sorry, but why does he have to be in prison for 18 years? What's the ratio? What do you want to punish in these cases? Imprudence? Negligence? The possible malice? What effect does the sanction have? If we know from tomorrow that, in the event of an accident, there is the possibility of being 18 years in prison, I believe that there will be 20 million people who, whenever they put themselves driving a car for work or necessity, feel terrified. In fact, there is a greater risk of punishment than is expected for arson murder. You risk more so than if you plan something to kill a person. Perhaps, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, it is no longer possible to do so in time, but I have thought, with this amendment, of differentiating the circumstances. If I have had the misfortune of having caused an accident - alas - I will pay for the civil and criminal consequences; but there will be a difference, for example in the case of speeding, if the person who caused the accident has already been fined in the past for speeding and have removed points so it is relapsed in that behavior or not. The same applies to those who have already received fines because they have passed with red or because they have had bad driving behaviors. There will be a difference between those who in his history have already caused accidents or have been found to be infractions for these behaviors, and those who, for once in their lives, make a mistake, because of a distraction, a sleep strike or whatever might happen, theoretically risking up to 18 years in prison. I believe that public opinion has rightly asked us to intervene drastically on the pirates of the road and to stop the scandal for which people, who have caused massacres of human beings, have been unpunished. These people pay hard for what they've done with their behavior, including the case of drug addicts, drunks, etc. However, I do not think that public opinion is asking us to make a rule that, if it comes into force, anyone driving risks up to 18 years in prison if something happens to him. I once again address the Government and the rapporteur, asking them to differentiate these cases; otherwise we introduce an inappropriate rule into our system, as will be clear the first time that such a thing will happen. In this regard, I would like to make a reference to Mr D'Ascola: the guilt contest makes sense in the civil sector in establishing compensation. If one by mistake, because of the fog, takes a road against the hand, colliding with a car at 150 kilometers per hour, it is clear that there is a contest of guilt. But criminally the eighteen years are taken the same because there is no contest of guilt in the penalty; criminally the subject is attributed in full the fault that we have indicated in the law. So, if on the other side the car makes a car and there are two deaths, the person who took the road against the hand, even for only 20 meters, is 18 years in prison. This seems to me absolutely disproportionate and unmotivated, because prison should have a grievous and redemptive effect. If a person makes a mistake, he will then spend most of his life in prison, doing what? I repeat my appeal to the rapporteur. I can also withdraw my amendment, but I would ask that the Senate, if we make it in time, or the House, should remedy this situation by differentiating the two. It is true that we expect from eight to twelve years in case of drunkenness or drugs, while in case of which I am talking we expect from seven to ten years; but in both cases, if the victims are more than one, the penalty can go up to eighteen years. I wonder and ask the House to differentiate, because we must also have a sense of justice and understand that, apart from road pirates, a road accident is a tragedy both for the family that suffers a victim and for the family, whose component caused the accident. These events mark the lives of individuals and the lives of families. Justice must be fair and it must be a step-by-step attack on behaviour, depending on whether it is illegal, predictable or with any maliciousness, compared to mistakes that can happen to everyone. We can do all possible and imaginable preventions, but if one is prey to a sleep stroke and causes an accident, it is clear that we must punish him. If then the rapporteur guarantees me that, with a sentence of seven to ten years (unless more than one victim is caused), a whole series of mechanisms will go to social services and we will not end up in prison, I hope so. In fact, I can understand that, in the cases I have mentioned before and which may affect anyone, there is a conviction with the custody of social services; instead, prison seems to me to be disproportionate. I therefore call on the House to consider this point. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u30	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u31	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u32	Madam President, bearing in mind, for short, that there is always an invitation to withdraw and that, if this is not accepted, the opinion is against, I am therefore against Amendments Nos 1,100, 1,11, 1,103, 1,104, 1,106, 1,15, 1,107, 1,108, 1,109, 1,110, 1,111, 1,113 - on which, if necessary, an agenda may be proposed - 1,116, 1,117, 1,120, 1,121, 1,122, 1,124, 1,127, 1,129, 1,130 and 1,131. I call for Amendments Nos 1,105 and 1,125 to be withdrawn, otherwise the opinion is against, and 1,128, which could, however, be turned into an agenda. I am in favour of Amendments Nos 1,101, 1,102, 1,112, 1,118 and 1,119 - which, however, would be absorbed if Amendment Nos 1,101 - 1,123, 1,126, 1,132 and 1,133 were adopted, identical to the previous one. I refer to Amendments Nos 1,114 and 1,115, which are identical to the previous one.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u33	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u34	Even with regard to the amendments on which the rapporteur referred to the House, 1.14 and 1.15? FERRI, State Secretary for Justice. Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u37	GATTI (PD). Madam President, I would like to ask you for information on Amendment No 1.117, on which the rapporteur's opinion is opposed and the Government's opinion is in line with it: has it been withdrawn? PRESIDENT. - The debate is As the rapporteur said, the request is to withdraw it, otherwise the opinion is against it. GATTI (PD). So it has not yet been withdrawn: in that case I make it mine, otherwise I add my signature. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u40	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Madam President, I would like to subscribe to Amendments Nos 1,107, 1,108 and 1,111, first signed by De Cristofaro, 1,126, first signed by Cappelletti and 1,125 by Senator Giovanardi. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u43	FALANGA (CRI). Madam President, I would like to be able to endorse Amendment No 1,102, first signed by Mr Lumia, for a very simple reason: not because we do not believe... We are no longer in the stage of illustration, so just the declaration of wanting to sign it. FALANGA (CRI). I apologise, but simply because the House is examining the reform of the navigation code, so there is a risk of duplication. That's just the reason, and not because we don't think it's necessary to sanction anyone who commits a murder in the water.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u44	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senator Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Bignami. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u47	LUMIA (PD). Madam President, without any misunderstanding, the Democratic Party considers the killings at sea as serious as those which are consumed on the road; therefore, no indulgence, no attitude of submission, of course, compared to that productive sector which we consider important, strategic, decisive, which must be re-valued in relation to previous penalties. But this is not the way to do it. Those who consume accidents or injuries to the sea, through any type of boat, must be censored as those who do so on the road. We believe, however, that this measure should not be contained in this measure because we are intervening on the road code, whereas a technicality specifies the means, the type of speed, the distances from the sea to be respected. All things that need to be embedded in the navigation code, that at this moment colleagues, after being approved by the Senate, is in question in the House; therefore, that is the main way to follow to make a correct intervention and able to get the same effect that we are producing on the road code. That is why we have tabled a deleterious amendment, which is a sort of deletion that has this kind of explanatory statement and no other.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u48	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,101, tabled by Senator Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,102 must be understood as being absorbed by the previous vote. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,103, tabled by Senator Orellana, up to the words "allowed to cause the death of a person." The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 1,103 and Amendment 1,104 are therefore excluded. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,105, tabled by Senator Marino Luigi, up to the words "the following": The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,105 and amendments 1,106, 1, 15 and 1, 107 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,108, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,109, tabled by Senator Zeller and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.110, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,111 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 1,112, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). On Amendment 1,113, a proposal has been made by the Government for a possible change of agenda: do you accept, Senator Mussini?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u49	Madam President, I welcome the call for the amendment to be changed to the agenda only with regard to the part of the conditions of the constraint, seeking a wording that can be useful for the Government and also with regard to the adequacy of the terms.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u50	Having been accepted by the Government, agenda G1.113 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,114, which is identical to Amendment 1,115.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u51	I would ask that they be set aside for verification.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u52	I have the provision. I would ask the Government and the rapporteur whether Amendment No 1,116 is also linked to these two identical amendments and should therefore be put aside.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u53	Amendment 1,116 is a replacement for the text by which a different case is introduced, namely that of driving distracted by the use of electronic devices. We can also put it aside and vote on it later, but it has also been explained earlier that the opinion on this proposal is against because the proof would be diabolical and impossible to provide, so it is a totally unnecessary amendment. If you consider that it should be put aside and voted after the other two amendments 1,114 and 1,115 have been voted on, that is fine, but this amendment in fact, in its present form, has nothing to do with the content of amendments 1,114 and 1,115.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u54	The reflection that I proposed to you, rapporteur, is that, as Senator Orellana's amendment 1,115 states exactly, like amendment 1,114: "In paragraph 1, para. "Art. In the fourth paragraph of Amendment No 589-a, delete number 2," and this is reflected in Amendment No 1,116, we thought that the latter amendment was also linked to the two previous ones. It is not and we take note of it. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,116, tabled by Senator Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.117.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u57	FILIPPI (PD). Madam President, as a result of the provision of amendment 1,114, I would ask the rapporteur, if possible, to make provision for amendment 1,117 as well, because the reasons for this, apart from this, are based on a single reasoning. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the request for provision made by Senator Filippi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u58	Madam President, there is no foreclosure of the possible provision of Amendment No 1,117, but I would like to point out that these are completely different cases, which have nothing to do with each other. There is no relation between the number 2 and the number 3 of Article 589-a, fourth paragraph: they contain references to different cases, so the amendment could also be voted on. However, there is no foreclosure for any provision.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u59	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u60	I therefore propose the provision of Amendment No 1.117. Amendments 1,118 and 1,119 must be considered to be absorbed by the adoption of amendment 1,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u63	FALANGA (CRI). Madam President, I would like to point out to the rapporteur and to the Government that the adoption of the first amendment, which essentially excludes the hypothesis of nautical murder, compromises the whole set-up of the law, which must be corrected in various parts. I would suggest, then, a moment of suspension in order to allow the rapporteur and the government to settle all the text on the basis of the deletion of the part relating to the nautical murder that we have operated. Even in the title of certain articles, in fact, we read "Introduction of the crime of street murder and nautical murder": this too must be corrected. It is a purely technical and corrective operation of the title of the law, but it must be done, because we cannot introduce into our legal system a rule that is titled "Introduction of the crime of street and nautical murder" and then the nautical murder is not there. Since this is a purely technical arrangement, in order to approve a measure that does not make operators and experts laugh, I would suggest to the rapporteur and the Government - and I ask you, Madam President - to suspend the work of this House for half an hour, so that the two parties who were first responsible for this measure can make the corrections that the text deserves. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u64	We've already changed the title, Senator Falanga.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u65	However, I would ask the rapporteur to comment on this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u66	Madam President, as you have just pointed out, Amendment 1,101 already says: 'So replace the title'. Where appropriate, such corrections will be made in coordination. Clearly, because the reason for the amendment is clear and the work has already been done. We know that there will eventually have to be only coordination work and it seems to me that we can continue peacefully. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,120. CUCCA, rapporteur. I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. CUCCA, rapporteur. Madam President, I would like to make a point of order. I have already explained why it is not possible to accept this amendment on electronic devices. I would like to point out - because it might seem a contradiction - that the part relating to sports competitions is already regulated by the road code, Articles 9-a and 9-b. Article 9-a, inter alia, begins with the words "Save that the fact constitutes more serious crime." Automatically, therefore, in the event that there were cases already covered by this law, the legislation that we are going to approve applies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u67	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,120, tabled by Senator Orellana, up to the words (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1,120 and amendment 1,121 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,122, tabled by Senator Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,123, tabled by Senators Buccarella and Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,124 is therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.125.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u70	Mr Albertini (AP-NCD-UDC) Madam President, on behalf of Senator Giovanardi, who tabled Amendment No 1,125, I would ask that it be put aside. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government if they agree to this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u71	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u72	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u73	Amendment 1,125 is therefore set aside. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,126, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,127 tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On amendment 1,128, the rapporteur and the representative of the Government called for the withdrawal and proposed that it be turned into an agenda. I ask the presenter, Senator Di Biagio, if he accepts this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u74	Yes, Madam President, I welcome the invitation of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government. I therefore withdraw amendment 1,128 and turn it into agenda G1.128.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u75	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.128 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,129.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u78	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I support Amendments Nos 1,129, 1,130 and 1,131 by Senator Marino Luigi, and at the same time I am announcing their withdrawal.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u79	Amendments 1,129, 1,130 and 1,131 are therefore withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,132, tabled by the rapporteur, identical to Amendment 1,133, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Colleagues, we cannot proceed to the vote on Article 1, because some of the amendments relating to it have been tabled. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u80	Madam President, the subject of road murder also applies to road injuries. However, given the result of voting on the amendments to Article 1 which, for many of my proposals, have been unsuccessful, I must now consider which amendments to Article 2 to withdraw. It would not make sense, even if very unlikely, to approve some cases only for road injuries, when we did not approve them in the road murder. My only comment is this. I will send the list of amendments I have withdrawn to the Presidency as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u81	Madam President, I would just like to point out that the amendments proposed by us to Article 2 reflect the same reasons as the amendments proposed to Article 1. Firstly, an increase in penalties; secondly, with amendment 2,122, and in the same way as with regard to the burden of flight, here too we propose that the penalty be increased not in the general sense, but from one third to half.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u82	Madam President, I would like to draw the House's attention to Amendments Nos 2,117 and 2,120, which, in the case of serious and serious personal injuries, also reproduce in this case, as in the case of murder, the mitigating assumptions in the case of guilt, so as to give the judge the opportunity to quantify the penalty; in this case, if the causal contribution to the injury is reduced compared to 50%, the possibility of reducing the penalty and extending this benefit also in the case of those who are driving in the drunken state or under the effect of narcotic substances.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u83	Madam President, I would just like to point out that Amendment 2.28 seeks to strengthen the provisions provided for with the ancillary penalty. As a result of the withdrawal of the licence, a rehabilitation course for driving is introduced, which should in fact allow access to a new licence again.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u84	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u85	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u86	Madam President, I am in favour of Amendments 2.103, 2.104, 2.109, 2.117, 2.120, 2.121, 2.122, 2.127, 2.132 (the latter would be absorbed by the possible adoption of Senator Orellana's amendment 2.103), 2.136, 2.139 (which would also be absorbed if Amendment 2.103) and 2.140 were adopted. I call on you to withdraw and, if necessary, to turn amendment 2.10 into an agenda, otherwise the opinion is against it, and to withdraw amendment 2.26. The opinion opposed the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u87	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u90	FALANGA (CRI). Mr President, I have just pointed out to the rapporteur that the adoption of Senator Orellana's amendment 1,101 would have meant that more attention should be paid to the adjustment of the whole measure. Now I would like to point out to the distracted rapporteur, who also expresses a favourable opinion on his own amendments, which are quite unusual, that if Senator Caliendo's amendment 2,101 were ever adopted, with the aim of replacing Article 2 with the following: 'Introduction of the crime of personal road and nautical injuries', we would be faced with the dystonia that I had anticipated. Then, perhaps, it would be appropriate to be careful and to expunge from this amendment which we shall be voting on at a moment's notice, the word 'nautical' because it is absorbed by the amendment adopted. That is why I said to be careful: if we were to adopt this amendment we would have the hypothesis that I had anticipated, namely that although we did not foresee the case of the nautical crime we would find ourselves with expressions that would make reference to it. I would therefore suggest to the rapporteur, at least in the context of the correction, that his opinion should be amended, considering that the part in which this amendment refers to nautical murder is absorbed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you for your attention, Senator Falanga.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u93	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Mr President, I would ask you to subscribe to the amendments 2,117 and 2,120 by Senators Cappelletti and Buccarella and to Senator Giovanardi's amendment 2,119.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u96	Orellana (Mist). Mr President, I withdraw amendments 2.105, 2.106, 2.114, 2.115 and 2.116.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u97	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100, tabled by Senator Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.101, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.102, tabled by Senator Bignami. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.103, tabled by Senator Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,104 must be understood as being absorbed by the previous vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u100	RANUCCI (PD). Madam President, I rise to make an explanation of vote on this amending proposal, although it has just been declared absorbed. As already approved in Article 1, I am in favour of the removal of the nautical crime from the measure. However, I would like to make a recommendation to the Government. Since the nautical code, which will also contain the nautical crime, is currently under discussion in the House, I ask the Government to ensure that it is approved as soon as possible. We are now at the gates of summer and the drunken driving of watercrafts, jet skis and dinghys is extremely dangerous. My request to the Government is to ensure that the House can approve the provision quickly so that this kind of crime can also be included in the nautical code. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u101	Amendments 2,105 and 2,106 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.107, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.108, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.109, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Mussini, do you accept the call for the withdrawal of Amendment 2.10? MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, I shall withdraw Amendment 2.10 because the G1.113 agenda, which was previously adopted, is such that both amendments can be supported.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u104	SCIBONA (M5S). Madam President, we had set the deadline for 12 noon in order to submend with reference to draft law No 1678. However, because we are committed to voting, we cannot do so. I would therefore ask you to move this term forward or give us a quarter of an hour in order to be able to subemend. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The request of a quarter of an hour, from 12 to 12.15 p.m., is accepted. SCIBONA (M5S). But with a suspension, Madam President, otherwise we will not succeed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u105	Senator Scibona, we set the deadline at the beginning of the session when the request was made. There were two hours and you knew we were going to be here. Let us continue, also because you have known the terms of the matter since yesterday morning. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11 tabled by Senator Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.12 tabled by Senator Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.13 tabled by Senator Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.114, 2.115 and 2.116 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,117.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u108	CUCCA, rapporteur. Madam President, I am speaking only on a matter of fairness to my fellow Members. I voted against amendment 2.118 but, in fact, if the previous amendment 2.117 is adopted, it will be absorbed. Objectively, this was my mistake in the assessment of Amendment 2,18. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u109	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.117, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.118 should be considered as being absorbed by the previous vote. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.19, tabled by Senators Giovanardi and Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.20, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.21, tabled by the rapporteur, which is identical to Amendment 2.122, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.23 tabled by Senator Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,124, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,125, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.26 calls for withdrawal. Do the presenters intend to withdraw it? LUMIA (PD). We withdraw him, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 2,127 must be understood to be absorbed by the adoption of amendment 2,13. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.28 tabled by Senators Galimberti and Gibiino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.29, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,130, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.31.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u112	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, Amendment 2.31, tabled by the Group of the North Legacy, proposes a measure which is commonly referred to as a life sentence. The text proposed by the Commission already provides for a rather heavy administrative penalty in the case of so-called road murder. However, we do not think that the possibility of getting the driver's license back after fifteen, twenty or thirty years should be considered, because we believe that those who commit such a serious crime, such as taking the life of a person, as a result of driving in a drunken state or under the influence of drugs, should no longer have the driver's license for the whole of their lives. That is why we want to put this amendment before the House, even though we are aware that the issue has already been raised several times by the North Leg Group and that the Commission has already foreseen a consequent increase in administrative sanctions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u113	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.31 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,132 must be understood as being absorbed by the adoption of amendment 2,13. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,133 tabled by Senator Mussini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,134, tabled by Senator Zeller and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.35 tabled by Senator Zeller and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2,136 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.137 is therefore precluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,138 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2,139 must be understood to be absorbed by the adoption of amendment 2,13. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.40 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). (at 11.20 a.m.) We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u114	The opinion on Amendment 3,100 is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u115	The opinion was in accordance with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u116	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,100, tabled by Senator Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views. I would remind you that Amendments 5,100 and 5,101 must be considered to be absorbed by the adoption of Amendment 1,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u117	The opinion on amendment 51.02 is obviously in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u118	The opinion was in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u119	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5102. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5102 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 5 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u120	Mr President, I believe that we all agree that before the tragic event comes, it would be more appropriate to take all possible and imaginable measures in order to carry out appropriate prevention activities and to increase the deterrent power of the measures themselves. Now, surely there are two aspects that are strongly conditioning and that can really begin to trigger a virtuous mechanism, such as to induce those who set themselves to drive to be much more attentive to their behavior and habits. In my amendments, I propose that the possibility of a driving licence be narrower, if it has been demonstrated that it is not able to manage it in the correct and respectful manner of others, or to intervene on the fund for the prevention of accidents at night, which was set up in 2007 for prevention purposes. This fund, in fact, after its establishment, was then activated with a certain inertia and a certain laziness, through the implementing regulations. Today it is not very clear which functions it has. It is not clear what are the contents of the quarterly reports that should theoretically be transmitted and it is not even clear whether and how these reports are actually drawn up, which should be submitted to the Chambers. It turns out to me that only the Ministry of Education has been concerned with providing an appropriate report. In addition, we do not even have a precise understanding of the result of the prevention implemented with this fund, which should be increased not only with some of the proceeds of the sanctions applied to road accidents at night, but also with an ad hoc figure. In short, we have no confidence in what this fund has been able to achieve. I would also be willing to turn Amendment 6.0.2 into an agenda, which concerns the increase in the quota allocated to the Night Accident Prevention Fund, provided, however, that this agenda provides for a genuine commitment by the Government to increase the quality of control over this fund and to verify the accuracy of the presentation of the reports that those involved in its use should have submitted. It should also be clear that this fund, because for prevention, can also serve education in schools. However, because road education in schools is not enough, it certainly takes something more. And then I ask that the fund be used also to implement the controls and above all the research done. We have heard at the hearing subjects who are researching the analyses, i.e. the effectiveness and ability of the analyses to be more selective and to identify in a specific way the substances taken by those who have been driving in an altered state. The fund should, therefore, also be used to increase research in this respect and, in addition, the percentage allocated to it should be increased. I would point out that this fund is allocated 20% not of the total penalty, but only of the additional share that comes from the fact that it has not paid the penalty within the time limits, and also in relation to accidents that only occur at night, from 22 to 7 in the morning. So you also understand that, if we really want to commit ourselves to prevention, we must be sure of what is being done and of the resources that are being allocated and, therefore, I call for an increase in the resources themselves and that the quality of the money allocated to the fund in question has also improved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u121	Mr President, I withdraw my first-signed amendments from the PD Group, which are 6,104 and 6,106. The combined arrangement that the rapporteur has identified as an ancillary penalty achieves, in fact, the objective of making it rigorous and adapted to the challenge that we launch to our country: you have to drive well and with responsibility and have a very correct attitude when driving, and the driver's license is the figure of this behavior.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u122	Mr President, as recommended by the rapporteur, I withdraw amendment 6.27 and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u123	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u124	I am against Amendments 6,100, 6,101, 6,200, 6,103, 6.0.1, 6.0.3 and 6.0,101. I am in favour of amendment 6.0.100 and the G6.27 agenda. I call for the withdrawal of amendments 6,109 and 6.0.2 by proposing their transformation into agendas, on which the opinion would be in favour: with reference to the second, in particular, I must say that Senator Mussini has raised a very serious problem, and we must thank her for that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u125	I would ask those present whether they accept the request made by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u126	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Yes, Mr. President. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u127	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's view, also with regard to agendas. As a government, however, we reiterate here the call for the withdrawal of amendments 6,109 and 6.0.2 of which, however, they are in favour of converting into agendas, because they deal with issues which - in our view - can be taken up at a later stage. The issue of the fund against night crime is also important, as it will help to make better use of the resources that enter it and to work on prevention, another aspect that must go hand in hand with the bill under consideration. As far as the Government's views on the amendments aimed at introducing a life sentence are concerned, I would just like to point out how, in fact, we have come to this. With the mechanism created, there is in fact a suspension from five to ten years that the prefect can immediately dispose of as soon as the accident occurred and then there is the possibility to affect from fifteen to thirty years on the period after the withdrawal of the licence. Today, in fact, it could happen that the license, once revoked, was actually returned, being this penalty structured as an accessory. However, we noticed that the introduction of the life sentence of the licence as an accessory penalty, in addition to presenting constitutional profiles, would have had a vain effect: with rehabilitation, in fact, any criminal effect would have been extinguished and the life sentence of the licence would have ceased, which would have been returned. In this way, instead, we intervene on the time period, marking the fact that those who commit this type of crime cannot get their license back after a period ranging from fifteen to thirty years - which is certainly a considerable and important period - that affects not rehabilitation but subjective conditions in order to get their license back once rehabilitated. Therefore, it becomes an effective measure that cannot be thwarted either by rehabilitation or by other types of termination of the sentence.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u128	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,100, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u131	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, with this amendment we propose a deadline of not more than three years but five years since the licence was removed (this beyond the suspension) so that we can take another one. We are at the same time opposed, also for reasons of constitutionality, underlined by the rapporteur, to the permanent suspension of the licence, because we believe that we must always respect the provisions of the Constitution, that is, the penalty must aim at rehabilitation, or at least we must give a second chance. We would, however, like this second possibility to be given a couple of years later, because here we refer to cases where there has been a violation of Articles 186, 186- bis and 187 of the Road Code. That is why we shall be voting in favour of amendment 6,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u132	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6,101, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,200, tabled by Senator Mussini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 6102 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.103 tabled by Senator Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 6,104 to 6,109 have been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G6.27 and G6.109 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.0.2 has been changed to agenda G6.0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u135	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, in addition to amendment 6.0.2 I withdraw amendment 6.0.1 by proposing an agenda covering the road accident prevention fund.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u136	I would point out to Senator Mussini the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution on amendments 6.0.2, 6.0.1 and 6.0.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u137	I also withdraw amendment 6.0.3. The agenda for G6.0.2 is to be understood as a transformation of amendment 6.0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u138	Amendments 6.0.2, 6.0.1 and 6.0.3 have therefore been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G6.0.2 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 6.0.100, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u141	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like it to appear that in the last vote my vote would have been in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u142	The Presidency takes note of this. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 6.0.101 is impervious. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments tabled to Article 1 which were previously laid down. These are, in particular, identical amendments 1,114 and 1,115 and Amendments 1,117 and 1,125, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u143	The rapporteur maintains the same indications as he had previously given.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u144	I invite you to renew them, as the Presidency has changed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u145	CUCCA, rapporteur. With regard to amendment 1,114, which is identical to amendment 1,115, I refer to the House, while with regard to amendments 1,117 and 1,125, the opinion remains opposed. I would like to point out that amendments relating to Article 2 of the same content as amendments 1,114 and 1,115 dealing with road injuries, while we are now dealing with road murder, have been rejected. I would like to point out that there is a fact of coordination and fairness, although obviously there is no preclusive effect, because we are talking about a different subject. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you now object or confirm that you are going back to the Chamber? CUCCA, rapporteur. I confirm that I am going back to the House, but I will personally vote against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u146	Mr President, since it has made clear on the opinions on the proposed amendments, on amendment 1,114, identical to amendment 1,115, the Government is against it, while on the other amendments the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u147	The Government, therefore, is also opposed to the amendments for which the rapporteur refers to the House. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,114, which is identical to Amendment 1,115. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u150	Orellana (Mist). Mr President, taking advantage of the availability of the rapporteur, who has returned to this House, I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 1,115, despite the difficulty of coordinating the text between Article 1 and Article 2. The example of the passage with the red traffic light - an act of mere and simple distraction and not usual behavior, as can be that of those who get to drive after drinking or after having taken drugs or those who usually drive at very high speed - in my opinion is a much more timely case. Predicting a sentence like the one for the street murder, which we can get up to 12 years old, seems excessive. We have also talked about a fair proportionality of penalties and I therefore believe that this is the time to eliminate these situations. In addition to the passage with the red traffic light, there is the case of the counterhand guide: I live in a northern area, in Pavia, famous for the fog, where I believe that unfortunately in many situations of poor visibility these events happen too. If, unfortunately, you hit a pedestrian, who may not be clearly visible, or more easily a cyclist, also without an adequate signal, you could cause unpleasant situations, such as causing him death. For this reason, therefore, I agree with the rapporteur's call to try to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u153	CUCCA, rapporteur. Mr President, I am only speaking for clarification. This case is not punished up to twelve years but with a lower sentence, from seven to ten years. The penalty, therefore, is not what Senator Orellana wrongly indicated, but is expressly lower because it is a different case. Senator Orellana, then, spoke of a simple distraction. This is not the case and on this point I must recall the exhaustive intervention in reply of the Undersecretary Ferri, who clarified the problem of the assessment of guilt and the degree of guilt. Therefore, I consider the reasoning that has been objectively wrong. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I understand that he still keeps his return to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u156	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, on the whole measure I maintain an attitude of reflection, but on this particular point we must be aware that, crossing the road with the red light on a vehicle, it means shooting with a loaded gun in a square, where there may be no one or there may be many people. [[Senator Falanga's comments.]] When we are driving, therefore, we must be aware that the most critical point is what happens before us and we cannot be occupied with anything else. Although I consider the pains particularly heavy - and from this point of view, perhaps, there may be an attitude of greater reflection - I note the need to severely sanction those who cross with the red light, whatever the justification, and therefore for a decrease of attention, for an inadequate visibility or for a distraction to drive. They must know that their behaviour, if it leads to the death of people, recalls a particularly serious sanctioning responsibility. I therefore support the Government from this point of view.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u159	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I fully share Senator Buemi's views on the fact that we should not go through the red light. But here we are talking about crossing the road with the red traffic light for distraction. It is true that even distraction must not exist and, in fact, those who cross with a red light, thus causing the death of a person, are certainly punished. And he is punished not only for violating the traffic code, but also for manslaughter. I would point out, however, that the same reasoning on the gravity of the matter should be carried out for entering a road without respecting the stop sign, which is the identical situation of the crossing with red traffic lights, in every respect: instead of there being the traffic light, since you are on a clearly less important and busy road than the other, there is a stop sign. In this case, however, road murder is not envisaged. Therefore, in order to be consistent with the fact that the failure to respect the priority and the stop sign does not fall within the circumstances in which road murder occurs, it is logical to vote in favour of this amendment, on which the rapporteur will return to the Chamber, except then to make a personal assessment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u162	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like once again to draw the attention of my fellow Members to what we are doing. We have started from alcohol, drugs, pirates on the road, from the very serious attitudes that indignant public opinion. And then we voted for an amendment of the 5 Star Movement, according to which, even if the driver is soaked in drunkenness and there is guilt contest, his sentence is reduced. So, in one of the school cases, if the road pirate causes a massacre but there is a co-responsibility of those on the other side, he is reduced the penalty, precisely with that amendment approved by the House. Instead, for the person who has always behaved very well in life, has no precedent and is very cautious, but once he has had a sleep stroke, we predict that, if a car arrives from the other direction and he kills two people, he will have to serve up to eighteen years in prison. Something's wrong with me, and I'll write it down to the government. Amendment 1,114 perhaps deletes a case, while I would maintain the causes: the red light, the counter-hand process, the line continues. On the other hand, my amendment 1,125 provides for only three reasons: the first concerns drunks, drug addicts and street pirates. And we basically agree on that. The second case concerns those who are relapsed in having a dangerous driving style and have already suffered a cut of the points, having exceeded the speed limits or for having passed with the red traffic light or for having committed a series of infringements. And if these infringements repeat them again and, passing through the red light, causes an accident, this person must know that, having already received sanctions and warnings, he can receive from seven to ten years and, in specific cases, eighteen years in prison. The third case will affect about 22 million Italian drivers since this law comes into force. Is it possible to claim that a sleep blow, a distraction, the sun in the eyes or any other event, can be assessed by the magistrates in a range of penalties ranging from seven to ten years and even to eighteen years in prison? Is it possible that a mere driver who walks the streets must be terrified, if an accident occurs to him, of going to jail for 18 years? But doesn't it seem to you that these three cases (the drunk pirate, who has a history of road code violations and the person who happens to cause an accident in life) are different? I repeat to the Government that we must graduate in such a way as to approve a measure acceptable to all Italians who wish to go to jail the street pirates, and not a father, a mother, the trade agent or the boy who in life can make a mistake, as we have all done. And anyone in this House knows that, except - as I have already said - he has a driver, because he is quiet and knows that he will never commit infringements. So I renew my prayer here now. We want to write such a rule that if a person suffers a misfortune, we do not punish him with years in prison, while we severely punish the street pirates. And we severely punish even those who caused an accident and have already had precedents, it has already been fined, they have taken away the points of his license, it is recurrent, he has had warnings and he falls for it again. That is what we strongly call for in this House. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u165	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Mr President, I rise to join in some of the speeches and, last but not least, Mr Giovanardi's, and in the same amendment as Senator Orellana, which the rapporteur, despite having the negative influence of Mr Lumia, has managed to say that he is going back to the Chamber. I do not understand the government, to which I would like to say out loud that prevention is important. Mr. Undersecretary, in the first Republic, a minister performed miracles on prevention without changing the penal code and without being a legalist. It was the minister of 110 kilometers per hour (then we arrived at 130 kilometers per hour), a limit that saved thousands of human lives and did not give a year in prison to those who, even if they were too fast, caused damage, because at the time we had the ability to understand that we had to work on prevention and not repression. I subscribe to Mr De Cristofaro's speech which, yesterday, invited him not to legislate with his belly and not to hear the square, nor to those presenters of the talk shows that, perhaps prey to cocaine or alcohol (the test should also be done to them), tell their viewers that the street pirates must be flogged, shot and frustrated. We're also talking about distraction. Yesterday Mr Cucca, with a certain demagogic speed, asked: who gives the four-year-old son back to that woman to whom he was torn. He won't get it back after he gives life to the guy who put him in the car. That woman has lost her son, there is nothing to do and neither can Jesus Christ give it back to her. You have to go to prevention, but this is a word you don't know and you don't have a chance to know, because your mind of justiceists is such that you can't understand the damage you're doing. That woman might have another child who, if she were responsible for a car accident, would be torn from her for 18 years and, therefore, would have lost two children. In the middle of the street there are every day 20 million Italians and they are all at risk. Therefore, we must do prevention, as is the case in Europe. Europe is asking us not to take these measures, but to prevent them, as they do in other states, or as they have done with the introduction of the obligation to wear the helmet, which has practically eliminated the fracture of the atlas and the cervical spine, and it is a preventive measure. We need to get our patrols on the streets to do the booze test, stop people. We must ensure that it is certain that they will be stopped and checked. There is a need for certainty of control. There must be no accident, no tragedy, to commit 18 years in prison. Senator De Cristofaro is therefore right when he says that one day we approve of empty prison measures and another day we approve of regulations to fill them. I'm gonna make a joke at this point. When a person causes an accident, maybe if he takes a gun and shoots the victim he'll get half the penalty of what he'd have for a violation of the highway code. I therefore vote in favour and ask the Government to review its position, precisely on the basis of that history that I have done in relation to what was done in the first Republic, even though during the De Mita Government, which certainly does not have my trust or that of the socialists. It would be enough, then, to hear what the current governor of Campania De Luca says about De Mita to understand what we are talking about. And yet, in that government there was someone far-sighted, who focused everything on prevention and not repression. And given the existence of biological kinship, I invite the Undersecretary to approach that great minister politically as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u166	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u168	Rossi Luciano (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, in sharing Mr Barani's remarks, which I believe deserve great attention from all of us, I would ask you to subscribe to Senator Orellana's amendments 1,115 and to Senator Giovanardi's 1,125.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u171	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would like to say that I voted in favour of Amendment No 1,115, and I would add that I did not follow the rapporteur's and the representative of the Government's explanations of vote on a number of articles, because it seems to me that we have been a little emotional. I also pointed out in the competent Commission how much we all want to introduce the crime of road murder, because it is right to hit the street pirates and those who drive in drunkenness or after using drugs. We cannot, however, be dragged by facts that have rightly affected our emotions, because there are also those who, for reasons of work, are unfortunately forced to drive every day. There are also those who are forced, because they do not have the driver, to drive when they are tired, because they have to respect commitments or because they have to go home. There are also those who guide perhaps anxiously, because they have the dying spouse or because they have some problem that distracts them, they play hard, from the attention to the road, or because we are human beings and, like all human beings, we can also make mistakes. I ask you, therefore, to keep apart the real pirates of the road and the occasions when the fault is serious from those who are in circumstances that are unfortunately due to distraction or human errors. We can't ruin a 19-year-old boy's life because he may have been distracted or because a circumstance leads him to pass a red light without Noticing. Unfortunately it can happen, and it happens especially to those who do not have the driver and to those who, unfortunately, are forced to drive for work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u174	RUTA (PD). Mr President, I would like to make a short and preliminary point. In the preamble, I would like to say that the written right, the rule, can and must play an educational role, and the fact that we all call for a highly prudential and highly attentive driving course, is an honour to Parliament, which imposes and chooses such a rule. Having said that, the other consideration - and I ask the rapporteur to listen to this point - is about positive law, which must be in line with common sense and not in a manner of saying, but because this is required by the fundamental principles of our Constitutional Charter. And I'm not just talking about feeling common, I'm talking about common sense. I would like to propose to the House and the rapporteur the following two examples. A few days ago - and I also say this to the Government that expressed the opposite view - the incident in the streets of Rome, in the center, which caused a massacre of people, was caused by people who did not know if they were in an altered state due to drinks or other substances, but who held a course that considered the risk of overwhelming human lives. In that case, everyone thinks that, even if those responsible had not drunk, their conduct must be punished in the most severe way in the legal order. Obviously, in fact, it is not even manslaughter anymore, it is something more. But the conduct of those who consider risking and risking others is perceived by the public as a course that must be punished. Instead, let's make the hypothesis of a decent person - an uncensored, quiet person, recognized by all as good - who goes out of the house and how every day goes to shop at the market, then gets back in the car with the expense, returns home, the sun on the windshield prevents him from seeing a red light (he doesn't see it by chance, by distraction) and then invests and kills a person; for that same person is an endless tragedy: not only who dies, even the person who invested sees changing his life. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] If I asked the Italians if they thought they should punish that person in the same way as the other, the common sense of the Italians would lead them to say no. In fact, Italians know how to distinguish common sense from populist, useless and harmful things, because it is okay to treat equal situations in the same way, but different situations must be treated differently, for a sense of justice. These cases must be specified. I say this to the rapporteur, to the group leaders and to the government: it is necessary to specify, remove a case that we do not want to be introduced. The misfortune, that is to say the accidental accident, unwanted, cannot be punished as the behavior of those who consider dangerous conduct. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u177	FALANGA (CRI). Mr President, I would simply like to translate, from an exquisitely technical point of view, the content of the speech by my previous colleague and perhaps also by Senators Giovanardi and Barani. You must realize that we are doing an extremely delicate operation. From the current legal system of our code, which provides for street murder as a hypothesis of manslaughter, we are approaching, also by virtue of the effective sanctioning system that we have imagined, to voluntary murder. Perhaps it is right to do this operation, which, moreover, is not a novelty within our criminal system, but to be careful, because it is necessary to have a minimum of conscious participation in the determination of the situation from which the event of death comes; that must be and this is the delicate operation. Therefore, if a person takes drugs, drugs or is in such a condition, having taken large quantities of alcohol, that he no longer has the lucidity necessary to drive a car, at that time he has the conscious participation of the subject in creating the situation from which then the death event comes. In this sense, therefore, the approach from manslaughter to arson seems justified and - I repeat - is not even unknown to our current criminal system (I remember Article 586 of the Criminal Code). If, however, as was said before, in a certainly more effective way, the accident takes place without this necessary and conscious participation in determining the situation, we cannot impose such a high penalty. That is why the red light, which, moreover - my colleagues must allow me - in Campania represents a sort of forced suggestion, a [[optional...(Ilarity),]] It seems to me that we cannot compare the conduct of those who pass through the red light, even in that hypothesis of dazzling light advanced by the colleague, to those who drive after taking drugs or alcohol in large quantities and therefore cannot be sanctioned in the same way. In this sense and for this verse, our reasonableness must intervene. I would therefore ask the Undersecretary, after the rapporteur has returned to the House on this point, to reflect and consider that there cannot be the same serious penalty for two such different cases in the conscious participation and in the element of the will by the staff member. As a group, of course, we will be voting in favour of this amendment, for the reasons which I have very modestly explained to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u180	BENCINI (Mixed). Mr President, I too shall be voting in favour of this amendment and I would like to reinforce the view that there is a need to provide for a possible minor penalty if a person is in a position to pass by a red light or to enter a single-way street, accidentally, in a state of 'consciousness', without being altered by alcohol or other substances. In fact, it can happen to pass with the red traffic light or to access the counterhand in a one-way street or on the highway, for a reason that is defined as disassociate consciousness. One could, for example, be overwhelmed, because loaded with thoughts and problems, perhaps because one is thinking - as in the example made earlier - of the wife who is ill or otherwise: in these cases there is therefore a temporary disassociation of the subject, who does not realize the action he performs. As proof of the existence of such cases, I remember the cases of the abandonment of minors by car: unfortunately it has happened on several occasions that children have been left in the car, even for hours, and that this has led to their death. In some cases the parents have not been convicted, as they have been shown to disassociate the subject, which has caused the abandonment of the child. Unfortunately, the same can happen when we are driving. I therefore believe that the penalty must be lower. I also remind Senator Falanga, who said that in Campania we pass with the red light, that someone will pass with the red light, in Campania, but that fortunately there are many people who respect the traffic lights and stop, because if the traffic light is red, we must respect it in all cases. [[Applause from Senator Albano]] Finally, I would like to endorse Amendment No 1,115, which was first signed by Senator Orellana.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u181	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u183	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I should like to make a very brief comment. The adoption or rejection of this amendment significantly changes the structure of this measure: it is not simply an amendment incorporating an amendment, but it changes what had been described as the initial scope of the legislation. Consequently, the adoption or not of this amendment may change the attitude in the final vote on the draft law. A path had begun with the intention of limiting those who could be considered serial attitudes - let's say - on which it would have been necessary to work not only in the direction of greater repression, in order to also give satisfaction to the families of the victims, but also, and in my opinion above all, trying to eliminate these behaviors, long before arriving at a tragic event. Putting together, on the other hand, behaviors that have such a different nature, as has been widely illustrated technically and with practical examples of the real daily life already by my colleagues before, really changes the meaning of this measure, just as we have seen it start in the Commission. Therefore, I believe that we need the utmost attention and I am voting in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u186	CUCCA, rapporteur. Mr President, following the outcome of the debate that has been held, we would need a ten-minute suspension of work, a quarter-hour delay, in order to consider the possibility of finding a solution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u187	I am suspending the sitting for fifteen minutes so that we can resume with a solution. (The sitting was suspended at 12.15 p.m. and resumed at 12.36 p.m.) Colleagues, let's resume our work. I see that the reformulation is still defining itself in its details. Senator Cucca, we have taken up the work in theory; will you intervene?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u188	Mr President, there is a request for reformulation of the proposed amendments. With regard to the identical amendments 1,114 and 1,115, we simply ask that the word 'grave' be added after the words 'cause of fault'. If the rewording were accepted, the opinion would be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u189	Senator, the amendments in question are deletions, so it is good for us to have the text of the reformulation in order to acquire it in the acts; we need to know what we are considering. , rapporteur. You are right, Mr President, then I would like to ask you for a few more minutes of suspension so that the text can be sent. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I therefore suspend the sitting, also in order to distribute a copy of the text to the Groups, given the delicacy of the matter. (The sitting was suspended at 12.38 p.m. and resumed at 12.41 p.m.) Let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u190	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u192	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I reasonably believe that, with one interruption after another, nothing can be achieved. It would be much better for the rapporteur to relate to the political forces and to meet in this House directly at the beginning of the afternoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u193	The text of the reformulation has been received by the Presidency, but we still have to distribute it to the Groups. It therefore seems reasonable, given the social importance of the point we are dealing with, namely road safety and the behaviour of users, and since the sitting would end in any case in a quarter of an hour's time, the Conference of Leaders being set at 13 o'clock, Senator Candiani's proposal to resume the examination of the amendments and to make explanations of vote at the beginning of the afternoon sitting. If the Groups agree - and I do not think so - I think it is more reasonable to act in this way, now suspending work a quarter of an hour before the scheduled time, thus allowing everyone to see the text reworded and be able to pronounce on it. I therefore refer you to the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u194	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u196	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I find myself making the usual request for questions and questions which do not have an answer. Moreover, I must also note that the difficulties are increasing the more time passes, because they have also taken away my microphone and I am forced to do the contortions in order to be able to speak: this makes me even more uncomfortable an already unacceptable condition, such as the one that has been going on for two years now, in which no answer is given to questions. In my calendarization I had anticipated that I would intervene once a week: with the passing of time I will spend doing the daily intervention. Here - alas - there is still a complete lack of response to these questions and questions. I do not know if there are any other forms of protest, besides that of continuing unnecessarily on this road, once again noticing the total disinterest of the Government. It is a disinterest that brings not only the unacceptable, but also the shame of finding ourselves, despite everything, always repeating the same things and asking us if it still makes sense to intervene at the end of the session to point out the fact that we do not respond. Mr President, I would really urge you to urge the Government and the Ministers to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u197	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u199	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, there is a great deal of talk about illegal affairs related to the management of the emergency of immigrants and the resources which, it seems, more than being diverted to welfare services, feed clientele and ill-doing. It escapes, however, a little 'to all that behind this there is also a lightness of the State in not having understood well what the privatization of the Italian Red Cross would have meant. The current situation is confirming that the failure of the public presence of the Red Cross in sensitive sectors such as the management of reception centres lends its support to the degeneration of the business of immigrants by private individuals, because it remains discovered an area of action previously within the competence of the Red Cross and currently at the mercy of private subjects, each, of course, with its own desires. An example of this is a Roman campsite used as a reception centre, whose management was entrusted by the prefecture to a cooperative. The latter, not having the skills and the tools, I understand that it involved, without legitimacy, both volunteers of the Red Cross specialized in the field, that therefore at the moment work at a tight pace, and many employees of the provincial committee of Rome of the Red Cross. Therefore, we are faced with the paradox of a Red Cross subcontracted by a private society to which the State recognizes funds. I really think it is appropriate to reflect with the Government on what is happening - which I have denounced even in parliamentary acts - also because, as always, the most needy citizens pay for this miscalculation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-462.ana.u200	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.47 p.m.
