ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. Question 3-01201, on the international adoptions of pet animals, will be carried out first. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the phenomenon described in this parliamentary question is very well known to the animal protection unit of the Ministry of Health. In particular, the handling for the adoption of stray dogs and cats housed in Italian kennels to countries of the European Union, such as Germany, Austria, Sweden, or non-Community, such as Switzerland, has long been the subject of careful attention by the Ministry of Health. In 2009, also following requests from the regional authorities regarding the need for greater guarantees in international trusts, a coordination table was established, in which representatives of the regions and autonomous provinces most involved, as well as the main animal protection associations, participated, in order to identify a procedure, possibly standardised, aimed at ensuring the traceability of animals and their full protection. Regulatory developments at European Union level (Regulation of 12 June 2013, No 576, replacing, as from 29 December 2014, Regulation of 26 May 2003, No 998), together with the application of this procedure, will certainly allow for greater control over movements. It is evident that the procedure recalled has already been applied, for the parts of competence, by some local administrations that have asked the Ministry of Health for specific technical support; I refer to the Umbria Region, to a good experience of the Lazio Region, to some health companies of the Marche Region and also to others of the Sardinia Region. As regards the control measures taken to verify the effective implementation of the ministerial circulars in this field (circular of 12 August 1993, n. 33; circular of 14 May 2001, n. 5) and the regulatory provisions cited, the Ministry of Health has been monitoring the entire territory since 2010 through the operational unit for the protection of animals. This monitoring also covers, of course, the guidelines of 29 May 2014, relating to the handling and registration in the register of animals of affection, pursuant to the State-Regions Agreement 24 January 2013, which, while entering into application at the same time as their publication, require transposition by the Regions in order to establish the related sanctions. With reference to the control and verification systems used, it is represented that in the aforementioned operating procedure it is previewed that the Regions transmit to the Ministry of Health a report of the adoptions carried out through associations of animal protection, in order to finally know the real extent of the phenomenon. During the meeting on 1 December 2014, the working group on animal welfare, with the Autonomous Regions and Provinces, assessed an operational procedure that will be subject to a careful examination in the next few days and will be the subject of further study in the next meetings, which should lead to the definition of national guidelines that should standardise the verification and reporting procedure. Finally, it is stressed that this Ministry has always supported, even within the Community fora, the absolute importance of the introduction of a single European system for the identification and registration of animals of affection. It is well known that the obligation to register animals of affection at Community level is not common in all countries and it is an activity that the Italian Government and the Ministry of Health have long been trying to promote at Community level. In fact, only the creation of a European database will allow the traceability of animals adopted beyond borders, thus ensuring the welfare of animals.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u7	FUCKSIA (M5S). Dear Undersecretary De Filippo, thank you for the usual availability, responsibility and also for the promptness of the answers (other questions are much more awaited). His words comfort me and we hope, therefore, to verify that what is provided for is realized and that the deficiencies that have had and will have the Regions from the economic point of view do not penalise this sector. We know very well that so many veterinarians are destined for food safety and other tasks and, therefore, animals are always penalised. I think it is important to keep the attention high and, therefore, to provide and not to give up because our country has not yet reached a sufficient level of protection and protection of animals. I am not just referring to the forms of control and traceability of national and international adoptions - certainly the registry also has shortcomings and it is therefore difficult to identify the civil and criminal responsible for animal welfare - but also to the problems related to the discipline of veterinary responsibility, which is often approximate, so much so as to allow impunity and many cases of malasanity that leap daily to the honors of the news, not to mention the criminal provisions on animal rights. The penalties imposed and the crimes against animals, in my opinion, are too low to have an effective deterrent effect and I hope that we will come to recognize dignity to these sentient beings. I would like to highlight two articles of the penal code: Article 624 of the penal code (theft) and Article 544-a of the penal code (the killing of animals). For the theft the penal code provides from six months to three years, for the killing of an animal from three to eighteen months. Basically, you risk a more serious penalty if you steal than if you kill a sentient being. Precisely in the area of the prosecution of crimes against animals I hope that with the legislative decrees of the delegation law n. 67 of 2014 on the decriminalization and non-criminality of the crimes do not take further steps back by introducing for the crimes of ill-treatment of the animals even the non-criminality of the deed. The President-in-Office of the Council and the Minister for Justice Orlando have given assurances on this point in recent days and I trust in them. I expect that in the draft legislative decrees that will be presented in the competent Commissions not only will not proceed with the decriminalization of the crimes against the feeling of the animals, but will not even allow the safe conduct of non-criminality for the responsible. Moreover, I take the opportunity to announce that, as a 5 Star Movement, we have deposited a bill that aims to standardize and raise throughout the national territory the standards of protection and guarantee of all animals, both pet animals and those bred for other purposes, and that contains a delegation to the Government for the drafting of a single text that represents a code of animal rights, so that all the matter is reordered and disciplined. Our desire is to finally crystallize animal rights and human obligations towards them, and the achievement of this objective is an important step forward. I trust, Mr Undersecretary, that you have always shown your willingness and responsibility. In this regard, they have invited us this year to acquire rhythm: you, Undersecretary De Filippo, are usually already quite on the move and used to running, so I hope that these objectives will be achieved, which are of common sense and easy, also because, as Gandhi said several years ago, the civilization of a people is measured by the way it treats animals.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u8	Question 3-00113 on the airport development of eastern Sicily follows. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the inauguration of the new Government, a discussion table has been opened with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport with the regions on the problems of the airport sector. Following the comparison and collecting the requests that from time to time the Regions have presented, in particular those relative to an acknowledgment of the national interest for the prevalence of airport infrastructures present on their territories, has defined itself a National Plan of the airports, aimed at the economic-financial recovery of the field and, on the other hand, also to its throw again. The key points are: to create a vision of system and development of the national transport network as a whole, in order to make it sustainable and competitive; to overcome the obstacle of conflict between airports located at minimal distances, often within the same territorial basin, that it determines situations of poor development for all the ports that are part of it; to encourage the establishment of networks or airport systems that can, as such, be the key to overcome situations of inefficiency; to promote the accessibility of the territories characterized by deficiencies of other modes of transport; to focus investments in terms of both airport capacity and accessibility to airports; to rationalise the expenditure and services in the perspective of their efficiency; to realize an industrial design likely to update periodically of the planning policies, in this case related to the airport system. The airport network of national interest has been identified in accordance with the criteria laid down by the legislation of the sector and in particular with reference to Article 698 of the Navigation Code. The aim of this identification was to ensure the development of the sector in line with the Union's guidelines, to respond to the mobility needs expressed by the user basins, as well as to cover the territory at the points of service as homogeneous as possible, in implementation of the principle of territorial cohesion. In this, it has continued satisfying the requirements connected to the specificity of a particular geographic conformation, that of our Country, and to the structural deficiencies of the other modes of transport, in particular railway. In this context, all airports of national interest were identified, starting from the supraregional areas identified in the NUTS scheme: North-West, North-East, Central, South and Islands are the five landmarks identified. There are a total of ten basins: North-West, North-East, Centre-North, Central-Italy, Campania, Mediterranean-Adriatic, Calabria, Eastern Sicily, western Sicily and, finally, Sardinia. For each of these basins, airports of national interest have been identified and, among them, only one airport, in that sector, of particular strategic importance. For the identification of the airports of particular strategic importance were taken into account, first, the airports included in the core European network, and among them, first of all, the intercontinental gates of Milan Malpensa, Venice and Rome Fiumicino. Therefore, where, as in the North-West basin, several airports have been included within the European network, it has been identified as the airport of particular strategic importance of the basin that plays the role of intercontinental gate, in this case Milan Malpensa. Only in the case in which the identified basin has not been found to insist any airport included in the European network, has been identified as airport of particular strategic importance that inserted in the comprehensive network with greater traffic data: respectively Bari for the Mediterranean-Adriatic basin, Lamezia for the Calabrian basin and Catania for the eastern Sicily basin. Catania has therefore seen recognized in the new plan the fundamental role it plays in the basin of eastern Sicily. As is known, the Catania port of call was in 2013 the sixth national port of call for passenger movement, with 6,307,000 total passengers, and is the first port of call as well as Sicilian, of the entire Italian Mezzogiorno. The increase of traffic on the port of call, the infrastructural potenziamento and accessibility, as well as the recent opening of the airport of Comiso as complementary port of call of Catania, are configured like ulterior factors of potentiality of development for the airport in the optical of the eventual constitution of an integrated airport system that serve the eastern Sicily and the area of the Strait. In view of the increases of traffic previewed in the area have been inserted in the plan important infrastructural participations for the railway connections, metropolitans and for the realization of a new track, factors all that will contribute to consolidate and to ulteriorly develop the role of the airport Vincenzo Bellini.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u12	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr Deputy Minister, from the website www.assaeroporti.com - to confirm from what you said - it turns out that the airport of Catania in 2014 has recorded a number of 3,500 movements and of approximately 440,000 passengers, increase of 9 percent regarding the data recorded the year precedence. On the other hand, if you want to compare the annual progressive, it is always learned from the site that the movements recorded between January and November 2014 were equal to 56,000, an increase of 11 percent compared to 2013, while the passengers increased from almost 6 million in 2013 to almost 7 million in 2014. In fact, the annual progress of the January-November 2014 period shows an increase of 14.52 percent. These data suggest that the airport site is not lacking in flows from and to Catania, indeed, it represents an active and above all strategic platform, given the geographical position of the island, of which it is the second most populous Province. Just a couple of years ago we invested in Comiso airport for national routes, but to date it operates only ten flights a day. We therefore think that obviously this investment did not meet a real need of the territory. We have also invested in the renovation of Fontanarossa airport, making it an international airport. Well, today we give shares of Alitalia's flag carrier to Etihad, which has no intention of investing in national routes, so we ask ourselves: is it not contradictory to invest in infrastructure when instead of increasing flights, they are abolished? In the last year, Alitalia has abolished most of the domestic routes from Catania except Rome, Milan Linate, Naples and Pisa. All other routes have progressively ended up in the hands of low cost carriers, which provide services according to their transport policies. I would like to draw your attention to these vectors. Are you aware, Mr Vice-Minister, that Ryanair does not board, for example, stretchers and wheelchairs? This means that a passenger who needs such a service will have to fly only with Alitalia and the costs imposed by those who operate under a monopoly. To this it must be added that flights with stopovers involve considerably longer waiting times, with serious discomfort for those who choose the plane to travel more easily and, above all, faster than the other means. In addition to the inconveniences caused by the cancellation of the routes, the problem of the cost of the sold flights, which generates a form of speculation, is becoming increasingly pressing in Catania. Air transport today is a private service, but supported by the community's money in the form of an integration fund, mobility and so on. The ultimate aim should be to satisfy the needs of citizens for free movement, not only for reasons of pleasure - so a few more hours of waiting for the stopover and the change of aircraft does nothing - but above all for work, study and health needs, which require the need to fly in different time slots and at sustainable costs. In addition to what was said in the premise, flying from Sicily, but also from Sardinia, it has become an arduous undertaking, since more and more often there are very long waiting lists, despite the aircraft flying then in the end empty means. In this regard, I have asked operators in the sector to explain the waiting lists and I have been told that this is because the policy of the airlines is to sell the lowest number of tickets at the highest price, instead of trying to fill the flights by selling tickets at cheaper rates. You understand very well that in a country like Italy, where air transport has become indispensable, it is paradoxical that we have to pay less to go from Rome to New York than from Catania to Venice. This is a paradox, but this is happening today. Italy needs strategic carriers for the economy in general, but especially for the islands it is necessary to make air transport usable, economical and expendable, considering that surface transport is almost non-existent. Then there are flights like those operated by Blue Air, a low cost Romanian company, that connect Catania with Turin, that today are sold by the carrier Meridiana through a mechanism defined code sharing, to the triple of the value established by the same carrier for direct sales. [[Recalls of the President]] Excuse me, ma'am, but don't I have five minutes? I don't think they've passed yet.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u13	Trust us, we have a dedicated system. However, I give you a few more moments to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u14	BERTOROTTA (M5S). I'm about to finish. Frankly, I believe that the policy adopted by this Government on transport does not correspond to what a good father of a family would do and suggests that there are other hidden mechanisms that lead to making choices other than those of common sense. We are in favour of all the investments that will be made on Catania and we hope that these will take place in a transparent and supervised manner by the authorities responsible for the control, in order to seriously protect that fundamental strategic asset that the Etna airport constitutes for the economic, tourist and territorial development of all Sicily. However, before the investments, including European ones, are implemented, we believe that Catania airport should be well used for service to citizens and not for speculation by airlines that, as mentioned above, benefit from contributions and do not pay taxes in our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u15	Following is the question 3-01427 on the continuation of the "Home care premium" project. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u16	The parliamentary act under consideration calls for an intervention by the Government aimed at ensuring the continuation of the "Home care premium" project, an initiative promoted by the INPS in favour of members of the unitary management of credit and social benefits and retired users of the management of public employees in support of non-self-sufficient persons and their family members. With the project "Home care premium" for the year 2012 have been identified by the INPS as partners for the realization of the interventions 180 territorial social areas. Following the publication of the public notice for the activation of the "Home care premium" project for 2014, additional territorial areas have been identified that have been added to those already affiliated. The signing of the new agreements related to the "Home care premium" 2014 was not followed by the publication of a notice for potential beneficiaries, given the due verification of the necessary financial coverage. In fact, although the resources committed derive from the fund established by Law No 662 of 1996 (Article 1, paragraph 245), the INPS remains bound to the strict compliance with the rules on public accounting and, in particular, to the limits of expenditure constituted by the appropriations entered in the budget. In this regard, I would like to point out that the issue raised in this parliamentary act has, however, been the subject of careful reflection by the Institute, which decided to postpone the deadline for the "Home care premium" project 2012 which - I remember - should have been interrupted on 30 November 2014. The postponement of the expiry of the project was set at 28 February 2015, time strictly necessary to wait for the formalisation of the budgetary adjustment containing the illustrated variation and to start the consequent compliances. I would also point out that the central credit and welfare management of the INPS has announced, as announced in Message No 8929 of 19 November 2014, a video conference with all the regional directorates of the Institute, during which it was formally announced that the "Home care premium" project 2014 will be launched with effect from 1 March 2015, ensuring continuity of performance. During the video conference, the new programme agreement to be signed with the 213 territorial areas that have joined the new project was also presented. As a result of the above-mentioned videoconferencing, the regional directorates informed in detail the areas described above, providing them with the new programme agreement to be signed by 30 December 2014. The short period of time to reach the conclusion of the agreements (18 December 2014 to 31 December 2014) was due solely to the need to commit, by 31 December 2014, the amounts made available with the budgetary adjustment of the INPS. Therefore, synthesizing: until 28 February 2015 will be assisted all the current beneficiaries of the project "Home care premium" 2012 (about 18,000 people); from 1 March 2015 onwards they will be able to benefit from the project "Home care premium" 2014 about 36,000 people, referred to 393 territorial social areas. Finally, I note that no more than half of the current month of January, the INPS will publish the call for potential beneficiaries of the "Home care premium" project 2014.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u19	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Cassano for his reply to a question which stems from an urgent need due to the concern of so many Italian citizens who have benefited in recent years from the project carried out by the INPS and financed, as the Undersecretary mentioned earlier, by a special fund. This fund turns out to have a budget surplus of about 600 million euros, compared with about 120 million that instead have been used for the last call (the one referred to) relating to the project "Home care premium" 2012, still in force, in the absence in reality of a new ban that everyone is waiting for. The urgency and concern not only concern the more than 18,000 current beneficiaries but the enormous need that we have, with a very large target of about 5 million families and potentially of over 14 million people in Italy. I was talking about a fund that is completely self-financed because, as we know, it is absolutely not on the state budget. It is fully self-financed by deductions, which are additional, from civil servants: those currently operating (working) and those retired. It is a project that has been able to mean, in recent years, a real excellence of the public administration and that has also been taken for example by many international studies as excellence of an integrated model of welfare. We know how much, in these years of very long crisis, the cuts have weighed on the expansive capacity of our welfare in terms of attention to the weakest social groups, but also of promotion towards many. I am thinking, for example, of many new generations who have found in this form of supplementary welfare linked to "Home care premium" also the possibility of using modules for the right to study, not only of excellence, but also linked to lower middle schools, as well as higher. It is, therefore, a very wide range of interventions, not only related to assistance for self-sufficient people, which has certainly meant a great deal in recent years. Of course, I am pleased with the assurances that you, on behalf of the Government, are giving this House, but the new agreements actually put at risk what have so far been the potential of this project. In fact, unlike what was anticipated in the budgets of the Institute of 2012 and 2013 (which provided for an extension and strengthening of this project), there seems to be the risk, in reality, of a reduction of the beneficiaries: I am referring to an interruption, starting from the new agreement, of the continuity of assistance and also to a reduction from 16 to 12 months to 9 months of what is the duration of assistance, in addition to the abolition of the register of voluntary associations. For this reason, I would ask the Government to monitor further so that, as soon as possible, not only the extension of the relationship with the social territorial areas will take place, but also a new project of "Home care premium" will be banned for the coming years. I will say more: it really needs to be avoided, as the journalistic agency "Social Editor" wrote on 31 December last (which, as we know, is the point of reference for social integration and welfare policies in our country), that it comes incomprehensiblely to finish and stop an experiment that was really working with important results. In the coming months this experiment must be able to continue in such a way that it no longer represents an exceptionality but rather a continuous point for our social and health integration system.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u20	Following is the question 3-01226 on the auction sale of a farmhouse in the area of the Parco dell'Appia Antica. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u21	Mr President, I am referring to the question by which Senator Montevecchi asks whether the Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism knows the situation of an area, included in the Parco dell'Appia Antica, concerned by ancient pre-existences and subject to the provisions of archaeological protection, which was put on sale by auction and which could be purchased and returned to the community. In this regard, I would like to point out that almost all the properties of the Appia Antica are affected by the presence, more or less evident, known and consistent, of archaeological structures and goods. With far-sightedness and an overall view of the whole area of Appia, the general plan of 1965 had allocated to public park all its 2,500 hectares, on the assumption that only with public acquisition could it be ensured the preservation and full use of the immense cultural heritage of the Appia Antica. The competent Special Superintendence for the Archaeological Heritage of Rome, in recent years, when possible, has increased the public heritage, acquiring some properties that, after excavations and restorations, have been regularly opened to the public and properly valued. The current availability of the Superintendence does not allow, however, to cope with acquisitions that involve such a large initial disbursement and the forecast of a subsequent equal economic commitment for the following years, to ensure the restoration of the areas affected by the abuses, for the restoration works and for the works of adaptation functional to the opening to the public of the area. As far as specific competence is concerned, the Special Superintendence exercises a broad protection action and has already expressed its negative opinion on the requests for building permits, also asking for the restoration of the status of the places, ensuring appropriate supervision in this respect against any future owners. Therefore, while the protection action can be ensured by the constant activity of the Superintendence, in order to be able to dispose of further acquisitions of property and property currently in private property it would be necessary to allocate extraordinary funds specifically intended for the creation of a park of archaeological value. I punctualize this concept because, as is well known, the current district (referred to in the Law of the Lazio Region no. 66 of November 10, 1988) constitutes the Regional Park of the Appia Antica created and managed also according to the aims of protecting and valorizing the monuments and archaeological, artistic and historical complexes existing in it but, as a regional park, it is aimed specifically to preserve and rebuild the natural environment and to enhance the hydrogeological, botanical and fauna resources for cultural, educational and scientific purposes and to prepare and manage social equipment aimed at cultural and recreational purposes compatible with the characteristics of the park. It should be noted, however, that the property in question has a smaller size than the hectare.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u24	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, I will make a few words, because - alas - it is my turn to see and take note, once again, after almost two years of parliamentary term, that the Presidents of the Council follow each other and alternate, but politics remains the same, that is to say, to continue not to invest in our culture and in our artistic heritage. We are missing the opportunity to acquire a good, not only to return to the community and to open up to its free use, but if we want to reason in the utilitarian and monetositic terms that today, alas, govern all of us in the daily choices and even the choices of this Executive, we might think that we are missing an opportunity of investment and therefore we are giving up a possible generator of wealth. If you look at culture as oil - which you reject, because we should be linked to our cultural heritage regardless of whether it generates monetary wealth, since it generates spiritual wealth in all of us, which is already in itself an indispensable value, for what concerns me - and if you think in utilitarian terms, we are missing the opportunity to make an investment. Excuse me Undersecretary, you know that by now I am linked to you by a tradition, which unites us almost from the beginning of the legislature, since they always send you to answer my questions and I see that in 2015 tradition has consolidated. So there is nothing personal about him, but allow me: 5 million euros for the acquisition do not seem an insurmountable and huge amount if we appear to the many millions of euros that we waste. So - I repeat - the figure is not insurmountable: let us say that we do not want to find these EUR 5 million. The figure is what it is, but it lacks the will to invest. What do I say? I can only hope that this good will end up in the hands of an enlightened private individual, a patron who, moved by a Renaissance spirit, opens its use to the community and replaces the State in the protection and guarantee of Article 9 of our Constitution. Because now - alas - under these conditions for the protection and guarantee of our Constitution we can only entrust ourselves to private enlightened citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u25	Question 3 00031 on fuel distribution legislation follows. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, regarding the request of the questioning honourable Members regarding the initiatives that the Ministry of Economic Development intends to adopt in order to favour, through the definition of new contractual typologies, the processes of flexibleization of the market and the increase of competition in the field of the distribution of fuels for automotive, it would like to point out, first, that the legislation in this matter - Decree-Law 24 January 2012, n. 1, converted, with modifications, in Law 24 March 2012, n. 27 - has already provided that these different types of contract, especially for the custody and supply of distribution facilities, should be negotiated, through agreements signed between the organizations representing the holders of the most representative authorization or concession, by 31 August 2012. Only in the event that such agreements were not concluded within that period could each of the parties request the definition of such contractual types to the same MISE, which would have been required to provide for the next 90 days. Therefore, after this deadline, an intervention by the Ministry in the definition of such forms is provided not autonomously, but at the request of one of the parties and therefore surrogate: this request to date has not been expressly formulated by any of the organizations in the field. Nevertheless, the Ministry has repeatedly met the parties to try to facilitate the search for shared solutions. The same administration has already sent to the parties some drafts of new types of contract, relating to the contracts of rent of company, commission and franchise. A first agreement was reached on October 8, 2013 between the Federations of the managers (FAIB Confesercenti, FIGISC-ANISA Confcommercio and FEGGIICA Cisl) and the associations of the owners (Ace oil and Large Networks) on a scheme of contract of commission, on which the Authority guarantee of the competition and of the market had evidenced of the criticalities, then exceeded with the definitive draft of the contract on 15 April 2014. Regarding the request for information on which is the state of application of the legislation that guarantees the gratuitousness, both for the buyer and for the seller, of the transactions of less than 100 euros settled with payment cards at the distribution plants of fuels, it is evident that such gratuitousness was introduced by article 34, paragraph 7, of the law n. 183 of 2011 (law of stability 2012), beginning from 1 January 2012. This provision was proposed by the Ministry of Economic Development, after consulting the ABI, at the request of the federations of the operators of the most representative fuel distribution plants at national level (always the same) for reasons of safety of the staff involved in the plants, as it reduced the circulation of cash. Banking fees are the responsibility of the operator of the fuel distribution plant, falling within the operating costs. In fact, the reaction of the banking system to this provision was strongly opposed, based on the alleged impossibility of imposing a service at zero cost by law. With the first decrees law of the Monti Government it was tried several times to suspend the gratuitousness of the transactions for the distribution network of fuels, that then was confirmed with a mechanism of sterilization so called time (introduced by article 12, paragraph 10, of the law n. 214 of 2012, save Italy, then modified by article 27 of the law n. 27 of 2012, grow Italy). The survival in time of the free payment of cards for transactions of less than 100 euros in the fuel distribution sector was linked to the issuing of a MEF-MISE decree defining new rules to reduce commission expenses. That being said, with the publication of Decree No 51 of 14 February 2014 in the Official Journal of 31 March 2014 has, therefore, ceased the gratuitousness of the transactions and has opened a delicate phase in that, by 29 July 2014, the banks would have had to adapt, giving precise indications on the structure of the costs that they subtend to the commissions, to differentiate between debit cards, credit cards and micropayement (less than 30 euros). It is therefore necessary to reach the definition of commissions, as indicated by the questioner, that effectively promote the use of electronic payment instruments, also in the light of the principles of transparency and progressive reduction of commissions applied to merchants, as stated in the aforementioned decree, and in view of the further initiatives taken by the Government in the matter of the use of electronic money also in this particular market sector; it is noted in this regard that the decree of the Ministry of Economic Development of 24 January 2014 established the obligation for traders of any commercial activity to accept payments with debit cards for amounts exceeding 30 euros from 30 June last year. The above objective is the basis of the tables of comparison established at the Ministry of Economic Development, to which the representatives of the Ministry of Economy and the Bank of Italy participated, as well as the ABI and the managers of the circuits and payment systems, as a result of which the initiatives of transparency and promotion present on the market and at institutional level have been made known. The use of electronic money is in fact increasingly important for the safety of operators and equipment and it is necessary to try to reduce as much as possible the use of cash, still present in very high quantities at fuel distribution plants and subject to increasingly frequent attacks by crime, also considering that the traceability of electronic payments inhibits illegal behaviour which, among other things, causes a distortion of the market. My speed in the exhibition is due to the complexity of the answer, as there are many things to say about the complex questions for which I thank the Senator. On the same line has also intervened the Ministry of the inside, with the vice minister Bubbico, in a meeting held in 2014 with the Ministry of the economic development, the Federations of the managers (Faib, Fegica, Fijisc), the Associations of the owners (Union Petrolifera, Asso Petrol, Consorzio Grandi Reti, Federdistribution), as well as the representations of the banking world, in a comparison on the possible solutions to be adopted in order to prevent and fight the more frequent phenomena of crime that affect the points of sale of fuels, from time to the attention of the public institutions at local level (I want to remember the Lombardy Region and the prefecture of Lecce). The need to promote the dissemination of electronic means of payment in order to minimise the use of cash in automotive fuel purchases at distribution plants was also highlighted. With regard to the level of bank fees, however, it should be noted, again, that the Competition and Market Authority (AGCM) in November 2014 took note of the commitments formally entered into by the ATM Consortium, at the end of an investigation initiated on 19 February 2014 to ascertain the possible existence of anti-competitive profiles, in violation of Article 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In particular, the ATM Consortium, to which 594 entities currently belong, including banks, parent companies of banking groups and the most important national non-banks active in the provision of payment services, following the aforementioned commitments formally entered into before the Antitrust, will reduce the commission for each transaction (Bill Payment) from €0.10 to €0.07. In addition, for the future, this value will be anchored in an analysis of the costs incurred by operators and will be reduced as a result of possible system-wide efficiencies. It should be noted, moreover, that on 12 November 2014 a protest was launched by the operators of the fuel distribution plants (called "No Card Day") promoted jointly by the three federations of the operators and consisting of the non-acceptance throughout the day of credit cards or ATMs for payments, in order to raise public awareness of the high costs of electronic transactions that absorb the margin of management and then reflect on the price of fuel at the pump. Also following this protest, with an agenda accepted to the House on 30 November 2014, the Government undertook to consider the possibility of promoting any appropriate initiative to restore the freeness of transactions of less than 100 euros settled with payment cards at the fuel distribution plants, ensuring that this relief is not thwarted by the imposition of exorbitant rental charges for POS devices; i.e. to set a ceiling on fees for debit and credit card payments at these facilities, so as not to exceed 150 per cent of the maximum laid down in the proposal for a European Regulation No 550 of 2013 for interchange fees, thus 0.3% of the transaction for debit cards and 0.45 per cent of the transaction for credit cards. In particular, this proposal for a European Regulation on Interbank Fees over time will ensure a reduction in these fees (so-called interchange fees) applied by the circuits and, consequently, a further reduction in fees charged to merchants (so-called merchant fees), thereby promoting the use of such payment instruments. As regards the information on what initiatives are being taken to establish the assessment criteria necessary to allow fuel operators to redeem their plants, it should be noted that at the moment this assessment has not been started, as there has not been a substantial interest on the part of the operators in the sector. With regard to what initiatives are intended to be taken to enforce the regulatory provisions of Article 28 (8) (b) of Decree-Law No 98 of 2011, as amended by Article 17 (4) (a) of Decree-Law No 1 of 2012, concerning the granting of authorisation for the resale of tobacco, the new provisions issued by the competent administration (decree of the Ministry of Economy and Finance No 38 of 2013 This issue has not yet been resolved because, on the one hand, Antitrust expressed itself in 2014 by accepting restrictions on the opening of new points of sale, justified in application of the principle of public health, on the other hand, the Council of State in an opinion on an extraordinary appeal to the President of the Republic (at the end of August 2014) issued a different opinion, stating that the minimum distances between two points of sale of tobacco must relate to similar types of business, while tobacco sales at fuel distribution plants are intended for a customer other than ordinary. Therefore, in the light of the above-mentioned opinion, the Decree of the Ministry of Economy and Finance No. 38 of 2013, which limits the opening of tobacco sales at the service stations by setting a minimum distance of 600 meters, would manifest profiles of illegality. However, the TAR ruled differently on the legality of the decree de quo. (The relevant judgments of the TAR Lazio of 2014 are nos. 5354, 5705, 5015, 5022). Finally, it should be noted that there has been action, always in order to increase competition and the flexibility of the market, giving implementation also to other provisions of the cited article 17 of Decree-Law No. 1 of 2012. These include the decrees of the Minister for Economic Development of 17 January 2013 laying down provisions to make the prices displayed at the fuel distribution plants clearer and more comprehensible to users and of 29 April 2013 to provide for the refinancing of new destinations of the Fund for the restructuring of the fuel network.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u29	FAVERO (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General very much for the detailed answer she has given, with a great deal of detail, which is very comprehensive. I'll try to give you a couple of suggestions, too. First of all, the use of electronic money and cards is very important for the safety of operators, but also for plant customers. Crime attacks, as we know, have been heavy and repeated over time. The blood toll was very high. I'm a gas station kid and I've always been very worried about Dad coming home. Some questions remain open, but the effort and synergistic work done by this Government, in particular by the Ministry for Economic Development and the Ministry of the Interior, which have really worked on the various issues raised, for example also on the use of electronic money, is very remarkable. As we know, the increased use of this form of payment also determines the inhibition of illegality and the traceability of all the various transactions, even - if we want - for personal accounting. We know that the fuel distribution sector is strategic for our country, which entrusts it precisely to mobility and road transport. Therefore, every choice has a direct impact on the quality of life of motorists and on the competitiveness of the various companies. The issue of the sale of tobacco remains open, and I hope in a forthcoming definition. There is one thing that needs to be emphasized at the moment. More unique than rare, which must be acknowledged by the Government, is the fact that the increase in excise duties on fuels has led to a significant saving for households and a stimulus to consumption. In fact, there has been a double breath of relief for motorists and operators themselves, who want a recovery in oil consumption that could be stimulated both by the decline in the international price of oil, of which we are enjoying, and by a reduced tax pressure. In fact, we have returned to the levels of March 2014. The reduction of 0.24 cents per litre is indeed a more unique than rare fact and is of considerable importance both from the point of view of consumer expectations and in the context of mitigating the fiscal tightening policies pursued so far. Thank you for this comprehensive answer and for the possibility to continue to deepen these topics, not least that of the use of electronic card. I remember that the plants have undergone a great transformation. In the face of the crisis many families have left the typical family management to enter the perspective of these plants, called ghost because the operator is ghost, since it appears only to do purely physical operations of loading and unloading in the same system. A change has therefore been determined in the race and the MISE, in this case, together with the various organizations that deal with the issue, should try to accompany this process in order to make it easier, for those - as we have remembered - has operated in this field with so much effort, carrying out the activity also with a contribution of very high blood, having new opportunities for work and employment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u30	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-371.ana.u31	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 12 January, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.30 p.m.
