ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 4 February.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u4	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 54.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u9	Mr President, yesterday I listened carefully to the speeches of many colleagues, but perhaps we are talking about two different bills. In fact, I have heard heartfelt hints that I have shared, indeed, interventions totally dedicated to the Holocaust of the Jewish people, but this provision does not only speak of the Holocaust, because it introduces the aggression by negationism for hundreds and hundreds of cases that are at the attention of the International Criminal Court that concern war crimes, genocides and in general crimes against humanity. So my preliminary remark is that we legally compare the Holocaust, a huge historical tragedy, to any episode of war crime. But let us move on, because I would like Members to understand the reality of what they are called upon to vote on. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u10	Colleagues, the general discussion has begun, which does not mean that everyone can discuss.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u11	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). In fact, it is true that in a group of European countries legislative forecasts are found that expressly provide criminal sanctions for the conduct of denial of the Holocaust of the Jewish people (and there stop): in Germany, France, Belgium, Austria and Romania. In Eastern countries - Hungary, Poland and Lithuania - negationism has also been extended to crimes committed by communist regimes, for the obvious historical reasons of those countries. Then there are several criminals in the various countries. For example, the German case speaks of: "Diniego," justification or minimization of the genocide under the National Socialist Government, obviously because the Germans have historical memory of the Holocaust. The Spanish Court has intervened - be careful - stating that mere denial cannot be considered as creating a social climate of hostility and that it is therefore not a crime. In short, there is a varied situation in which, basically, what was hit was also in Nuremberg and we will see it. Indeed, when we held the hearings in the Commission, a number of experts were heard, 60% of whom expressed their opposition to any rule on negationism. The remaining 40% expressed a positive view of a rule that was only related to the Holocaust, so not to be extended to hundreds of other cases. The European decision to strike at the apology, denial, minimization of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes as defined in Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court is always mentioned. It is always forgotten, however, that paragraph 2 of the same European decision, where it is said that Member States can decide to make punishable only conduct which disturbs public order and which is threatening or even abusive. Instead, the text before us speaks of mere propaganda. Let me give an example, ladies and gentlemen, to better understand: with my colleague Gasparri we have always defended the reasons of the 300,000 Istrian-dalmatian exiles and we have always considered the denial of the foibe a national shame. Perhaps the colleagues on the left know something about what has happened historically. Well, today in Trieste italo-Slovene historiography, Kersevan and others, denies foibes: they say that they are an invention of Italians, that there have been individual cases of personal vendetta, but that the phenomenon of foibe and ethnic cleansing is an invention. Well, I don't share those arguments. Should I report them? According to this rule, yes, I should denounce Slovenian historians, or polemicists, who deny evidence that has historically been established. I believe that ideas must be fought and not criminal repression. Let us now come to what illustrious scholars, including Jews, have said on this subject. Professor Giovagnoli spoke on behalf of the 700 members of the Italian Society for the Study of Contemporary History, so he made an intervention on behalf of all the members of this society where he says: "on the definition of genocide, or on which have been the genocides in history, except in some cases there is no agreement between historians and lawyers and even less there is agreement on which should be considered war crimes and against humanity. In any case, it would be up to the judge to decide on an exquisitely historical matter and on which a broad scientific debate is opened. But historical truth cannot be fixed by law or in courtrooms, it can only be achieved through rigorous research, conducted freely by scholars. Official state truths are always dangerous, as the events of totalitarian regimes teach. In the countries in which they have been applied, moreover, and here he makes another reasoning, the anti-negationist laws have achieved counterproductive results, offering an involuntary forum for the propaganda of ignoble theses that otherwise would have been completely ignored by public opinion. Professor Flores, speaking in turn, recalled the opinions of Carlo Ginsburg, Sergio Luzzatto, Claudio Pavone, Mariuccia Salvati who opposed the Mastella bill. Many of these have been audited in the Commission and have taken a position on what Parliament was preparing to do, perhaps with a slogan: historical research is not being judged. In fact, speaking, Professor Ginzburg said: "The idea of bringing these ambiguous cases to court is simply absurd. Denialism is not an opinion, it is a lie. For the reasons I have set out above, I do not think that this lie should be turned into a crime. Of the same opinion is Professor Canfora (who is not exactly a right-wing man): "To pursue in terms of law this pseudo-historographic strategy of a negationist type seems little justifiable: it is a bad historiography, not an incitement to commit acts." It is clear that a law proposing to ban bad or bad historiography would make no sense or justification. Let us not forget the wise decision made in Israel to publish the Mein Kampf; the motivation was: evil must be known, not hidden. This is Canfora's intervention. Then there is Professor Luzzatto. We could not invite lawyers to speak in Italy who believe that Srebrenica was not a genocide, we should expunge from libraries books that do not accept to use the term genocide for the massacre of Armenians. But we should also send young people to prison, who are ignorant, who repeat judgmental judgments. So Professor Luzzatto, like most of the speakers, stands up against it. However - this is important and I say this also to explain our position - we distinguish war crimes, genocides, crimes against humanity, which (repeat) are hundreds and concern hundreds of cases brought to the attention of the international court, from the Holocaust as such. In fact, some of the speakers, including those of Professor Giorgio Priests and Professor Di Caesar in particular, rightly made a distinction. Professor Priests argued that "the crime of negationism of serious crimes (international crimes) " would be limited to those listed in the Statute of the Court of Nuremberg, and therefore reported to the period 1939-1945 in Europe. By avoiding the reference to the offences listed in the Statute of the International Criminal Court, it avoids the risk of penalising the negation of crimes in part not yet sanctioned and occurring in the most varied and distant contexts. Let's understand: here the Holocaust is watered down. Ladies and gentlemen, the Holocaust is watering down here; this terrible tragedy of the annihilation of an entire people is being put on the same footing as any episode of war crime that has taken place all over the world. This is the cultural operation that the Italian Parliament is doing. Moreover, in the courts some countries denounce Israel because in Gaza, defending itself, it would have committed war crimes. Therefore, if Israel is convicted of war crimes, I would not want anyone who defends Israel to make propaganda for Israel and refuse to accept sentences that put Israel on the stand and perhaps pass the arguments of Hamas, risk being indicted by the rule that we are approving this morning. Beautiful defense of the Holocaust and the tragedy of the Jewish people of sixty years ago! But there is also the tragedy of today's Jewish people, and it is no coincidence that Professor Priests and then Professor Di Caesar agreedly indicated only in the Holocaust the object of a law. Professor Di Caesar believes that the extermination of the Jews of Europe was the extreme result of a crime policy, that of Nazism, which has not passed and passed. Intellectual Hitlerism, in all its forms, has not been defeated. Humanity after Auschwitz wears an indelible imprint on the gas chamber. Denying Auschwitz is not denying a historical event like another. I would like to draw our attention to this. We are comparing Auschwitz to any other crime. If you go read the convention, rape during a war is a war crime. It is very serious rape, but don't tell me that we vary a law in which we equalize a rape during a war action in Africa, Serbia, Bosnia or anywhere else in the world to exterminate the Jewish people and put together Holocaust and war crimes and so on. Professor Di Caesar continues: "The negation of this crime" is, in turn, a crime that has a collusion with criminal policies. In the face of this threat in the future, we are all called to responsibility. Because a world in which the existence of gas chambers is denied is a world that already allows crime policy. As you can see, the situation is very clear to me. Many European countries have only hit the Holocaust and have not extended the penalty to other tens or hundreds of cases. The European norm does not require us at all to write down the things we wrote there, so propaganda or supporting thesis that may be unwelcome to this or to that criminal. I am thinking of all those who have been audited in the Commission, I could mention the Criminal Chambers, I could quote Baptist this morning on the evening Corriere, which says that Parliament is doing a great deal of nonsense. He says it in general and also puts the Holocaust in it; I make the exception of the Holocaust. The historians who came to the Commission divided themselves into two categories: those who said that the law should not be done at all, neither for the Holocaust nor for the rest, and a minority who said that it should be done only for the Holocaust and that it should be limited to that exceptional historical period. We are doing exactly the opposite (I hope not). The text before us, in fact, makes the whole grass a bundle. I find it genuinely offensive. I do not understand why the colleagues who spoke yesterday spoke only of the Holocaust, they said that this is a measure against the Holocaust and that they want to eliminate this horrible crime, when they then support a text in which the Holocaust is in the various and possible cases, together with hundreds of other cases. We have tabled amendments precisely to remove the rest, which has nothing to do with this historic tragedy and to discuss what propaganda is about. One thing is incitement to hatred, which is already punished, and another is propaganda. Once an association of my Giuliano-Dalmatian friends wanted to denounce Italian and Slovenian historians who had written certain things, claiming that we would then see in court if the magistrate would have established that the denial of the foibe is to blame Italian fascist nationalism, that is to say to a racial issue: the Italians, nationalists, had it with the Slovenes and, after twenty years of persecution, the foibe are only a personal vendetta and there was no design. It would then be discussed in court. I stopped these friends of mine who really wanted to introduce negationism with regard to foibes and I always said that this was a huge nonsense: the historical truth of the foibe must be demonstrated, as has been demonstrated, and it must be explained to the students, who rightly go to Auschwitz and it is right that they also go to Basovizza. It is right to remember the tragedy of our exiles and to emphasize it, as we did yesterday; but we must not move all this in terms of criminal repression. And I am referring to people who, from a political point of view, write things that are horrible and disgusting to me (I think of historians who deny the tragedy of the foibes): but I do not want to move this at the criminal level. So we have tabled three amendments and perhaps we will remain isolated. But there will also be someone in this Parliament who also defends liberal democratic culture, someone who defends freedom. I don't know if you notice or if you've noticed: today we're here with this new crime, tomorrow we'll be here with the new environmental crimes and so on. We spend a large part of our time introducing new criminal rules and new criminal rules; and this would be a Parliament that would have to simplify and bring back the economic, social, civil, historical and cultural debate in terms of dialectic and not in terms of criminal repression, magistrates and judges. We have therefore tabled these amendments and, on the basis of the acceptance they will have, we will decide our position, which - let me say - is the most friendly, loyal and the most supportive of the Jewish people and Israel, and which sees all the dangers that will come from this law to the Jewish people and Israel. [[Applause from Senators Albertini and Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u13	Mr President, I should like to begin by making one important point. There were those who - contrary to what Senator Giovanardi has just said, who preceded me - objected that it is abnormal that a law mentions a particular case and does not remain to the general and abstract, i.e. it does not limit itself to a general and abstract definition of a behavior that can then be punished. However, there are several laws dealing with facts in particular; and then there is another aspect that is far from detailed. The extermination of the Jews during the Second World War certainly did not take place alone and not only because of decisions of the Nazi regime in Germany, but had its willing collaborators - as defined by one historian - also in other countries, including Italy. The notorious racial law, or rather racist law, which was passed in this Chamber too, is what started the situation that ended with the deportation of most of the Jews who lived in Italy and in particular, since we are in Rome, of the Roman Jews, who represented and represent the most important Jewish presence in our country. These hateful norms actually laid all the foundations for the solution that was then put in place, because the Jews in practice were no longer allowed to live in our country: they could not work, they could not have assignments and practice their professions. They were excluded from all state employment and thrown out of all the places they covered, from the most humble to the most prestigious, and this happened for a vote expressed in these classrooms. I therefore believe that it is right that in these very classrooms an active remedy should be found for what was then done. The racial laws (which were already removed from the royal decrees of 1944 and then of course with the Constitution, indeed, already with the peace treaty that ended the Second World War) were unanimously approved by the House, where it was voted by clear ballot, while in the Senate, where it was voted by secret ballot, there were only nine votes against. Twenty senators classified as Jewish races - as reported by a ministerial rule of the time - did not participate in the vote, did not intervene, perhaps because they were victim of intimidation, and the nine votes against were less than the number of senators not enrolled in the Fascist National Party and nothing tells us that among those nine votes against maybe there was that of someone enrolled in the Fascist National Party. What we are doing with the draft law I believe is therefore more than justified, since unfortunately it is our country - not another - in which these things took place. Then there are the doubts that have been illustrated in several interventions, in particular by Senator Giovanardi who preceded me, but I do not think they take into account the current text of the measure, except for two details. First of all, the measure in our examination is a guarantee, because it intervenes with regard to the denial of the Shoah and other war crimes - and on this I will return - only as aggravating the crime of incitement to hatred and violence for racial, ethnic and religious reasons, as already provided for by the so-called Mancino law. Therefore, no one can be condemned tomorrow that is not already condemned today, because the crime of incitement to hatred is already punished today: if there is no incitement to hatred, even the grossest denial of the Shoah or its genocidal nature cannot be punished. Yesterday someone spoke of the freedom of historical research, which in truth is fully safeguarded by this bill: no historian can be charged for having supported any argument about the Shoah or other crimes that can be included in the current formulation of the text, unless he or they, under the pretext of historical research, make incitement to hatred using as an instrument also the denial of these crimes. Therefore, there is no limitation to freedom, let alone to freedom of historical research. Another point must be emphasized: it is better specified, in general and not only with regard to the negationism of the Shoah, the nature of the incitement to hatred, by inserting the words "publicly" in the Mancino law and not only with regard to the facts specifically mentioned in this text, but to better specify the nature of social danger of certain behaviors. We note well that these are aspects that are not present in the current law and that are introduced as a form of guarantee against freedom of opinion even if it is an unholy opinion. There is also a different penalty for incitement to criminals, even here with a truly guaranteed understanding and effect. I come to two problematic points mentioned. The first is the inclusion not only of the Shoah, but also of other war crimes, as specified in the text. This can undoubtedly be a problem, although I believe that in its wording the Commission has taken the view that these are crimes committed and recognised by the competent courts. I do not really believe that it was the Commission's will, and therefore now in the Senate Chamber when it came to approving the text as it stands, to mean that any judge can decide on the reality and the nature of war crime of any act which has not been recognized as such by a competent international court. I therefore ask the rapporteur, whom I thank for her work so far, to consider the possibility by means of her amendment, because at the moment practice does not allow other senators, to consider the possibility of further clarifying this aspect, namely that a magistrate may consider any act or any case falling within Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the law establishing the international court, or that it is an unnecessary clarification. I believe that we are passing a positive law, which should be passed by a large majority, and I hope it is. It will be a good thing even if it is not adopted unanimously, given the atrocious precedents I mentioned earlier with reference to a law adopted unanimously. However, I would ask those who have expressed their opposition to consider the text that we are examining today, not the one that arrived in the previous part-session of months ago, or the original one. Today, in fact, we are examining a text that certainly excludes 99, if not 100 percent, of the dangers mentioned by those who have so far expressed their opposition. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u14	Senator Palermo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u15	Mr President, I was very impressed by this general debate because almost everyone expressed certainness. Almost everyone is certain of one consequence or another of the measure that we are about to adopt. But as someone has said - in reality few - we are faced with a tragic, very difficult choice, between goods both worthy of protection. It seems to me that the measure is amply problematic and even out of time compared to other countries which had intervened legally a long time ago: clearly it would have had a different meaning to do so in the immediate post-war period than to do it after almost seventy years. Of course, the rule we are about to approve has an important symbolic value that cannot be overlooked. As a jurist, however, I believe that we need to be very careful about the symbolic rules, because they tend to be non-standard or rules with little sense. Objectively, I would say that this is not a matter of law, it is a matter of culture that should be expressed in other ways and not necessarily through a provision of law. However, we are here and are called to take a position on this point. Personally, I would like to highlight a couple of points very quickly. First of all, I would never and never have voted on the original version of the measure which, now a year ago, seemed to have to come to this House and which, in all likelihood, would have been illegitimate. In fact, like the case law of several constitutional courts, from the French Constitutional Council to the Spanish Constitutional Council, he has said a great deal about measures similar to the previous version, freedom of expression would have been excessive. This text, as has been mentioned, is much better. It does not introduce a crime of opinion and, in this regard, it must not be made false information, but an aggravating factor for propaganda, public incitement and public incitement based on the denial of the Shoah and other crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war as defined by the Statute of the International Criminal Court. That is to say that the legal framework is much clearer and much less problematic. In addition, we are complying with European legislation in this respect, namely the 2001 Framework Decision. It does not seem to me that the banks are opening up to dangerous situations, but it seems to me that some false information has been made in this debate. I would like to close, Mr President, by pointing out that, as has been pointed out and should not be forgotten, it is true that our system already allows us to punish these demonstrations, and therefore this rule as well as being symbolic is also absolutely useless from a strictly legal point of view. I very much envy all my colleagues who have expressed great certainty on this issue, because I have not and cannot have them. I do not know, perhaps it is wrong not to have them in this House. Personally, I have only doubts about this matter, I am very much torn apart and I must say that, in my personal capacity, I have decided not to take part in the vote, because any choice will be wrong. I shall therefore vote neither in one sense nor in the other. However, since we are talking and the debate will remain in place, let us at least look at the law that we are about to adopt as a rule under consideration. Some have predicted terrible consequences, with historians in jail and people who will no longer be able to speak and express their opinions. I don't think so, but trouble if there was such a case. If such problems occur, we make a common commitment to amend the law immediately if it is adopted. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u16	Senator Fattorini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to a controversy that has occupied the pages of the newspapers for many days, taking up a long debate, which occasionally comes back and which, although it seems very complicated, does not only involve the community of scholars. I am referring - thinking of the full-page articles published in these days on the "Corriere della Sera" as in all national newspapers - dedicated to the involvement of a great German philosopher, perhaps the greatest of the twentieth century, Heidegger, who in his time, after the war, in 1946 was removed from public offices and banned for his support to Hitler. The controversy, which repeatedly returns, is now about a notebook of notes found unexpectedly (but not entirely), the so-called black notebook, written between 1942 and 1948 and therefore in decisive moments and after, when the tragedy was now confirmed and Germany was in a great drama from which it never came out (and in fact there the crime of negationism there is and has a history different from ours). In the notebook, Heidegger claims that the Jews have been self - annihilated. With a reasoning with which I will not bore you now, he claims that the Jews embodied modernity and technique and were killed by their own technique. He therefore supports this idea and is convinced that annihilation was wanted by the Jews themselves - who, as many say, certainly inducing unhealthy opinions, they went to seek it - but he is a great philosopher, who told us huge things about the fundamental problems of existence, of the individual and of the community, about time, death and being. To get to us, this is not only a problem of history, data and recognition, but it is a deeper question: it is philosophy that tells us the root of this problem, which does not happen to come back continuously. In fact, it is difficult to distinguish opinions from the consequences of opinions and this is said by a philosopher who has been the protagonist of this dimension. In order to reach us and our little one, it must be said that all this is very difficult, so much so that we, historians and scholars present here at the Senate, who belong to the scientific communities that study these issues, have been very opposed to the previous version of the bill and we are very opposed to a version that condemns negationism as a crime of opinion in criminal proceedings. In this case, however, in the text of the law we are discussing, this very difficult distinction between opinion and incitement, between facts and interpretation of facts, between judgment and fact, between judgment and consequence of this judgment, is resolved in a sufficiently effective way - although with much ambiguity, because probably it should not be made even in principle - because there is a clear distinction between opinion and incitement, as supported by the interventions of those who preceded me. The opinion, in fact, can never be suppressed, but the denial - and here we come to the case - must be stigmatized not by the law, but by the scientific community, because it is a fake historical. It will therefore be the academic colleagues and their research that will tell us how false this is. Believe me, mine is not an intellectual scum in defense of the corporation, because we are deeply convinced that the only effective way to really fight a historical falsity is to refute it iuxta's own principle, with data, documents and factual evidence. It is a scientific fact and not an opinion and is therefore not punishable by law, but it is to be condemned in terms of profession, communication and transmission. It is a vital fact to tell our young people that those who claim that this did not happen say something wrong, because it is not true. And that's not wrong, because it's his opinion: opinion is something else. Think of Heidegger, so much so that the scientific community every decade wonders about this intriguing, complicated and really very disturbing figure. On the contrary, history has its own reality; there is or is not a fact: those who deny it are to be stigmatized and their scientific work is to be condemned. Incitement, on the other hand, must be punished. It is a third level: there is opinion, there is denial and, finally, there is incitement. This is what pursues the text in our examination, which contains decisive improvements: it has also been said by Senator Malan that in the text absolutely does not foresee a crime of opinion, but only an aggravating article 3 of the so-called "Royal-Left Law," in the case of an incitement that however is pronounced, public, verifiable and has consequences. Therefore, we will vote for the text with conviction, despite the perplexities I have said before and which we have always supported. I conclude by saying that we are convinced - I am also speaking on behalf of other historians, but I am sure that I am convinced - that we can never incriminate an opinion, but that the same freedom of expression - see the case "Je suis Charlie" - also has limits. Even freedom of expression has limits, which, as Senator Manconi said well, are respecting the opinions and people, beliefs and religions of others. So we remain strongly opposed to incriminating even the fake historian: I would like to reassure Senators Scilipoti Isgrò and Giovanardi. Here it is not about putting the historians De Felice and Nolte in jail, because Ernst Nolte, who is the one who has measured himself most with the theme of the Shoah (and not only with fascism), has never denied existence. Here we enter a whole other field, which is the revisionist one, which says: let's try to understand why it happened. Nolte wondered why it happened. So, we leave this to historians. With these clarifications, I would like to express my thanks for the work done by the Commission and the rapporteur and to announce that we will vote in favour of this new text of the measure. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u18	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u19	Mr President, it seems to me that this debate has honoured Parliament and, in an absolutely secular way, I feel I can say that the measure we are discussing is acceptable. Someone has expressed doubts in a civil way, but I believe that we cannot forget that the Shoah is the last story of a very long history that touches the Jewish community that is part of the territory of Italy and Rome (the Jewish community of Rome is the oldest in Europe). I think it is right to vote on a balanced bill that respects everyone's opinions, but since there are things that we should not forget, we must remember them and stress them so that they do not really happen again.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u20	Senator Palma is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u21	Mr President, I confess that I have expressed my wish to speak after the intervention of Senator Scilipoti Isgrò. This desire, however, went down listening to the debate and, subsequently, for the part that I could not listen to, reading the various speeches. I would like to say at once that I share, word for word, the speech made by Senator Airola, who has presented an agenda, in my opinion absolutely acceptable, with a problem that clearly escapes the issues of criminal law: I am referring to the fact that it affects a cultural revolution in this country. I agree with many of the speakers, and I believe, for example, that Senator Corsini has fully grasped the meaning of this debate or part of it, when he says that many Members have misunderstood in some way the nature of the debate we are conducting. In this respect, Senator Lo Giudice, yesterday, and Senator Malan, today, were extremely clear. I am not going to go down the path of history and philosophy, partly because, as Senator Carraro said, the debate has been particularly high and I am not going to make a bad figure here. However, as a person who has had the practice of criminal jurisdiction, I will confine myself to referring the speech to what it really is: a speech that does not touch on the highest issues of liberalism, freedom of expression and freedom of opinion, but that simply limits itself, as Senator Malan said, to better qualifying the criminal hypothesis already existing in our legal system. I would like to clear the field from a misunderstanding immediately. Everyone - historical or not - is allowed to deny the existence of the Holocaust, crimes against humanity, genocide or war crimes. The measure we are going to take will not penalise this kind of behaviour. Therefore, all calm: historians, if they wish, will be able to continue to deny the Holocaust and citizens, of whatever idea they are, can continue to do the same thing or, if they believe, extend it also to the individual genocides, crimes against humanity and war crime, which - alas - also today (repeat, even today) often happen in this world. So, Senator Corsini is right: the meaning of the debate is different; it is to understand if, through this bill, we innovate with respect to the criminal system, and if, by innovating, we punish a manifestation of thought. I'm sorry to have to tell everyone, but that's not how it is. Like it or not, in our order there is law No. 654 of 1975, which punishes in clear terms anyone propaganda on ideas based on superiority or racial hatred, and I do not see that there is a single bill in the two branches of Parliament that tends to repeal this provision. Similarly, in our order there is already a rule that punishes those who incite to commit or commit acts of discrimination on racial, ethnic, national or religious grounds. We do, however, intervene on this point, because we believe that the incitement is not better characterized by extending beyond measure the scope of the sanction of the assessments, as well as to pose difficult and disturbing problems of proof. Let me give an example: according to this rule, if I had to, by hypothesis, with a certain insistence, ask a person I know not to invite to various receptions other subjects, just because maybe of skin color different from the white one, that is because they are of a nationality different from the Italian one, or because they frequent the Jewish religion, I would essentially be punished. However, if this happens within a private sphere it is completely lacking that characteristic of the danger to public order that is the basis of all associative crimes, or, to put it in "juridical" terms, of all crimes in advance protection. We demand that in order to punish these behaviors, incitement or public incitement must be public, that is, it must be addressed to an indeterminate number of people so that it can give rise to the danger of that interest which is the presupposition of the norm, neither more nor less than this. This is the operation that has been carried out in the Justice Commission, taking note of the existing legislation. After that, on the basis of the bill that came to us from the House and in the need to clearly solve an open problem in the country, it was considered that these already existing illicit behaviors (propaganda based on superiority or racial hatred, or public incitement to commit acts of discrimination, always for racial reasons) should be aggravated when such propaganda, such incitement and such incitement were also based on the denial of the Holocaust and other crimes provided for in the statute of the International Criminal Court; neither more nor less than this. Therefore, to be clear, the denial of the Holocaust and other crimes will be punished in aggravated terms only and exclusively in the event that such denial is instrumental to propaganda based on superiority or racial hatred, or only and exclusively when such denial is aimed at the incitement and incitement of acts of discrimination. I really cannot understand the reason why we are talking about crimes of opinion, even bearing in mind that in our criminal system there are different and multiple cases of criminal prediction, sometimes sanctioned with the penalty of imprisonment and sometimes sanctioned with a security measure, which punish attitudes absolutely similar to this. No more and no less than that. And it would perhaps be appropriate for everyone in this House, on the understanding that everyone, legitimately, can express all the views he thinks best, for a debt of clarity to the citizens, to start with the truth, which is this, and then make his own possible instrumental arguments. Because anything that does not start from the truth, as Senator Corsini recalled, is simply a lie. Having said that, Mr President and Senators, I would like to thank all the people and all the senators who have spoken for their appreciation of the work of the Justice Commission and, in particular, the rapporteur, Senator Capacchione. We have tried, in the Justice Commission, to find a shared solution, as Senator Lumia often says, and I believe we have succeeded. It is no coincidence that this measure was adopted by a large majority. But what matters most to me at this time is that, from our point of view, even if everything is improved, we have been able to provide a balanced and moderate solution, which is perfectly within our criminal legal system without upheavals. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator D'Anna. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u22	I would like to address the House's greeting to a representation of students and teachers from the State High School Pliny Senior College in Rome, who are following our work. I also greet Renzo Gattegna, president of the Union of Italian Jewish Communities, who is also present in the Chamber today, along with some members of the Jewish community. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u23	The general debate is closed. I inform you that Senator Stefani has presented the G101 agenda, which is being distributed. As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in her reply, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u24	Mr President, I too, on behalf of the Government, would like to thank the Justice Commission for its work. I have to say that the text has been improved in the Commission and, according to the Government, that balance has been achieved and highlighted in the various interventions that took place between yesterday and this morning. It is that balance between freedom of manifestation of thought, between scientific and historical research activities and the right punishment and offensiveness for those who put serious crimes into being. The bill on denial aligns Italian legislation with that of many other European countries and is an important tool against intolerable manifestations of anti-Semitism and denial of serious crimes. There are, in fact, episodes of our past whose negative assessment cannot be called into question, constituting the cultural basis and the founding origin of our democracy. Certain thesises, especially those that deny the Holocaust, find their cultural humus in neo-Nazi ideology and as such must be considered and, therefore, rejected without if and without but. In this sense, the law in question must be seen, according to the Government, not as a limitation to freedom of thought, but as an instrument to counter those that are non-thoughts: both because they are contrary to those that now constitute peaceful historical evidences, and because they are dangerously functional to the spread of violent and anti-democratic ideologies. Moreover, freedom of expression of thought must also be balanced and balanced with respect for other constitutionally relevant values, including the protection of democratic institutions and the prohibition of any discrimination. We must therefore stress the important work that has been done so far by the Senate Justice Commission. The risks of harming freedom of thought, which also emerged in some interventions, have been overcome by the Commission by improving the text. I would like to stress this because the Commission, already in its initial phase in October 2013, had eliminated from the list of punishable conduct that consisting in the minimization of war crimes. It was certainly an appropriate elimination, given the need to safeguard research and historical-scientific activity and thus guaranteeing this freedom and overcoming the difficulty of defining in a legislative text with precision, and therefore in a manner compatible with the principles of fiscality and sufficient determination of the criminal case, what should be the criminally relevant measure and therefore the threshold of punishable minimization of a historical fact. Furthermore, I would like to stress how the Commission Justice, in June 2014, has specified that the incitement must take place publicly and it is an opportune requirement also in order to make this legislation consistent with that of the crime of incitement to delinquere ex Article 414 of the penal code, but above all with the aim of filling in the content of the description of the criminal conduct, in order to ensure that only be punished behaviors actually detrimental to goods deserving of criminal protection. The basic text also envisages the figure of negationism as an assault on mere incitement, in fact the basic crime is described as the one consisting in public incitement to commit acts of discrimination or acts of provocation to violence, as well as in the propaganda of ideas based on superiority or racial hatred, while as a new aggravating one is expected the case in which propaganda, public incitement or incitement are based on the denial of the Shoah, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity or war crimes. So all this has been resolved, the interpreter and the judge will then have to take into account all that constitutional jurisprudence already crystallized with regard to Article 414 of the penal code and therefore the Constitutional Court goes still to emphasize how the crime integrates when the behavior is concretely suitable to provoke the commission of crimes. All those arguments highlighted by Senator Giovanardi are therefore overcome and resolved, because this bill does not introduce a new crime, but it is an assault. It does not widen the area of what is criminally relevant, rather it narrows with the insertion of the term "publicly". It only increases the penalty when what was already a crime is committed in certain ways The Government is also in favour of the agendas, as already expressed in the Commission and underlines to the Assembly its commitment to give the appropriate directives so that public and private schools, of every order and grade, within the framework of their autonomy, can promote initiatives aimed at deepening the issues related to war crimes or genocide or against humanity, with particular reference to those occurred during the 20th century, considering that - I conclude and thank you for the attention - it is culturally and educationally that the real battle against negationism and, more generally, against all these forms of historical revisionism is played. So the government's commitment to this issue is maximum from an educational, information, scientific and cultural point of view. On the one hand, we expect repression for offensive behaviors and on the other we expect investment in education, training and education to make our children aware of the history and cruelty that has occurred.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u25	We shall now proceed to the agenda, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u26	Mr President, I support the adoption of both agendas as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u29	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, since not all Members were present yesterday, when the time comes, if I may, I would like to remind my colleagues of the content of the G100 agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the floor, Senator Airola. AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to say to my fellow Members that the agenda for the G100 is a simple invitation to the schools of every order and grade to teach history at least until the Second World War, although, as I said yesterday, it would be necessary to extend this limit further, since the twentieth century is the last century, in order to give young people a somewhat more current view of recent history. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Know, then, that if you support this agenda, you will make a commitment before the Italian people and the representatives of the Jewish community to truly give practical help to the school to carry these teachings forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u30	I am in favour of accepting the G100 and G101 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u31	Therefore, accepted as a recommendation also by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u34	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to specify the content of the G101 agenda, since it was presented this morning and I had already anticipated it to the rapporteur. In our agenda, the main emphasis is on the episodes of foibe and foibe martyrs. The invitation that we have proposed is to include in the school programs a day of deepening this serious drama that unfortunately matured in the years of the immediate post-war period and had this sad epilogue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u37	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to speak on the G100 agenda in order to explain my thoughts on this, which is certainly a commendable agenda. Many speeches were made on this day and a half of general discussion and in his last speech President Palma spoke of a cultural revolution. It is really a matter of acquiring as necessary the fact that the study of history and the historical approach are truly oriented to the critical sense and an ability to interpret the facts so that the idea truly penetrates the culture that the evaluation of historical facts must be oriented to the search for truth and not to an instrumentalization. Now, of course, it is commendable that with the agenda before Senator Airola's signature attention shifts from the subject of the crime - and I must say that once again the Senate has corrected and prepared a much better text than the one that came out of the House and that solves a number of problems - to a cultural approach, since for such a theme the first approach must be this. Even if it is not put to the vote, my position is certainly in favour of the G100 agenda. However, I would like to stress and denounce the fact that, as has often been the case in this House, the task of carrying out a series of tasks, such as building a civic conscience, a critical sense and a sense of freedom, is being delegated to the school. However, I would also like you to remember, since we are talking about the teaching of history, that we have not yet solved the cuts that have been made in the teaching of history, geography and other subjects of a theoretical nature that would be those within which this problem should be addressed. It is clear that it becomes easy and also very welcome to say that it is necessary to include in the school the obligation to face the events of the twentieth century and to talk about these issues, but I must say that the critical sense and the search for truth are also addressed even with disciplines such as Greek history, because already there are themes that can be reproposed, as history is cyclical. All this would be perfect if there were no underlying hypocrisy, so that, while the school is being asked to perform all these functions, hours and funds are cut. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, we are talking about an agenda that has been accepted, so I invite you to conclude. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I am sorry, but this issue is not irrelevant; it is a strong issue which concerns the real effectiveness of what we are going to recommend to the Government. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u40	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to Senator Stefani's G101 agenda. I would also ask the rapporteur and the government to change their opinions, because it is not clear why the request to be able to foresee the presentation of a part of our history within schools should be treated as a recommendation: either there is a full commitment to these issues, or else I have to say that there are situations that allow us to reflect on political spaces that have nothing to do with what we are doing. I therefore ask the Government and the rapporteur to change their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u43	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would also like to ask you to sign the two agendas. After that, however, I am representing both the Government and the rapporteur with the same observation as Senator Volpi. Let's face it: I left high school in 1968 and at that time the teaching of history ended with the facts of Milan of General Bava Beccaris and we didn't even get to the wars of Africa of the early twentieth century. If we raise the problem of denying the existence of certain tragedies, I believe that a formulation for which the Government is committed to giving directives so that, within its autonomy, schools can promote initiatives, can be accepted with respect to a mere recommendation that - let us be frank - for those who like me have - alas - a long militancy in Parliament is substantially reduced to a contentment towards those who present an agenda; a contentment that everyone knows, Government and presenter, to be destined to remain alone and exclusively such.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u46	CAPACCHONE, rapporteur. I am in favour of both agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u47	I would also like to remind you that there are also laws of the State which also promote in the school initiatives of memory, remembrance, compared to tragedies that have invested the national and international community. The rapporteur's favourable opinion therefore refers to both agendas. The Government had already expressed a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u48	I confirm the acceptance of both orders of the day. In fact, I thank Senators Volpi and Palma for the clarification and confirm the commitment of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u49	The G100 and G101 agendas will not be put to the vote since they have been accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u50	Mr President, in line with what was said yesterday, I would like to draw attention to Amendment 1,200. The goal is to make a contribution to make the deterrent more effective and at the same time not to make heroes those who run into the sanction of our penal code. Therefore, the amendment proposes that the sanction should be of an economic and financial nature, so as to be effective, albeit with the preventive considerations I made yesterday in my speech, and so as to counter instrumental affinities aimed at other purposes and not at those instead of a scientific dialectic on contradictory historical events. On the other hand, as regards the specific fact of the Holocaust of Jews, Roma, homosexuals, etc., since there are judgments of international courts, from this point of view for the denial of this historical affair of the highest gravity the penalty has increased from half, so as to establish a difference between situations that still have a difficulty of punctual investigation and for which the dialectic of historical research is still, to some extent, necessary compared to events that instead are peaceful and established also in judicial. I withdraw the other amendments 1,201, 1,209, 1,210, 1,211 and 1,213.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u51	I withdraw amendment 1,202.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u52	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u53	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank President Palma, who is always kind and ironic. President Palma, if a year ago I had not signed it, together with my colleagues from the Five Star Movement, in the deliberating session, without even Parliament being able to discuss it, it would have passed what everyone today called an obnoxious, that is, an absolutely unacceptable law that hit the opinion of historians hard. This has been avoided by those who have noticed that that law was totally wrong. President Palma, since you are the President of the Commission who wanted to approve this obnoxious decision-making, it is right that we should say things to each other in dialectic and intellectual honesty. It is clear that we have made enormous progress since then, but we also need intellectual honesty - in this the President has had it - to know what we are talking about. Unfortunately, it is difficult in Italian laws, when, for example, a previous law or paragraph a) or b) of the 1975 law is cited, to understand what is being done. I have nothing to object to if you hit anyone who instigates or commits acts of discrimination on racial, ethnic, national or religious grounds in any way, but here we do something different. We refer to Article 1 (a) of the so-called Mancino law, that is, we strike those propaganda ideas based on superiority, racial hatred and so on. Let's not go on the incitement plan. We strike exactly who propaganda ideas based on superiority and to whom do we call judgment whether these ideas based on superiority are incriminable or not? To the magistrates. Because in war crimes, genocides, crimes against humanity and the Holocaust there are hundreds and hundreds of cases, when there is a judgment of a court in order to one of these events who, contrary to what the court has established, propaganda ideas based on superiority at that time risks incriminating. Why, then, does this amendment propose to delete the reference to propaganda? Because we put our ideas on the table. Let us be realistic: if I put myself from the point of view of the Arab States, it is clear that I have an attitude towards the State of Israel, its laws and how it applies them, which is very different from mine. There may be an international court that marries that point of view that I do not agree with, but I want absolutely freedom to challenge the decision of an international tribunal on war crimes if I think it is wrong, even if there are ethnic or nationalist issues at stake such as Serbia or Bosnia, whose wars have been based on religious and ethnic issues, from Srebrenica onwards. So if a court decides for the Serbs, for the Croatians or for the Muslims, I cannot be indicted if I propagate ideas about the superiority of one point of view over another. Always with a view to improving the law, I propose to strike the incitement to hatred and incitement, but not propaganda of ideas. Above all, Parliament cannot put in the hands of the judge - as the historians who have come to the Commission have said - and cannot make an opinion dependent on a judgment in relation to a historical situation which must be assessed and deepened. So Amendment 1,203, which proposes to delete the words 'propaganda', is aimed at restricting the attitude and the attack on incitement and not simply at the circulation of ideas, whether right or wrong. This first amendment therefore aims to exclude propaganda, in order to leave within the limits of incitement, and not the circulation of ideas, the case that is being punished. Amendment 1,205, which puts us in line with the majority of European countries, aims to limit to the Holocaust this worsening of penalties, excluding the other hundreds of cases that water down the Holocaust or equalize it to totally different historical situations and certainly a million times less serious than the Holocaust itself. Finally, Amendment 1,206 aims to limit the prediction to genocide crimes and crimes against humanity, which are already difficult to qualify (as we have seen in the hearings), excluding war crimes. Crime of war in fact is also a simple episode that happens during a war (for example a civil war, in Ukraine or anywhere else in the world). Therefore, leaving this reference, let us move from the Holocaust to genocide, to crimes against humanity and even to war crimes; I propose to exclude at least war crimes, so that the cases on which we intervene are facts of great political, historical and cultural importance and instead there are hundreds of other cases that we do not understand why they must be equal to these tragedies of history. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u54	Mr President, I would like to make a request for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u55	I am in agreement with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u58	GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u61	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I will of course vote in favour of my amendment, because I want to make a point of view. Wanting to sanction a behavior, to think of being able to put someone in jail because it expresses an opinion, albeit with all the disapprovals that come from me and the civil world, it is a mistake, which leads to make that position an emblematic fact and therefore to attract media attention on it and everything else. On the other hand, I propose a more effective sanction: hitting in the portfolio the one who starts to say nonsense. This amendment simply wants to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u62	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200, tabled by Senators Buemi and Longo Fausto Guilherme. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,201 and 1,202 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,203, tabled by Senator Giovanardi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,204, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,205, tabled by Senator Giovanardi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,206, tabled by Senator Giovanardi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,207, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,208.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u65	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I shall vote in favour of Senators Buccarella and Fucksia's amendment 1,208, to which I would like to add my signature. I have also already signed the G100 agenda, presented by my colleague, Mr Airola, which includes the commitment - in my opinion very important - to the Government to give certain directives to public and private schools, so that they can promote initiatives aimed at deepening the issues relating to war crimes or genocide or against humanity, with particular reference to those which occurred during the 20th century. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that even in the 19th century, when there was the Unity of Italy, a people was crushed and crimes were committed that were truly abhorrent to people. However, there was widespread propaganda to ensure that crimes against people were no longer seen as such. It is clear that, when we talk about crimes against people, we can only agree to condemn them. What did they then come up with? In order to justify the crimes committed, the word "people" was replaced by "brigants." By saying so, certain actions may seem right, but no: we must remember - and for this reason I think it is very important to do so at school - that they were people, especially peasants, who defended their own lands. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u68	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, the entire 5 Star Movement Group calls for amendment 1,208 to be signed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u69	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,208 tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,209, 1,210 and 1,211 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,212 tabled by Senators Buccarella and Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,213 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0,200, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u72	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I shall be brief. We will of course vote in favour of this bill, as I have already had the opportunity to say in general debate. As Senator Giovanardi has just said, the law has been improved by the rapporteur Rosaria Capacchione, who has made a major contribution, together with President Palma and of course all the members of the Justice Commission. One consideration I make aloud, ladies and gentlemen, is that, in fact, with the acceptance of the agendas, where we ask the government to make sure that the history of the 20th century is taught, we have tried to repair a vulnus of our teaching staff. Colleagues, to teach history, however, it would take a teaching body that that history knew. Our problem is that the current teaching staff that is forming our boys doesn't know that story. In fact, they are the young people of 1968; those who, arrived today at the teaching, at the time manifested themselves as politically engaged in the ultra-left, challenged in the streets the reforms of the Craxi government on the cost of labour. In short, they are those who have not had the opportunity to prepare themselves, to know the history of the twentieth century. That's why I think it's important that the government really strives to form first and foremost the teaching staff of our school - having teachers support exams to evaluate their preparation - and to rejuvenate it. Our children will otherwise not have that education that undersecretary Ferri in his reply recalled: educating, always educating, which means promoting education towards a culture aimed at making known what was the unexpected calamity of the Shoah, what were the foibes, what were the war crimes and their entity. As I have already said in general debate, putting history in the hands of magistrates - of whom I personally have little confidence, as the Italian people generally do - is not appropriate. In fact, if you did a survey you would realize that the Italian people do not have faith in this justice, especially in the truth that emerges from our courts, a procedural truth and certainly not the real truth. Already yesterday I had the opportunity to say that it is only a procedural truth and that we cannot put in the hands of the judges the possibility of writing the story. I repeat, the law we vote could not be done, or better, it could not have been done if our school had had trained teachers, able to teach what the Shoah, the foibes, the red triangle of death, communism, what they represented in the world Burma, Pol Pot, the Khmer Rouge and what atrocities they committed. However, we reaffirm the value of article 21, paragraph 1, of the Constitution because, as Calamandrei had the saying, whatever was done outside of the provisions of paragraph 1, Article 21 of our Constitution would mean regressing, shortening the path towards tyranny. With this bill we have tried to mitigate this aspect as much as possible and not to affect culture. Of course, repressing and incarcerating someone who thinks otherwise may not be correct. We should show these people what the Shoah and the Foibe have been, educate them and try to make them understand that to carry out undocumented ideas, interpreting or denying consolidated facts, it is as if someone said that when the sun is high, at noon, it is night: we would take it for a demented, a moron that we have to cure. Those who deny the Shoah are to be treated; perhaps it is not worth the expense of prison, we should bear the cost of care. Like when history writes about the evil that the judicial media coup of Tangentopoli has done: who, in a few years, will deny it is to be put in prison? No, it's to be treated because it's crazy, because it denies historical data that's already claimed. Mr President, I conclude by saying that we have done the minimum necessary. I must admit that if this law had been passed in the Commission in the deliberating session we would have done something wrong and wrong and it was right for those who wanted to bring it to the Chamber, such as Senator Giovanardi and the 5 Star Movement Group. If God wills, there has been this further reflection and thanks to the work of the Commission, the rapporteur Capacchione and President Palma I believe that today we have a minimum common denominator that allows us to overcome the ignorance of our teaching staff. A teaching body that must be formed, because it does not know the foibe or the Shoah, of which it does not even know the meaning and, above all, has a culture as a fan of ultra-left youth movements that is not able to teach the evils that communism has done to Italy and the world.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u75	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the draft law before us has had a fairly complex life, demonstrating what we are dealing with and what the related changes may be. Let's remember that at the time there was already a draft Mastella law that dealt precisely with this problem, interrupted for reasons related to the freedom to express a thought. Similarly, when we began to deal with the measure in the Commission, we immediately realized how difficult it was to contend with interests in some ways opposite: on the one hand, to punish what is also considered by European law as a crime, namely the crime of denying a crime and, on the other hand, the problem of freedom of opinion and historical research. It is not easy to solve this arcane coexistence between expressing an opinion and above all conducting historical investigations and not running into what could be considered a sort of "state crime," that is to say, denying the occurrence of certain events. There is a difficulty that has been mentioned recently, just as recently there has been the possibility of really talking about historical revisionism. There are in fact events that have been included in our school texts, on which many of us have formed, pages of history certainly written according to the victor's reading, as they say. However, there have been other serious events. The examination of the bill under consideration has given us the opportunity to talk about the terrible and heinous crime of the Holocaust, but we cannot forget all the other events that have happened, rather on these we can incardinate a discussion. I am referring, for example, to the terrible period that has involved the areas of Istria and Dalmatia, in which thousands of people have disappeared and have been massacred: we do not know exactly the number of them and we do not know if they have been 5,000 or 11,000. The Foibe was a very sad page in our story. In this regard comes the obligation to quote the words of the then President of the Republic, Napolitano, who on the Day of remembrance of 2007 spoke of a conspiracy of silence and came to say that we must assume responsibility for having denied, or tended to ignore, the truth for ideological prejudices and political blindness and for having removed that tragedy for diplomatic calculations and international conveniences. This is the opportunity to reopen studies and insights on these pages of history. Speaking again about the problem of negationism and about other heinous crimes that have occurred in our history, I want to remind you of the Armenian massacre. We think that according to some theories, supported by the Turkish Government itself, it is still considered problematic to determine whether or not it was a genocide: for this reason it is difficult to speak of a crime of negationism that is limited to establishing that the conduct of the person who denies, sic et simpliciter, a crime happened is criminal. For this reason this remodulation of the bill has been well accepted, which no longer provides for the possibility of the crime of negationism as a denial of an event, but it inserts it as an aggravating hypothesis of another type of crime, contained in Law No. 654 of 1975, the so-called Royal Law. There is therefore an escalation to a crime, which is based on propaganda of ideas based on racial superiority, or on incitement to commit acts of discrimination for racial reasons or for belonging to an ethnic or a creed. This forecast sets the problem in a different way and can be better received. However, there is no doubt that there may be more perplexity than about the attack, the same crime and the alleged conduct. There are hypotheses that are not easy to interpret, contained in this case of crime. The application of this rule is not simple, because it must be remembered that whenever the meshes of a standard are left to the free interpretation of those who are called to apply them there may be traps, linked to the discretion that has been left. It becomes therefore difficult to justify what is meant by "propaganda of ideas" and what exactly is the incitement to racial discrimination. It is not easy to set up such a crime: therefore, rather than leaving a mesh too wide and also a burden on the judiciary, we believe that a different solution could have been found. However, let us take this opportunity to say that what leaves us somewhat perplexed is more than anything else the second paragraph of Article 1 of the draft law under consideration, which provides for a reduction of the penalty for the crime of incitement to criminals. It has been said that this is a question of homogeneity in the application of penalties, but in our view it is not the historic moment, nor the right situation to predict reductions in punishment and the possibility of benefit against any kind of crime, including incitement to criminals. But we are going back to this issue and we still remember that we, with this measure, would like to talk about a struggle. In fact, the title of our bill brings changes to the article • in the matter of the fight and repression of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes I do not know whether, in fact, the content of the norm can be strictly obedient to the heading of the same bill. I do not know whether this will be enough to eliminate, unfortunately, the possibility of genocide, war crimes and so on. Therefore, we do not speak of a crime of negationism: in this case, we speak of an aggression, which we hope can be read and interpreted, by those who apply the law, with conscience and with awareness. Consciousness and awareness that can not be excluded, however, from a careful study and a continuous deepening of the historical themes and historical events happened. Let us never stop at a truth crystallized on a text of history or just because it has been sufficiently diffused: we always hold a critical attitude towards all the episodes that have already occurred because we are made of history and sometimes there is also, as can be said, the freedom to think evil. At the end of the speech, I would like to mention the words that were spoken at the time, again in 2007, by the Italian Society for the Study of Contemporary History, so that they will always remain as a warning. They are the reason why we have presented the agenda with which we call for the Government's commitment to plan study days to deepen the theme of the martyrs of the foibe. I remember the words that were spoken at that time: Civil society must persevere in a cultural, ethical and political battle, and only in this way can antibodies capable of eradicating or reducing and marginalizing negative positions be created. So culture will be the most important part, as well as predicting a crime. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u78	CATTANEO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in a personal capacity. I followed the interesting speeches and I also read the last thoughts sent to us a few weeks ago by Senator Gotor, whom I thank. I intervene because I have decided to abstain. I know that abstention is one vote against in this House. I abstain because I believe that banning negationism by law is wrong, and I would like to support this with two pleas. The first reason is a matter of principle. As far as the principle is concerned, I believe that it is not acceptable to impose a limit on research and to impose a limit on those who wish to engage in the study of a theory. This regardless of the content. I, too, find that the negationists' thesis is unacceptable, not to say ignoble, in scientific, methodological, moral and political terms. But - be careful - I do not believe that they undermine the discipline, let alone the opinion of historians, because no professional historian takes seriously the thesis of those who deny the Holocaust, just as no scientist takes seriously the snake oil or other treatments offered by modern charlatans. I believe it is right that it is discipline and the scientific community (in this case the humanists) who defend with solid arguments the validity or the unfoundedness of any idea. This must be done from the inside and not, by imposing a law, from the outside. I really don't think we can limit ourselves to legal research. This without exception. The second reason is a question of opportunity. I would really like to call you to this reflection. I see negationists as the charlatans of history. Like scientific charlatans, they engage in unfair behavior, usually advertising themselves on the skin and pain of others. They are people used to building themselves skillfully and instrumentally as uncomfortable truth bearers. They are able to sew on themselves the role of fake martyrs, and the proof is that, in countries where a law against denial was adopted, courts, television and newspapers acted unintentionally as a sounding board for these figures. We must ‐ believe - avoid to the maximum of playing their game, giving him the dignity of misunderstood martyrs. It comes to me to say: they present themselves with their false data and we will lie them, affirmation on affirmation, comma by comma, point by point, with the inexorable calm of data and method, and not with a law. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD and Senators Candiani and Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u81	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the debate that has taken place on this draft law has been extremely important, and perhaps, perhaps, it would need, even for our culture, an even more specific initiative. I therefore hope that this House, after the adoption of this bill, will be able to promote a common reflection, a debate and also a confrontation with historical research and with the community of historians. I say this because it is clear to everyone that the draft law before us, as it has been drawn up in the Commission for justice and has arrived in this Chamber, is able - in my humble opinion - to dissipate also some dangers and ambiguities that have been widely pointed out in the previous debate and also publicly. First of all, I would like to make it clear here - as President Palma has already done at the end of the general debate - that a new crime is not introduced, but that we are talking about Article 3 of the so-called Royal Law, as amended by the Mancino Act, by introducing certain aggravating factors, by restricting ourselves to punishing the incitement to criminals and by indicating exactly how it can be produced publicly and, therefore, under given conditions. Of course, I respect all opinions, because I know that the issue is very delicate, but in this way we are sheltered from what someone called the risk of the courtization of the historical debate or even of the historical lie that must be refuted on the historical level. I also believe that the new text introduced by the Commission is important, as it has further qualified the subject through an explicit quote from the Shoah. It is evident to all that the Holocaust has its own specificity and, unfortunately, as many of us consider it, it represents absolute evil. It has a uniqueness that cannot be forgotten or approved for anything else, otherwise - I say this quite clearly - it would really end up falling into the trap of negationism, whose goal is precisely to make the extermination of the Jews in Europe one of the many and equally atrocious war crimes. In fact, to this they have always targeted the left estimates and arithmetic calculations on which negationism is based. I do not know if some of you have been familiar with some of these texts, which report the attempt to prove that the calculations on the size of the concentration camps were all wrong, to deny the reality of the Holocaust. I would like to mention here, emphasizing the merit of the bill which explicitly appoints the Shoah, that this horror is not, of course, only in the number of victims, but precisely in the scientific nature of the extermination project, in the bureaucratic coldness with which it has been planned, organized and in the fact that it is not only, and only, a tragic manifestation and the epilogue of an anti-Jewish sentiment which, unfortunately, in history and centuries has been very frequent. It is the idea of extermination of a race. And I would like to recall here the existence, as well as those of the Jews, of the Roma concentration camps, in that it has been decided to arrive at the final solution, to exterminate as a race, with all the consequences that this has had in our country as well. I would like to remember what racial laws have been in Italy, and I want to do so not out of rhetoric or to deal more superficially with the issue. I also do this because, otherwise, it would not explain the apparent contradiction between the strenuous defence of freedom of expression - and I recall that, of course, the more democratic a society is the more able it is to tolerate even the most incredible opinions; fact confirmed to all of us a few weeks ago, after the massacre in the Parisian writing of "Charlie Hebdo" - and what seems to be a simple contradiction, that is, the choice to make criminally prosecutable what might appear only a freely expressed opinion. But we know exactly that's not the case. For this reason, the bill responds exactly at this point, as the Shoah, on the one hand, and war crimes, on the other, must represent an unhealed wound in the moral conscience of the world, a warning that cannot be debilitated to horror among many. The Shoah was the unimaginable that came true and that, if we lower the guard, it can happen again. Denying this reality, and therefore inciting to replicate that horror, is not a freedom of research or opinion, but a limit that cannot be exceeded. Those who deny, propaganda and exalt the Shoah and other war crimes, even trying to prove them in a scientific way, try to break down a wall that, despite everything, still protects our civilization from the shadows that once flooded it. It is, therefore, not a question of freedom of expression, but of implicit incitement to criminals, which is exactly what this bill reports. We are therefore going to vote on this measure which punishes the incitement to genocide only if it occurs publicly, and therefore aims to reach out to a great many people and to lead to a real crime. It is right that this should be the case because, if not, freedom of thought and opinion would really be sanctioned. I would also like to explain frankly why the SEL senators and many of the Mixed Group will vote in favour of the measure. It was the result of a debate, a precise and complex debate that led us to do a good job and, therefore, to give this country a law that does not just want to stigmatize and represent a moral warning. It is a very profound issue which concerns, as happened in other countries, the fact that we really want to pursue those who still today make of the denial, the Shoah or other war crimes, a real tool to try to make repeat in history the horror that we have experienced in the twentieth century. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u84	D'ASCOLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to speak on the symbolic and cultural value and moral significance of the Shoah problem, the propaganda of war crimes and the denial of such dramatic facts. There is, in fact, so much talk about it that the sense of modesty that must guide the intervention of every senator forbids us to return to themes not only extremely shared but that, if repeated in the same way, would eventually lead to a lowering not only of the level of the debate, but also of the attention of those who follow us. On the other hand, I am speaking on the more technical issues related to this subject, because perhaps it is possible to better understand not only the most important issues arising from the Commissions responsible for the formation of an acceptable legislative text, but also and above all the problems associated with the drafting of a text that I claim to the Group of the People's Area, to which I am honoured to belong, to have improved. It should be said, in fact, that the text originally proposed was totally unacceptable, as it neglected to consider not only the historical and cultural debate that is right, normal and necessary for it to develop around facts concerning events so dramatic for the international community, but even that which represents a historical fact in the formation of criminal rules relating to so-called crimes of opinion (that is, when the criminal legislator ends up sanctioning the manifestation of an opinion that could have not only political content, but also cultural and historiographic interests). Was it possible, in short, to think that historians would no longer be able to discuss any topic and that the judiciary would have to intervene to assess to what extent the historiographic debate was allowed and beyond what point should it even have been constituted as a crime? It is clear that we must be aware that this is a problematic rule, difficult to write, so much so that the first draft had exposed Parliament to that inevitable, but not entirely acceptable, solution of a return to the Commission of a text that could not even be presented. We must say this, because not all ideas that pass through the head can be qualified as good and, worse, not all ideas that pass through the head can even become the body of a legislative text. I then claim to prudence, reflection and intelligence the fact that today we are dealing with an acceptable text, as certainly was not the original text. In particular, I would like to stress the importance of having, in the meantime, affected the choice of location: we no longer have an autonomous crime, but an aggravating circumstance that presupposes an unlawful fact dating back to Law No. 654 of 1975, and therefore a proven rule. This aggravating factor, therefore, does not fit in an ambiguous and unknown context to the use of jurisprudential, but intervenes - I repeat - on a tested text. We have made an appropriate contribution - and this is due to the work done in the Commission by the rapporteur - to what was a manifest lack of the old legislative text which, in a sense, exposed it to ridicule, as well as to a sure judgment of unconstitutionality. They were punished, in that context, even inciting conduct that occurred not publicly. Thus family debate was also prohibited, the internal debate in those areas where certain opinions could not have affected fundamental legal goods precisely because it was impossible, in a certain sense, to spread in contexts capable of transposing subversive facts of incitement to the violation of criminal law, with consequences detrimental to public order. Today, at last, it is said that the manifestation of a thought, even if it is forbidden, is of criminal importance if it happens in public and, above all, we must carry out conducts of incitement and incitement to hatred, to facts of subversion, categories that our criminal law knows. It is not absolutely true, in fact, that these categories are unknown, because the crimes against the personality of the State, as against public order, are rich in elements of this kind. The amendments that Senator Giovanardi had proposed, of course, were aimed at further improving the legislative text, with an enrichment in terms of greater fiscality. They have not passed, but not for this People's Area manifests votes against the text. On the contrary, we are voting in favour of the very improvement that the appropriate work that we have stimulated in the Commission and its way of presenting itself to the House determines. Of course, I dare to say - but I do not think that any senator could think differently - that on hot issues concerning freedom of assessment, conscience and above all the free manifestation of thought, inevitably in some contexts it might be necessary that certain hypotheses, certain historical truths can also be revised in the light of certain solid emergencies, irrefutable and unplaceable within the criminal categories of the incitement to delinquere and the incitement to racial hatred, or other criminal forms of this kind. I therefore vote in favour of the Group of the People's Area and, at the same time, I say that it is still possible to respect dissident opinions on this subject, but that they are based on a cultural, critical or historiographical awareness. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u87	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, it will not take me time to explain in detail the reasons why the 5 Star Movement Group will vote in favour of this bill, because they have already been put forward by my group's colleagues and by the vast majority of the senators who have spoken in general debate and in explanation of vote. (Senators Giovanardi and D'Ascola talk to each other.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senators D'Ascola and Giovanardi, can we allow Senator Buccarella to continue the surgery? You can do the deepening elsewhere. Please, Senator Buccarella. D'ASCOLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). Ma'am, they're bothering me! BUCCARELLA (M5S). As I said, it will not take me time to explain in detail the reasons for our vote in favour, because everything has already been said. A final text has been reached which is certainly a good balance between the needs of freedom of thought, expression and historiographic research, above all, and the right sanction, formulated as aggravating, for all cases in which the denial of criminal events (such as genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and the Shoa itself) can have a significant criminal character and, therefore, deserve sanctions, when statements or assertions, made publicly, constitute an incitement. We are, therefore, all in agreement and there is little to add to what has already been said. We cannot, however, miss the opportunity to stress and remind everyone in this House - and even outside - of the expressions of praise expressed by almost all political formations today on this text which is largely shared - if this is happening and can happen - what has happened in the months and years that have been going on in the course of Parliament's work. I recall that, in October 2013, the Senate Justice Commission had been placed in the uncomfortable condition of having to legislate in a deliberative forum. This means - and I say this for those who were to listen to us outside this House - that that bill on negationism, which was absolutely unacceptable, could be amended with amendments in a hurry imposed on the Senate for external coincidences: the anniversary of the raking in the ghetto of Rome took place and for a few days Priebke's funeral had been held, with all the events even of public order. Therefore, the Justice Commission was put under pressure to resign, essentially within 30 minutes, by formulating and voting on amendments in the deliberating session, what would be the pronunciation of the Senate on a bill that - let us remember - came to us from the House in a frankly unacceptable and worrying formulation. In fact, it punished anyone who had denied the existence of crimes of genocide, against humanity and war, however, affecting the penal code and, therefore, a regulatory system intended to be, by its very nature, clear, concise and easily understandable. If we are here today and listen to the parties of majority and opposition in favour of this text, let us remember that probably - indeed without any doubt - this is possible because only one political group in the Commission Justice in the Senate opposed that deliberating seat. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Otherwise, today we would probably be here to comment on newspaper articles with cloths or to face an extraordinary mailbombing by the civil or academic world for a law fired in a hasty and very bad way. That political group was the 5 Star Movement - it is useless to say - that is, the political movement that, with all the Prudences you want to have in expressing judgments on a political action, had and continues to have a pragmatic approach, escaping the ideological exploitations that - I believe I understood - even a few minutes ago animated a debate between two colleagues on my left. This pragmatic approach and also the freedom, which the 5 Star Movement has, to be able to take a position on sensitive topics such as these pagans. Therefore, it is good to remember that this happened thanks to us. On the occasion it is also appropriate to recall, by doing a backward analysis, like that day (it was October 16, 2013), by doing a search on the Internet for terms such as "denialism," "deliberating" and "justice," there were press articles that talked about the daring move of the 5 Star Movement that put obstacles to the dismissal of a law that had to be done, because the next day it had to be said that the Senate had passed a law against denialism. This is to give satisfaction and response to those who, legitimately from his point of view, expected a strong political signal against racist, xenophobic, discriminatory and instrumentalizing expressions of events such as the Shoah in that case, but in general against any kind of crime against humanity and war. That day - it has to be recognized and it must be remembered - have spoken very authoritative leaders and, for the article I have submitted, I refer to representatives of the Democratic Party and the People of Freedom of the time. Senator Finocchiaro, with reference to our opposition in a deliberative forum, spoke of a 5 Star Movement that is deprejudiced and menfreghist who opposes everything, even what can serve the country and reforms of all kinds, as economic measures and so on. The parent Renato Schifani spoke the following words: On the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the raking of the ghetto, the approval in the deliberating session would have taken on an extraordinary symbolic value. And he went on to say, "I'm sorry that even a bill of such great civilization becomes an instrument of an incomprehensible political struggle." Today we are very pleased to have heard expressions of praise and sharing also from those political groups from which we expect softly, but with the determination that has always marked us, a word of apology and recognition of one of the many cases in which we have demonstrated that the ideological and instrumentalizing approach, on the one hand or on the other, renders a bad service to this country and to parliamentary activity. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That concludes, possibly awaiting a response to the wish expressed on behalf of the entire Group of which I am honoured to be a member, and declaring my vote in favour of the bill. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u90	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). On 27 January, the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz extermination camp by Soviet troops arrived that very day was commemorated. This date has been chosen since 2000 to recall, as a whole, the monstrous complex act of the Shoah, the extermination of the Jews in Europe by the Nazi regime and also by other countries that collaborated with it. On that date, I was told by a friend, present at Auschwitz for the memorial, that ten years ago the survivors were 1,500, while this year only 300. It is evident that, as time passes, numbers are bound to drop again. Many of them, despite their advanced age, continue to go to schools, attend meetings, and witness directly to the events that have taken place. We cannot, however, think that they will be able to do so for a long time or that many can do so. It is, therefore, important to mark a certain point and give a testimony of what has happened, and that has occurred precisely in the classrooms where racial or rather racist laws were passed in 1938. It was a royal decree-law issued on 17 November, approved unanimously in the House on 14 December 1938 and here, in the Senate, on 20 December, with some dissenting votes. These laws were later removed not only by a royal decree during the war, but above all in their foundation from our Constitution, from the values upon which our Republic is founded. This is the justification for highlighting the Shoah and specifically mentioning it among the various war crimes and genocides, which can be included in the articles mentioned in the text of the law that we are about to approve, which establishes the International Criminal Court. What we are about to approve is a rule that does not in any way reduce freedom of research or freedom of opinion. It is a matter of introducing an attack on crimes of incitement to hatred and violence for racial, religious and ethnic reasons, which are already punished today by a law originated in 1975 and then modified in 1993, which at the time took the name of the Mancino law, by the then Minister of the Interior. There is no limitation to historical research. Even the most extreme and frankly unreasonable views of historical research can be expressed. However, incitement to hatred and violence cannot be implemented, using as an instrument the denial of the Shoah or other comparable crimes, as contained in the law establishing the International Criminal Court. On this level, I believe it is worth repeating that the wording of the text, since it refers to the law establishing the International Criminal Court, refers to crimes that have been judged by the International Criminal Court itself. We do not want to delegate to an Italian magistrate the possibility to determine whether this concrete fact (true, established or reported as such) has actually happened, but it is a matter of applying this rule to the episodes that have been judged by the International Criminal Court. I believe that we are doing a positive and proper act. Elsewhere, Memory Day is also called "memory and repentance." It is always the same state entity. Of course, we were at a time when there was the fascist regime, there was no democracy and neither the House nor the Senate were elected by anyone, but unfortunately they represented, from a legal point of view, our nation. I think it is necessary to mark this date. We would have liked to have adopted this rule in a number of places by 27 January last, on the occasion of which I have already spoken. For the calendar reasons that we all know we can only get there today, with a good text, on which we have worked a lot. And I thank all those who have helped to achieve this result. I believe that, in some ways, it is even better that we work on this text today, which is not an anniversary or a fixed date, but simply the duty that Parliament has every day to make good laws that serve citizens, who do not limit their freedom, but who help us to be a more civilized nation and to defend ourselves from those who still deny that monstrosity today. I believe that all colleagues have received messages from a certain organization (which I do not quote to not advertise it), which started with legal reasoning, and maybe even historical, and then finish (it needs to flow the message to the end) saying that the Shoah is an economic and historical scam. Of course, even if an opinion is supported by people who have unacceptable ideological foundations, it remains the right to express them. But certainly with this finale the opinions presented were marked in a certain way. I believe that we are doing a positive thing today. Forza Italia will vote in favour. There will probably be dissenting votes (I hope not). Very well: it is precisely the testimony that it is a free decision. It is even better not to repeat the unanimity that took place on December 14, 1938. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and the Senators Amati and Valentini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u93	LUMIA (PD). Mr President, we are about to write a good page of the parliamentary and democratic life of our country. It has been pointed out that, in 1938, the Senate also contributed to the approval of racial laws. Today, in 2015, we help to characterize our country as a mature and advanced democracy. We all pose the problem of how to fight racial hatred, how to defeat anti-Semitism, how to ensure that negationism does not mature in our societies and even in the consciences of the new generations. We have all shared the idea that the main way is cultural and, therefore, research, persuasion and the ability to mature an open conscience in the new generations, able to confront diversity and not to lose the complex thread of memory. I think that precisely on the cultural challenge the country must give the best of itself: on the cultural challenge we must invest energy and resources, feeling it as the challenge of the challenges. Colleagues, we are about to face and resolve the node of the vision of a country that we must have in order to get the best out of the current crisis. It is certainly the vision of democracy and society that we must cultivate for the future, in order to ensure that our country is among the most advanced in the fight against the great crimes against humanity, the Shoah and racial persecution that still serpents in societies today. I think that in this great vision of the country the cultural resource must take over. At the same time we must recognize with great intellectual honesty that, while we are questioning the cultural path to be offered to the new generations, to our society, to Europe, to the international community, violent acts of anti-Semitism are growing. The facts we all know have been mentioned: the facts of Paris, those of Brussels, those that even affected children in the Toulouse school. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, there is a risk of becoming addicted to the many small but very serious acts that are consumed every day in Italy, France and Europe. In our country these acts have also been valued: think, dear colleagues, that they were 88 in 2014 and already 13 in 2015, while in France there were hundreds and hundreds of anti-Semitism acts that preceded the events of Paris and that are continuing to manifest themselves after those events. That is why the international community has set itself two objectives. Firstly, there is a need for cultural intervention. In 2005 the UN established the International Day of Memory, while Italy did so already in 2000, choosing the date of liberation of Auschwitz, ensuring that that memory and memory did not become abstract, ethereal, dare I say ideological, but instead were incarnate, incarnate - let me use this expression - in the pain and tragedy consumed in the extermination camps. For this reason, Europe and the international community on that side ripen and grow among the thousand difficulties and contradictions that anti-Semitism acts continue to produce. The international community has asked us, however, to take another measure, which many countries have already done. Denialism must be regarded as a crime and many countries have already set out in this direction: Germany, France and Spain have been mentioned. In any case, there are many European countries that have made this choice, countries with a great liberal and democratic tradition, as emerged in the debate, which also considered it necessary to intervene in a specific way, defining a particular criminal characteristic in order to strike at negationism. We made another choice: we wondered whether we should take this path in our country or whether we should take another route instead. 12:00 p.m. (Lumy followed). There has been a great debate in this House. We thought it was necessary to find a solution consistent with our legal-cultural tradition, which was able to avoid the possibility of even touching and touching the freedom of opinion of the citizens, the ability, the desire and the freedom of research of our historians. We have made a choice and have incardinated negationism within a measure that affects not only the negationism of the Shoah but also that of the great crimes perpetrated against humanity within the solid legal tradition of our country. That is why we have spoken about the 1975 Act and the 1993 Decree-Law. Colleagues, we have arranged for propaganda to be considered an assault and have brought this crime back to the typology defined by the International Court, ensuring that there was an explicit and not surreptitious call in the law. In fact, it is clear that propaganda, public incitement and public incitement are affected when they are based, in whole or in part, on the denial of the Shoah or crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, as defined by Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court, which, among other things, was ratified by law of 1999. Therefore, there is no domestic justice that rises in the morning and identifies its war crime, its crime against humanity. No, there is an International Court that sets out the parameters according to which war crimes against humanity are defined and we, within these realities, have also identified the Shoah of these behaviors that must be hit with determination, courage and severity. We have done this by ensuring that the possibility of hitting those conducted, even in a public way, is included in the 1975 law. In the laws of 1975 and 1993 the size of advertising was not understood, so even in the private context those behaviors, in the end, could be sanctioned. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, a serious technical work has been carried out, a real work of comparison, we have managed to find a broad parliamentary convergence and today we can say, head-on, to Italy, to the country and to the new generations: we are a democracy a little more mature, because we have given the possibility to the deportees who survived to see recognized this splendour of dignity that we offer them today. But let's also say that for the future war crimes, crimes against humanity, the denial of the Shoah will no longer belong to our history and when these crimes are used to incite hatred, to produce violence, they are not a cultural instrument and the penal code will be the main instrument of intervention. Colleagues, this is a nice moment, a beautiful page of history that the Senate and all of us can be proud of. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u95	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u96	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I agree with what Senator D'Ascola said about all the progress and improvements that the wording of this text has had in the Commission and in this House today. The restrictive argument that has been raised by many colleagues is very effective: there is no introduction of a new crime, there is no crime of opinion, which would by its very nature be illiberal, there is only the aggression of something already foreseen. But if this means that this provision belongs to the family of manifest laws, laws that think that taking action on criminal matters takes steps forward and write beautiful pages. This was never my idea. Of course, I am not a negator, but unlike others, my concerns about anti-Semitism, about racism that has made progress, I had to express them to the United Nations Assembly when it prevailed, well over 35 years ago, perhaps at the initiative of the then Secretary Waldheim, a resolution that said that Zionism, that is, the national ideology of the Israeli State, was an odious form of racism. I have never heard such concerns from those who have spoken in this House with an exception: today, in this House, the then head of the State, Giorgio Napolitano, said that there are forms of anti-Zionism that are forms of genuine anti-Semitism. I hope that Senator Giovanardi is not right in predicting that ping-pong ball that could turn against the Jewish people, but what has emerged is not enough for me to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u98	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u99	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I believe that the problem that this draft law is trying to address is extremely serious and I therefore welcome the fact that Parliament has been so committed to dealing with it. At the same time, however, I do not think it is the penalization of opinion in any way - among other things bland, for obvious reasons of guarantee of respect for thought - the way to solve this problem, rather requiring an important educational effort that this Government is not actually making. In fact, the public service that should oversee the education of generations and the dissemination of knowledge, that is, the school, has been and goes to be increasingly penalized: the hours of humanistic teachings are reduced, which are the ones in which these issues should be discussed, giving awareness to citizens. Frankly, an approach according to which we do not educate our fellow citizens about what the Shoah has been and what state violence against minorities means and then we pursue those who spread a mephitic doctrine for which certain events have not been, it seems politically hypocritical. It is an approach that tends to hide its positive action behind a punitive attitude that, among other things (as many colleagues have pointed out), runs the risk of sanctifying to their followers those who seek to spread negationist doctrines. For these reasons, we Senators of the Italian component Work in the Corso del Gruppo Misto will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u101	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u102	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I repeat that I personally cannot accept the equalisation, in this bill, of the Holocaust with other hundreds of cases, which go as far as war crimes, which have nothing to do with this tragedy of history, unique and hope unrepeatable, from which we started. Nor do I accept the question of the lawfulness of propaganda of well-founded ideas - my colleague Senator Compagna recalled that Zionism has been called racist - and therefore that an extensive application of the bill can be given to strike not incitement to hatred, but mere propaganda of ideas. Who will determine what are the ideas that may be forbidden? The sentences of the International Criminal Court, as Senator Lumia recalled, that are concerned with hundreds of cases that reach the war crimes and that compared to the Holocaust have a much smaller gravity. As Senator Lumia explained, once these sentences have been issued, no one can venture to support different arguments and my concerns with regard to Israel, from this point of view, increase. Finally, I am referring to the intervention of Senator Cattaneo, who said things that I think were right. I read in the newspapers this morning that those who contested the Day of Remembrance said that putting Titine and neo-fascist communists on the same level does not correspond to the historical truth or said "I go out to play foibe balls" instead of being at the commemoration: those who make statements of this kind are an idiot, who must be fought on the level of dialectic and historical truth, and not on the level of criminal denunciation. Therefore, while boasting and attaching to the work that we have put in place in this year a profound modification of the text - which a year ago, when it was presented to the Commission in the deliberative session, was really improbable - for these basic reasons, contesting the equalization of the Holocaust to other hundreds or thousands of cases, I will vote against the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u105	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u106	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u107	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1345, 11, 1072, 1283, 1306 and 1514. The rapporteurs, Senator Albertini and Mr Sollo, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Albertini.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u108	Mr President, draft law No 1345, already adopted by the House of Deputies and adopted as a basic text by the Commissions, contains provisions on crimes against the environment. In a nutshell, the measure before the Assembly, which consists of two articles, in confirming the violations provided for by the environmental code inserts in the penal code a new title, dedicated to crimes against the environment, and introduces within this title the crimes of environmental pollution, environmental disaster, traffic and abandonment of material of high radioactivity, impediment to control. It stipulates that the penalties envisaged may be reduced for those who cooperate with the authorities before the definition of the judgment, with the so-called active repentance, obliges the sentenced person to recovery and - where possible - to the restoration of the status of the places, provides for the doubling of the time limits for the prescription of the crime for the new crimes and coordinates the discipline of the administrative responsibility of the legal persons in case of environmental crimes. During the examination in the contact person, significant changes were made to the text coming from the Chamber through the approval of numerous amending proposals. Moving on to the analysis of the individual provisions, article 1, paragraph 1, of the bill, introduces in the book second of the penal code the "Title VI -bis of crimes against the environment" composed of nine new articles. The Title includes four new crimes, beginning with the crime of environmental pollution. Article 425-bis, paragraph 1, punishes with the imprisonment from two to six years and with the fine from 10,000 to 100,000 euros anyone abusively causes a compromise or a lasting deterioration of the pre-existing state of water or air, or extended or significant portions of the soil and subsoil (first paragraph) or of an ecosystem, of biodiversity, including agrarian, flora or fauna (second paragraph). This case was incisively modified in the course of the examination in the referee, following the adoption of amendment 1.85 (text two), tabled by the rapporteurs. The text originally approved by the Chamber of Deputies provided, in fact, that the offensive events of the environmental good, specified in its various components, should be caused by violation of laws, regulations or administrative provisions specifically aimed at protecting the environment and the observance of which constitutes, in itself, administrative or criminal offence. On the other hand, the amending proposal has replaced this statement with a brief reference to the abuse of conduct. In this way, by abolishing the reference to conduct constituting an offence or an administrative offence, they wished to overcome the questions which this reference involved, respectively, in terms of the competition of offences or of the apparent competition of criminal rules or, in the case of administrative offence, in terms of the applicability of Article 9 of Law No 689 of 24 November 1981. The Commissions also intervened on the concepts of impairment and deterioration, giving prominence to the only lasting alterations of the pre-existing state. The approved text also limits the criminal relevance to the only lasting alterations of the existing state of extensive or significant portions of soil or subsoil, as well as of an ecosystem. Paragraph 2 provides for an aggravated hypothesis when the crime is committed in a protected natural area or subject to specific constraints, or a damage of protected animal or plant species. Paragraph 3, introduced in the course of the examination in the referent, then previews a ulterior hypothesis aggravated when from the fact comes a danger of compromise or deterioration. The reason for the amendment was to transpose the demands of Community law, anticipating the threshold of punishableness. However, the provision, as formulated, raises more than one question. Firstly, it is not clear how a danger of impairment or deterioration can be posed. Secondly, since this is an aggravated hypothesis, the rule ends, paradoxically, to sanction the mere danger of environmental pollution in a more serious way than the actual environmental damage. Finally, a further case of real danger to the lives and safety of persons has been introduced, sanctioned with penalties modulated according to the progressiveness of the aggression to the protected legal object (comma 4). Article 452-b regulates the crime of environmental disaster and, taking up the wish expressed by the Constitutional Court regarding the typicalization of an independent crime figure, punishes with imprisonment from 5 to 15 years anyone who abusively causes an environmental disaster. Again, in order to avoid the risk of possible abolition of crimes, the Commissions have replaced the original formula in violation of laws, regulations or administrative provisions specifically aimed at protecting the environment and whose non-compliance in itself constitutes administrative or criminal offence by the most concise phrase "abusely." A safeguard clause has also been introduced outside the cases provided for in Article 434 concerning the collapse of buildings or other arson disasters. The concept of environmental disaster, largely modified in the course of the examination by an amendment by the rapporteurs (1,131 text 3), is defined as: an irreversible alteration of the equilibrium of an ecosystem; that is, an alteration of the equilibrium of an ecosystem whose elimination is particularly costly and attainable only by exceptional measures; that is, the offense to the public safety determined with reference to the diffusion capacity of the harmful effects of the conduct. The Commissions together, in confirming the original aggravating factor, expected when the crime of disaster is committed in a protected area, similar to the crime of environmental pollution, in an attempt also in this case to anticipate the threshold of punishableness, have considered to introduce a further aggravated hypothesis when from the fact comes a danger of compromise or deterioration. In this regard, it is worth noting the criticalities already revealed with regard to the crime of environmental pollution, as well as the erroneous reference to factual situations (compromise or deterioration) that contribute to defining the case of environmental pollution (as referred to in Article 452 -bis), but not that of the crime in question to which the attack relates. The crime of trafficking and abandonment of high radioactivity and ionizing radiation material (Article 452 -quinquies) punishes with imprisonment from 2 to 6 years and the fine from 10,000 to 50,000 euros any abusively - or in any case in violation of laws, regulations or administrative provisions - it acquires, receives, transports, imports, supplies, holds or transfers material of high radioactivity and ionizing radiation or, containing such material, abandons it or disposes of it illegitimately (first paragraph). In this connection, it is worth noting the desirability of assessing, in the same way as other environmental crimes, the use of the engraving or in any case in breach of laws, regulations or administrative provisions. More generally - with regard to all the new offences introduced - it could also be considered whether to replace the adverb "abusely" with "illegally" (in other words, with regard to the abandonment of waste). Such a solution would be in line with that part of the jurisprudence (see Criminal Cassation Section III - judgment of 6 October 2005, n. 40827), which already constitutes the crime of illicit trafficking of waste not only with regard to totally abusive landfills, but also in relation to those authorized ones that in part carry out their illegal economic activity. Compared to the original wording of the draft law, during the examination in the referent, the objective scope of application was extended also to traffic and the abandonment of ionizing radiation material. This is a danger offence, for which the second and third paragraphs provide for aggravating: the penalty has increased when the event of compromise or environmental deterioration occurs; if the fact results in a danger to the lives or safety of people, the penalty has increased to half. In this regard, with regard to paragraph 2, it could be considered whether to resume the wording provided for in paragraph 1 of Article 452 -bis. The crime of impediment of control (Article 452 -sexies) punishes with imprisonment from 6 months to 3 years, provided that the fact no longer constitutes serious crime, anyone prevents, hinders or evades the activity of environmental supervision and control and safety and hygiene of the work or compromises the results. During the examination, the scope of the standard was extended to prevent occupational health and safety activities, which were originally not covered. The impediment must be achieved by denying or hindering access to the places, i.e. by artificially changing the state of the places. This case is not merely a corollary to the provisions of the preceding Articles, because it is intended to be applied whenever sampling or environmental verification is hindered. Moreover, where the obstacle is, for example, by mechanical means, the confiscation of such obstacles must be ordered under Article 452-novies. Compared to the four new cases, only two can be committed by fault: the crime of environmental pollution (Article 452-a) and the crime of environmental disaster (Article 452-b). In such cases, under the new Article 452-c, as amended by the contact person, the penalties have decreased from one third to two thirds. No amendments were made by the Commissions meeting with regard to the new Article 452-f, which provides for aggravating circumstances in the case of the commission of new crimes against the environment in association form. On the other hand, the Joint Commissions intervened on the discipline of the operative repentance referred to in the new Article 452-g. The provision, as amended, provides for a reduction from half to two thirds of the penalties against those who work to prevent the criminal activity from being brought to further consequences, or it concretely helps the police authority or the judicial authority in the reconstruction of the facts, in the identification of the authors and in allowing the subtraction of resources relevant to the commission of crimes or of those who, before the declaration of opening of the debate at first instance, ensure the safety and the clean-up and, if possible, the restoration of the status of the places (first paragraph). In this regard, it would be appropriate to reword the rule in such a way as to take account of the assumptions in which, by reason of the use of alternative rites, the opening of the debate is not formally envisaged. The new second paragraph of the article introduces a cause of exclusion of punishable conduct as referred to in Article 452-c. If, in order to carry out such activities, the defendant requests the suspension of criminal proceedings, the court may grant a maximum of one year, during which the period of limitation is suspended (third paragraph). The provision on industrious repentance is intended to apply to new crimes against the environment (except, of course, for manslaughter), to the crime of association to criminal (non-mafia) aimed at the commission of an environmental crime, as well as to the crime of activities organized for the illicit trafficking of waste (Article 260 of the Environmental Code). Closely linked to the changes made to the new article 452-g is the introduction of the new paragraph 2 of Article 1 of the draft law. This paragraph amends Article 257 of the environmental code, in the matter of reclamation of the sites, limiting the scope of the condition of non punishableness provided for in the law only to criminal offences. The last two provisions of the new Title VI-a intervene on mandatory confiscation and restoration of the status of the places. In particular, Article 452-novies provides that, in the event of a conviction or plea for one of the new environmental crimes, as well as for association with criminals (as common as mafia) aimed at the commission of environmental crimes, the judge must order the confiscation of the things that constitute the product or profit of the crime or that served to commit it (first paragraph); if the confiscation of the property is not possible, the judge orders the confiscation by equivalent, identifying the assets on which to proceed on which the sentenced person has the availability also for interposed person. In relation to this forecast, it should be noted that there is a need for an amendment aimed at excluding the confiscation of property belonging to persons outside the crime. In the course of the examination in the referent has been added a further paragraph to article 452-novies, which introduces an obligation of destination of the confiscated goods: these in fact must be put in the availability of the competent public administration and bound to the use for the reclamation of the places. Article 452-decies, not amended in the referee, provides that, in the event of a conviction or plea for one of the new environmental crimes, the court must order the recovery and, where technically possible, the restoration of the status of the places, placing the costs for such activities at the expense of the sentenced person and the legal persons obliged to pay the fines in the event of insolvency of the former. In this regard, it is appropriate to provide for more detailed rules on the procedure for the restoration of places, possibly also by referring back to the provisions of the environmental code which already provide for such an institution with regard to the offences covered by it. Also in the matter of confiscation, similar to that referred to in article 452-novies - and not subject to modification - is inserted in article 260 of the environmental code, in relation to the commission of the crime of activities organized for the illicit traffic of waste (article 1, paragraph 3, of the bill), while paragraph 4 of article 1 of the bill inserts such crime provided by the environmental code also in the catalog of crimes for which the confiscation of unjustified values is allowed. The article 1, paragraph 5, of the draft law novella, then, article 32-c of the penal code, relative to the cases in which the sentence follows the inability to contract with the public administration. This provision was amended in the course of the examination in the referee with the inclusion in the catalog of the crimes provided for therein as well as the new crimes of environmental pollution, environmental disaster and traffic and abandonment of high radioactivity and ionizing material and radiation, including the crime of preventing the control and of the crime of activities organized for the illicit trafficking of waste. No changes have been made to paragraph 6 of Article 1 of the bill, which announces article 157 of the penal code, providing for the doubling of the limitation periods for all four new crimes introduced by the bill. The Commissions then intervened on paragraph 7 of Article 1 of the draft law, which in its original wording introduced in the implementing provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure Article 118-b, according to which the prosecutor must give notice to the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor of the initiation of investigations on the hypothesis of environmental pollution, environmental disaster, traffic and abandonment of high radioactivity material, as well as organized activities for the illicit trafficking of waste. On the other hand, the Commissions considered that the existing Article 118a on the coordination of investigations should be supplemented by a similar obligation, excluding the case referred to in Article 260 of the Environmental Code. No changes have been made to paragraph 8 of Article 1 of the draft law, which novels Legislative Decree n. 231 of 2001 extending the catalog of crimes presupposes the administrative responsibility of the institutions. The Commissions therefore considered it appropriate to abolish the original paragraph 8 of Article 1. This provision introduced into the Environmental Code a part VII which contained a sanctioning discipline for infringements of environmental law, i.e. those which did not cause or cause any actual damage or danger to the environment. Finally, Article 2 of the draft law regulates the entry into force of the law, establishing that it will enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Sollo.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u109	Mr President, I will be much shorter than my colleague Mr Albertini, given the extreme punctuality of his report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u110	Use all the time you need, Senator Sollo.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u111	SOLLO, rapporteur. There is no point in repeating it. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are about to debate today, the introduction of environmental crimes into the penal code, is one of the most important steps in a reform process aimed at ensuring adequate protection and greater protection of environmental goods which, being of a public nature, belong to the community and not to the individual and for this reason have been the subject of over-exploited and uncontrolled exploitation. Not only that, his approval would allow us to take a decisive step in defining the model of development that we want for our country. The failure and contradictions of the model adopted to date are evident, even more so in this context of serious economic crisis. For decades, the economic reasons for protecting the public's health and protecting the environment have been advanced. In addition, the lack of an effective system of laws in this area has done nothing but favour the most unscrupulous entrepreneurs, but above all criminal organisations. The eco-processes are currently managed as simple violations of the civil code and are therefore the first to undergo the time of law. Demonstrating environmental damage is complicated: expert opinions and counter-perices are carried out, long investigations and battles in court and in the meantime responsibilities are removed from the prescription. The introduction of this crime in the penal code would allow more in-depth investigations to be carried out, using more effective tools including telephone and environmental interceptions. The numerous hearings have also shown that very often the eco-reactors are not only spy crimes of more serious situations linked to the trafficking of arms and drugs. But not only that: their association with the phenomena of corruption in public administration is increasingly recurring. In fact, according to the latest data of the report Ecomafia 2014, the incidence of the number of environmental illicits grows especially in the four regions with traditional mafia presence, reached 47 percent with my region, Campania, marked by the drama of the land of fires, always in the first place of the national ranking. In this regard, allow me to remind Michele Liguori, about a year after his death, and to pay a decent homage also on behalf of the whole Senate and the Democratic Party, to the Acerra vigilante who had made the fight against the ecomafia the commitment of his life. [[Applause]] Only with an effective fight against the various forms of environmental crime will it be possible to give a green turn to the future development of Italy, relaunching our economy under the sign of efficiency, innovation and sustainability. A path that our country must undertake through history and vocation starting from the protection of quality and the enhancement of our agriculture and our historical and cultural excellences. In this regard, it should be noted that the draft law aims to supplement the legislation on the protection of the environment by implementing the principle of environmental protection, repeatedly reaffirmed by the Constitutional Court and the Court of Cassation, allowing us to adapt to the Community directives which had long suggested to the Member States the introduction of new criminal cases in their respective criminal systems. The examination of the commissions gathered environment and justice, focused on the text already approved by the Chamber of Deputies on 26 February 2014, also on the basis of the indications emerged from the intense cycle of auditions carried out, to which took part the attorney of Gela, the attorney of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, the lawyer of the State of Venice, the department of jurisprudence of the University of Ferrara, ISPRA, the AssoArpa, Confindustria, NETWORK Imprese Italia, the association Democratic Medicine, the WWF, Legambiente, Fare Ambiente and the League antivivissection has brought important correctives to the provision. In Book II of the Criminal Code, Title VI- bis of environmental crimes is introduced, which provides for cases of environmental pollution (Article 452-a), environmental disaster (Article 452-b), accidentous crimes against the environment (Article 452-c), traffic and abandonment of high radioactivity material (Article 452-d), impediment to control (Article 452-e), aggravating circumstances (Article 452-f), active repentance (Article 452-g), confiscation (Article 452-novies) and restoration of the status of the places (Article 452- decies). On the basis of the rewording carried out by the Commissions, environmental pollution is punished with imprisonment from 2 to 6 years and fine from 10,000 to 100,000 euros, in the event of abusively causing compromise or lasting deterioration of the state of water or air or extensive or significant portions of soil or subsoil. The compromise or deterioration may relate to the ecosystem, to the biodiversity - including agricultural biodiversity - of the flora or fauna. The penalty shall be increased if the case relates to a protected or restricted natural area or if it is produced to the detriment of protected animal or plant species. Anyone who is abusively causing an environmental disaster is punished with imprisonment from 5 to 15 years. This case occurs in the event of irreversible alteration of the equilibrium of an ecosystem or in the event of alteration of the equilibrium of an ecosystem whose elimination is particularly costly and attainable only by exceptional measures or, finally, in the event of offense to the public safety determined with reference to the diffusion capacity of the harmful effects of the conduct. Even in the case of the environmental disaster, the damage of protected or restricted areas is an aggravating factor. If environmental pollution or environmental disaster are committed by fault, the penalties shall be reduced from one third to two thirds. Trafficking and abandonment of high radioactivity material and ionizing material and radiation is punished by imprisonment from 2 to 6 years and fine from 10,000 to 100,000 euros. It aggravates the danger of soil damage or deterioration of water or air, as well as of the ecosystem and its biodiversity. These are aggravating circumstances for the assumption that criminal cases are brought into existence by an association with criminals (Article 416 of the Criminal Code) or by a mob association (Article 416 bis of the Criminal Code). In the event of active repentance, reductions in penalties are provided for in favour of the person who tries to prevent the criminal activity from causing greater damage or in the case where he provides for the safety, the reclamation and, where possible, the restoration of the status of the places. In addition, during the examination in the contact person, the part relating to the sanctioning of administrative and criminal offences in the field of environmental protection was removed in order to meet specific requests made by some prosecutors who took part in the hearing. Mr President, in conclusion, it is a text of law which seeks to respond in a balanced and coordinated way to a request for greater protection, severity and certainty of the penalty, so that events such as that of the Eternit in Casale Monferrato, of the former Montedison with the mega dump of Bussi and not least the ILVA in Taranto, for which no one has been called to pay, never occur again. The long work done in the Commission, both by my colleagues in the majority and the opposition, to whom I thank all of you, has enabled us to come to this House with a substantial and very broad consensus on the text and on the further adjustments to be made before it is finally approved here in this House. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u112	I declare the general debate open, which will begin at the afternoon sitting. I therefore refer you to the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u115	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to address you directly. Do you remember the day you arrived on the highest floor of this building? It was March 16, 2013, almost two years ago, and among the many things he said in his inaugural speech there was also this phrase, taken up by all the agencies: I dream that this House will become a glass house and that this choice will infect all the other institutions. I had not voted for her, but when I listened to her say these words, I fully shared them and thought that they could be the words of a true spokesman for the citizens. I heard, that is, in that sentence, a sincere impulse, to make this Senate the home of good politics and to make our work transparent and more and more accessible for the citizens who are out of here. But now it has been two years and I have to say something, Mr President, to remind you of what you yourself said on that occasion and to draw your attention and that of the whole House to the fact that the work of the Senate Commissions as a rule and by regulation continues to be unpublic. Citizens who wish to take an interest in the work of the Commissions are not allowed to know who takes part in the meetings, the presences, the details of the votes, but above all what is said. The gears of the legislative machine are not visible to the citizens and it is certainly not easy to summarize what is said during the work. We need to think about this and make it a priority because such a situation can only further widen the balance between politics and citizens. A solution is necessary and must be put in place as soon as possible in this parliamentary term. To remedy this, the solution is as simple as iso-resources: to provide for audio-video shooting for all Commission meetings, to be transmitted live or deferred on the digital channels or on the Senate's institutional site, as appropriate, as well as through audiovisual places in separate premises available to the public and the press. The Five Star Movement has long filed a proposal for reform, to which Mr Bertorotta is first a signatory, which goes in this direction. This is a measure that could be adopted in a short time and that would give an extraordinary result: to move from an opaque Senate to a transparent one. I therefore urge the concrete commitment of all the Groups to ensure that in a timely manner this proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, a decisive step in order to finally make the work of the Commissions public and accessible to citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u116	As you know, the work on the amendments to the Rules of Procedure has gone on to a certain extent and will be resumed as soon as possible taking into account your suggestions. There is already a proposal to that effect. The slowdown was more psychological than real because of the fact that there is a reform of the Senate that may also affect the change of regulations, as you know. So my position that you know is that, however, we have to operate for regulatory changes as if the Senate, as it is, should last forever. This is my position you know. We will take you back to the seat of the Board for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u119	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to remind the House of a very regrettable fact which is repeated systematically. On February 10th, the Day of Remembrance was established. In many cities of Italy events take place. The day of remembrance commemorates the tragedies and massacres of the foibe and the Julian-dalmatian exodus. In Trento, a city normally relatively quiet, a series of cultural parties and associations, including Brothers of Italy and CasaPound, were present to participate in an event. A peaceful procession had to take place to remember this date, instead violent clashes were not acceptable by social centers who wanted to prevent the demonstration even with some violence because paper bombs were used, fires broke out, sampietrini launched. The scene is always that time: hooded faces and unidentifiable covers. And what happened next is even more serious: pursuits, tampons and spurments with the machines, which could have involved other subjects present on the road unblamed. The focus of the issue is that there are groups that decide to disturb other people's political activities. These are subjects that, however, make little of political activity: perhaps the only activity that they put in place is to occupy property abusively, then loading the operating costs always on the public coffers, with acts of disobedience. On behalf of the League I must say that we have had to run into these obstacles of demonstrations several times. The League collects signatures to request a referendum and comes across these actions, with physical violence, as well as destruction of our banquets and gazebos. Mr President, our democracy is founded, by the liberation and approval of the Constitution, on the recognition of a series of freedoms, which were perhaps before called into question. One of the great is freedom of thought and freedom to manifest. It was a great conquest of the last century; our Constitution and the Italian order in fact allow the freedom of those who manifest peacefully. It is not possible that few subjects (fortunately there are not many) decide arbitrarily who can and who cannot manifest and do everything eventually to prevent it, especially with violent methods. What I am asking of you, Mr President, is a minimum condemnation of these violent incidents on the part of the House, although I must honestly say that the left has a responsibility, because it has always pampered this cultural area, which perhaps thought similar. Violence is such. Manifesting is legitimate and anyone can say what he believes; preventing expression by violent acts is not acceptable. If you consider making a small comment on this, I am grateful to you, Mr President. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u120	Thank you, Senator Divina. As you know, I have always supported the position that any violence, wherever it comes from, can be condemned. I think we can only agree on this, all of us.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u122	You have the floor for a few minutes, since we are at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u123	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, today 11 February, in addition to the celebration of Our Lady of Lourdes, we celebrate the anniversary of the Concordat, for which I think it can be magnanimous. We intend to bring to the attention of the House an issue, anticipating the Presidency's intention to present an act of inspection union with reference to the concrete situation of Poste Italiane spa and to what is happening throughout the national territory, but, in this case, as far as we are concerned, in the territory of Como, rather than in the territory of Varesotto or in Trentino itself, in short, a little everywhere. The Post Office has always been one of the principals of the State in the territory: in a municipality the carabinieri, the post office, the doctor, the pharmacist, are all figures and realities that have always made the country. On the other hand, we are witnessing, very quietly, the failure of that reference point that is the Post Office. I would like to remind you that for most of the population the post office is not simply a place to send a letter - an important service, however, because it allows the exercise of a fundamental right of citizens - but it is also the place where you go to retire - and I think of many older people - or to leave deposits. Unfortunately, a rationalization operation is underway that responds to market logics, which have moved the Post Office more towards the management of money, therefore finance, than service. On this we ask that the government respond and give certainty to the citizens. What is the rationality of all this? Are we talking about a service, that is, a part of the State close to the citizens, or simply something that is useful to put on the market shares of the same Post Office or the Deposit and Loan Fund that is behind us? We are concerned because we are witnessing the failure of a point of reference, as is happening in some municipalities: I think, for example, in the Province of Varese - my Province - to the municipalities of Bolladello, Malnate, Vergiate, Voldomino in Luinese. They are small realities, even of 1,000 inhabitants, in which services are managed together with other municipalities, but where the absence or loss of a reference point such as the post office means creating serious inconveniences to the population, and there is no Internet that can make up for this type of services. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u126	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, an article was published on "Il Sole 24 Ore" on 9 February in which the news of the Commissariat for the integrated procurement, i.e. the execution and implementation, of the cementification plant for radioactive liquid solutions (so-called "Cemex") is taken up again at the Eurex site in Saluggia, in the Province of Vercelli. The decree, signed by the Prefect Giuseppe Pecoraro, dates back to 22 January. Please note that the contract was awarded for 98 million euros in December 2012 by Sogin to the group led by Saipem, with Maltauro and the French company Areva. At the basis of the request for the DAC's commission, made in December 2014, there is the offence of auction disturbance, as rebuilt in a detailed way by the Milan gip based on the facts that are listed in the documentation prepared and disseminated by the DAC. In the decree signed by the prefect, two extraordinary directors are appointed and the extraordinary management of the contract is established, due to the strategic value, also for the safety and environmental profiles, underlying them for the definition of the works related to the Cemex plant, at the site Eurex of Saluggia, by virtue of the gravity of the facts subject to investigation and the particular requirements of protection of legality. The Sogin contract, says the DAC, has been disturbed by the suspects and its award is precisely the result of their illegal activity. Meetings were held with the representatives of Sogin, repeated contacts, which resulted in gifts, collusions and conditioning in favour of the above-mentioned public officials, and it was found that the partnership upset the tendering procedures and administrative procedures in order to condition the method of choice of the contractor at Sogin SpA, in favour of the Construction Company Giuseppe Maltauro, including the procedure relating to the contract awarded by Sogin SpA to the temporary grouping of companies Saipem (mandatory) and Maltauro (mandatory) ]. Before the award, a payment of 600,000 euros was agreed by Maltauro Enrico, in favour of Frigerio, Cattozzo and Grillo, at the time officials of Sogin. On the substance, with question 3-01530, at my first signature, the 5 Star Movement had already raised the issue and highlighted strong concerns about these aspects, asking the competent Ministers, in order to avoid the repetition of situations of conditioning that have occurred in the past and to ensure the need to safeguard the public interests protected, to carefully monitor the correct work of the Sogin, also with reference to the identification of the site of the technology park and the attached nuclear deposit. In view of the fact that nuclear legacy in Italy is subject to safety work in order to protect the health of citizens from possible radiological risks, we ask that we respond urgently to Question No 3-01530. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u127	I say that at 1 p.m. the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups is convened.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-388.ana.u128	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 5 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.58 p.m.
