ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 17.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u4	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the time limit of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 17.06).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u8	Dear colleagues, I am pleased to welcome President Giorgio Napolitano to our Assembly today when he returns to the Senate. [[Applause.]] After a full seven-year-old, in a period of great political confusion, two years ago many political forces saw in her the only safe point of reference and asked her to make herself available for a second term. The request was promptly received by her and, after the election, she supported for two more years the many burdens of the high office of Head of State. At this moment, when the country has returned to what you yourself called constitutional normality, as President of the Senate I am proud to welcome you to this Assembly, of course your wisdom, your long experience in the various roles you have held, as a servant of the State and of the institutions, will be of great enrichment for the debate and discussion of ideas, in the Senate, in Parliament and in the country. Good work, President Napolitano. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u11	NAPOLITANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am only speaking to thank you for your warm and generous words and to thank all colleagues for their welcome. I am honoured to return to this House and to this institution, which, however, will remain an essential and integral part of the Parliament of the Republic. I will work with you all so that future prospects are also a creative experience for all of us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u12	The Conference of Leaders approved the new timetable by a majority until 26 February. This afternoon and tomorrow's afternoon session will continue the discussion of the draft law on crimes against the environment and the trafficking of organs intended for transplantation. In the afternoon session of tomorrow, the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry will answer immediate questions under Rule 151- bis of the Regulation on measures for the protection of the dairy supply chain and on initiatives in the agricultural sector for Expo 2015. Next week the Assembly will return to meet again from the afternoon of Tuesday 17 February with the votes on the resignation presented by Senators Vacciano, Simeoni and Molinari; the continuation of the arguments not concluded and the discussion of the decree-law ILVA and development of Taranto. The examination of this measure will in any case begin in the Assembly from the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 18 February, even if it is not concluded in the Commission. In the week from 24 to 26 February will be examined the decree-law on the IMU exemption of agricultural land and the decree-law extending legislative terms, where approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The timetable also provides for the possible follow-up of unfinished topics and the discussion of draft legislation on corruption. On the afternoon of Thursday 26 February the question time will be held.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u13	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following integration to the program of the proceedings of the Senate for the months of January, February and March 2015: - Drawing of law n. 19 and related - Provisions on corruption, vote of exchange, fake budget and money laundering
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u14	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - in accordance with Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the new agenda for the Assembly's work from 11 to 26 February 2015: [[Wednesday, February 11 pom. h. 17-20 - Follow-up to draft law n. 1345 and related - Crimes against the environment (adopted by the Chamber of Deputies) - Follow-up to draft law n. 922 - Trafficking organs intended for transplantation Thursday 12 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 12 February pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy on: - measures for the protection of the dairy supply chain - initiatives in the agricultural sector for Expo 2015]] [[Tuesday 17 February pom. h. 16,30-20 - Votes on the resignation submitted by Senators Vacciano, Simeoni and Molinari (Vote by secret ballot by electronic procedure) - Following arguments not concluded - Drawing of law n. 1733 - Decree-Law n. 1, ILVA and development of Taranto (It falls on 6 March Wednesday 18 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 19 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 19 February pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to bill No 1733 (Decree-Law No 1, ILVA and the development of Taranto) will have to be tabled by 5 p.m. on Friday 13 February. [[Tuesday 24 February pom. h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 1749 - Decree-Law n. 4, exemption IMU agricultural land (final vote by 25 February) (Scade on 25 March) - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 192, extension terms (Scade on 1 March) (Ove approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Eventually followed unconcluded arguments - Drawing of law n. 19 and related - Rules in the matter of corruption Wednesday 25 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 26 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 26 February pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] Amendments to draft law No 1749 (Decree-Law No 4, IMU exemption on agricultural land) should be tabled no later than 5 p.m. on Thursday 19 February. The deadline for tabling amendments to Decree-Law No 192 (Prorogata termini) will be set in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 19 and related rules on corruption will be set in relation to the Commission's work. Time distribution for discussion of bill No. 1733 (Decree-Law No. 1 - ILVA and development of Taranto) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 34' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. 3' M5S 47' AP (NCD-UDC) 47' Mixed 41' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 34' LN-Aut 33' GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI) 33' SCP 28' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1749 (Decree-Law No 4 - IMU Exemption of agricultural land) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 34' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. 3' M5S 47' AP (NCD-UDC) 47' Mixed 41' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 34' LN-Aut 33' GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI) 33' SCP 28' Dissententi 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Law No 192 - Extension of time limits) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 7' FI-PdL XVII 45' M5S 33' AP (NCD-UDC) 33' Mixed 29' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 25' LN-Aut 24' GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI) 24' SCP 20' Dissentienti 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u17	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, as you have said, the timetable has not been voted unanimously: we are the ones who have opposed it and we would also have an alternative timetable proposal. The reason for our opposition is very simple. You have decided that, exceptionally, it is possible to convene the Budget Commission and in the alternative the Commissions joined 10a and 13a for the analysis of Decree-Law No 1733 on Ilva because there is an urgency of the Government. It is never said, however, that the Commissions could be convened on Monday to do something else, such as the anti-corruption bill. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] One of the proposals to change the timetable that we are making, then, since there is so much good will and desire to get the Commissions to work, is not to limit ourselves only to the Commissions that are useful to the Government and the majority, but also to let the Commissions work that, for example, could give an answer to what Minister Orlando said, namely that we should have an anti-corruption bill by the end of February, even if it is not specified which year, if 2015 or 2016, then the doubt remains. The new President of the Republic also said that corruption is a serious problem and the President of the Court of Auditors also said so, as he says every year, because it is a serious problem, so why don't we take the opportunity, since the Commissions can meet at the same time? So this is the first proposal. Our second request is that the ILVA Decree-Law arrive in the Chamber one day later. As I said at the Conference of Leaders, I do not understand why you stand down for one day: just to show that you are stronger? I don't see the reason. In any case, the time at the House is so compressed that all you can do is put your trust, since you have no reputation to defend about trust, given how many you put in. At least, we avoid reasoning about the ILVA decree at night; two Commissions should work on it at night after two weeks of auditioning, you understand that something is wrong. Either we compress the hearings, or we make the Commission work, because after we have heard so much talk, we should quail and if the time of tightening does not exist, then it does not even make sense to convene the Commissions. We ask therefore to maintain the discussion of the resignation of Senators Vacciano, Molinari and Simeoni for Tuesday afternoon and to begin to incardinate the bill anticorruption, because the important thing is to give the signal to the nation that we begin to work on this. If necessary, we will continue the examination on Wednesday and Thursday, calmly, we will be able to bring the ILVA decree to the Chamber. It is a day: let's see if you have the courage, for one day, to put yourself on once again. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u20	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, you were not there yesterday, but I asked the House, before the 29 deaths of the Sicilian Channel, to imagine a hearing by the Minister of the Interior next week to take stock of what had happened. Since today we have discovered that there are not 29 dead, but unfortunately there are more than 300 dead, and since the Council of Europe this morning, perhaps more authoritatively than I and some other colleagues yesterday, has put all its doubts on the ineffectiveness of the Triton mission and the need to create another kind of mission in the Mediterranean Sea [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] I would once again ask that the presence of the Minister of the Interior be given an urgent timetable in the course of the next week. Otherwise, the Italian Parliament is truly complicit in a hallucinating affair which is taking place in our sea. I think we need to give an immediate answer. I was hoping that this request had already been scheduled for the Conference of Leaders. It has not been done and, then, I would ask once again for Mr Alfano to be present in this House next week, as soon as possible. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u21	If there are no other proposals, we shall proceed to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable of proceedings, put forward by Senator Martelli, aimed at anticipating the discussion of the bill on corruption. The Senate doesn't approve. [[Ironic applause from Senator Martelli]] MARTELLI (M5S). Long live corruption! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. With regard to the proposal of Senator De Cristofaro on the information of the Minister of the Interior, of course the Minister will have to be contacted in order to evaluate the availability. Does the government, in the person of Undersecretary Ferri, want to say anything about the possibility of contacting him? If the government agrees, we can avoid voting and try to find the government's willingness together.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u22	I thank Senator De Cristofaro for drawing the attention of the House and gives the opportunity to the Government to reaffirm not only its willingness to come to the House to report but also its great attention to a problem that we have been facing for some time now. On several occasions the Government has also asked the European Union for more attention to the protection of so many people who pass through our seas because, unfortunately, all of us are witnessing these great tragedies. We are aware of the importance, the sensitivity and the need to put measures in place together with the European Union and also to call for attention at European level. Italy, as always, will play its part with great dignity and commitment. Minister Alfano and the Government are willing to come to the House to find solutions that are effective to avoid these situations that sadden everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u23	I think that it can be considered included in the calendar, given the willingness of the Government, with the agreement of all, an information of the Minister of the Interior, which will be scheduled. As soon as we verify the availability of the Minister himself, all Groups will be informed of the availability and the date on which the information will be held.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u26	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. Since we were talking about appointing ministers, I would ask for information to be made available in this House, at least next week, which I believe is now necessary. Given that in the House there has been the incardination of the affair on the popular banks, there is a news that leaves me worried and I think should worry everyone: from the first investigations made by CONSOB it is said that there have been abnormal operations compared to rumors for a quantity of at least 10 million euros. I believe that, in order to remove any shadow from the more or less formal anticipations and from any interest that has emerged in the press, it would be useful for the competent minister to make an information on the matter, that does not intercept the legislative process of the Chamber but that puts everyone calm with respect to the operations made on the people. I believe that this should be a shared request because we all want to remain calm and allow the government to have maximum transparency in this matter. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Bottic and Carraro senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u27	On the request for information, I think I should first of all ask the relevant Minister, except that the representative of the Government is unable to give us the answer right now. Undersecretary Ferri, will you comment on this request for information from Senator Volpi?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u28	Mr President, I would like to consult with the minister responsible during the sitting. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] However, there is the willingness, because the Government, as it is showing, is always open to confrontation, to clarify before the House, to which our great respect goes, to work together on many issues and to confront each other in a constructive and transparent way, therefore giving all the explanations of every action of the Government. This is our method and therefore the parliamentary confrontation for us is a firm and fundamental point in the action of the Government. MARTON (M5S). What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u29	I greet the students of the high school "Orso Mario Corbino" in Syracuse, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u30	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1345, 11, 1072, 1283, 1306 and 1514.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been waiting for 20 years for environmental crime to be included in the penal code. This measure has become necessary in order to strike with appropriate penalties those who speculate to the detriment of the environment, the health of the people, the legal economy. The text that came from the House was greatly improved by the amendments tabled by my fellow senators. The condition for prior infringement by the polluter of criminal or administrative rules specifically designed to protect the environment was removed. Now, however, it is necessary and sufficient that the author of the matter has acted abusively. If the bill had been approved as it was, there would have been a nice sponge blow for some of the most important ongoing processes; processes that see the Riva in Taranto or the leaders of ENEL for the case of excess emissions of the oil plant of Porto Tolle. I just wanted to remind those who want a single-camera Parliament. In my view, the definition of disaster and environmental pollution is still too vague. In fact, the new text qualifies the environmental disaster as irreversible alteration of the equilibrium of the ecosystem when almost never, fortunately, environmental damage turns out to be such, or alternatively as a harmful event whose restoration is particularly costly and attainable only with exceptional measures. However, environmental degradation could occur even if it can be restored by ordinary means. The relative abstractness of the concepts evoked by the provisions seems far from easy to prove in court. At the defensive college, ultimately, it would be enough to focus on the absence of certain elements to show that the damage done is not, beyond any reasonable doubt, irreversible, in order to avoid the charge of environmental disaster. The tightening of sanctions and penalties linked to environmental crimes nevertheless goes in a good direction and is a fundamental point to deter highly damaging behaviours to the nature and health of citizens. Every year in Italy the eco-reats grow, from illegal waste trafficking to building abuse, from food counterfeiting to water pollution: the eco-reefs have founded a solid empire that risks destroying the Italian environmental heritage and undermining public health, so it is decisive to combat in a more effective way the threat posed by the phenomena of environmental crime that poison our country. The measure under consideration, however, does not take care to punish illegal activities concerning the abuse of animals: in fact, the proceeds and capital invested by the mafias in this cruel business, so much so that we are already beginning to talk about zoomafias. Illegal betting, exploitation of fighting dogs, trafficking of puppies on the black market, poaching and trade in protected species are just some of the crimes committed by organised crime to take advantage of pets or wild animals. This is something that has unfortunately been neglected by the law. For too many years we have considered our ecosystem as something separate from us, while it is the water we drink, the air we breathe and the food we eat. Following the logic of money, we destroyed the most precious asset: the habitat in which we live. The defence of the ecosystem, however, is not only resolved by an increase in the penalties, but it requires a different environmental culture and a greater sensitivity, which begin with the teaching of respect for nature in schools. Equally important should be to influence a change in the way we do business: too many times Italians have been called to choose between the right to health and that to work. It is companies that must put in place all the instruments to pollute less: a more sustainable production model will therefore have less need to pollute nature. All these virtuous processes would certainly represent a further step towards greater protection of our environment. [[Applause from Senators Bell and Casaletto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a draft law which has already been adopted at first reading by the House and which aims to combat serious phenomena of environmental damage and exploitation. Briefly recalling the qualifying points of the measure, new criminal offences are introduced in the penal code to punish pollution and environmental disaster, the trafficking of radioactive materials and the elusive behaviour of controls; it is also expected that for these offences the normal limitation periods have doubled; the text also provides for the manslaughter hypothesis and the increase of penalties in case such crimes are committed within criminal or mafia associations. The sanctioning apparatus imagined is completed, on the one hand, with the confiscation of the goods that are the product or profit of the crime or that have been instrumental to it, and, on the other hand, with the obligation for the sentenced to the recovery and, if possible, the restoration at own expense of the state of the places. Finally, a reward mechanism for reducing penalties is envisaged for those who work with the authorities prior to the definition of the judgment, also to avoid further harmful consequences, and for those who secure, clean up or restore the status of the places. The measure identifies solutions to a serious emergency that has been affecting our country for years and in particular the southern regions, to which we have not been able to give a strong and concrete response. The problem of the abuse of our territories is before everyone's eyes, but it seems to us that this bill is misconceived and, rather than being a first step in resolving the environmental issue, it is inevitably destined to increase confusion and uncertainty in this matter. We believe that we need more precise and specific definitions of new crimes, which we have proposed with our amendments. This was also the view of the 1st Commission, the Constitutional Affairs Committee, which stated the need to fully respect the principle of determining the criminal case. Only in the face of a precise and well-defined notion of crime can the culprits actually be struck and not leave an area of uncertainty in the interpretation of the norm that can hinder or unfairly affect the activities of honest entrepreneurs who want to carry out their work in a correct manner. The solution certainly cannot be represented by new crimes linked to such high penalties as to reach up to twenty years of imprisonment. Our proposals to bring the penalties back to an acceptable and actually applicable level are linked to a precise consideration: such a highly sanctioning system is made even more ineffective and harmful if we consider that the limitation periods are doubled. The result is that a citizen can be subjected to a permanent crime, so to speak, in which the certainty and stability of the order is denied, just as the right to defence and a fair trial is denied. On the other hand, the introduction of reward mechanisms, which have a common foundation because they make the person involved responsible for reducing the harmful consequences of his behavior, is rendered ineffective. For example, what interest can there be in reclamation and security of the territory if it is then confiscated by the public authority? The incentive for active repentance must necessarily be greater, providing, as our Group has proposed, to exclude confiscation in the event that the defendant has effectively put in place the conduct of active repentance. At the same time, longer deadlines are needed than those provided for in this measure in order to give the possibility to carry out the repair actions. I would also like to stress the usual inconsistency of the Government that, completely distant from the reality of things, with the decree thousandprorogues cuts almost 10 million euros for the surveillance of the land of fires. This is one of the most painful aspects of the environmental problem in the Mezzogiorno, where an area between Naples and Caserta has been tormented for too many years by illegal practices that have led to the burial of toxic waste and where there is a very high percentage of mortality for cancers and leukemias. The Government has thought well to remove the already scarce resources in order to limit the problem and instead to allocate them to the EXPO of Milan, to guarantee the security anti-terrorism of the event. To conclude, we are faced with a bill which is once again made up of unnecessarily punitive provisions, counterproductive to the important objectives it has set itself and which will increase legal confusion and uncertainty for citizens. The result will be to have unenforceable standards, which are not even a first step forward in solving a widespread state of environmental emergency and which has a direct and extremely damaging impact on everyone's life. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u34	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u35	Mr President, the draft law we are dealing with today actually fills a really incredible gap for a country in Europe and the West, namely the total absence in the penal code of an entire title dedicated to environmental crimes. This gap was providentially considered by Europe in 2003 as an important gap, and with the Framework Decision 2003/80 it had indicated Italy's way to remedy it. I would like to remind you that the issue of environmental crimes has its climax and its maximum reason for existence in relation to crimes related to the trafficking of waste: industrial waste, harmful and toxic-harmful waste in particular, but we have seen that nuclear waste trafficking has also been included in one of the articles of this bill. According to a 2013 estimate of the economic value of the mafias operating in the different sectors of waste traffic and environmental damage, it would be of the beauty of 15 billion euros the total budget available to all that reality represented by black, organized crime, common crime, the individual crime that has to do with the problem of ecomafias. Of the total estimated 15 billion, 9 are the ones resulting from waste traffic. These 9 billion also include those deriving from food counterfeits: a problem that should affect all Italy, considering that we are a country that manages to export food products to the world for 31 billion euros, although, from analyses done also recently, it is assumed that our potential would reach at least double without any problem from the point of view of production. All this makes it clear that - as has already been said by some of our colleagues - we must run, because we have been too late in issuing this measure, even if I would not want the delay to be calculated on the last 6-8 months of work that have become necessary to perfect this bill. The delay is, in fact, at least 12 years, a period when everything really happened. And the challenges that unfortunately are affecting the so-called Land of fires or the ILVA of Taranto or those that are facing a little 'everywhere, in Sardinia rather than in the same Lombardy, in my Veneto, in Liguria - where we will go with the Bicameral Commission on the illicit activities connected to the cycle of the waste and on environmental illicits related to them - make evident the existence of an Italy of the submerged, of an Italy of the escape and of the black, an Italy that has activated an economy in reality functional to create environmental damage and to the health of the people who - ahinoi - will produce more and more its evil effects. We know that today we are not in a position to intervene everywhere with the necessary economic strength, for example, for the reclamations or for the necessary environmental restoration, and this is a damage that goes to add up to the 15 billion euros quantified in the Ecomafia budget in relation to environmental damage. I mean, in short, what this bill produces. First of all, it inserts the Title VI- bis in the Book second of the penal code, making possible the use of instruments that until now were not there by the judiciary, the police, the Forestry Corps, the Finance Guard, the ecological operating core of the Carabinieri and the many forces that work to identify those responsible for crimes against the environment. I would like to remind everyone that the lack in the penal code of environmental crime rules still obliges those who work to counter them - so all the police - and who must judge them - and therefore the judiciary - to have to interpret everything through two articles of the penal code which, in reality, refer to other hypotheses of environmental disaster. If you think about it, this is really incredible. There is not in the penal code a type of rules to be able to bring back exactly certain behaviors, so as to have judicially a level of law that guarantees anyone who works in the contrast to certain phenomena, so as not to have to invent anything. Well, so far it has not been possible, because we had to be content to assimilate those crimes to those contained in the penal code. Therefore, we have used Articles 434 and 449, with the consequent indeterminateness; or we have had to consider as the only data referring to these crimes the forecast of Article 257 of Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006, the so-called environmental code. Therefore, it is urgent, important and fundamental that this Parliament should decide to close this game very quickly and therefore to focus its will on the issues that you have previously expressed as being absolutely urgent. The issue of corruption and the other issues that have been raised are certainly urgent, but we must allow those who work in this area to make it clear and to bring out 30,000 crimes per year (80 per day), for that value that we have defined to be well beyond the 15 billion total. The rule introduces five crimes, and not four as has been said: environmental disaster, environmental pollution, manslaughter against the environment, traffic and abandonment of high radioactivity material and impediment to control. This rule uses mechanisms that have proved very useful in the fight against mafias: the industrious repentance, of course, but also the possibility - for example - of being able to operate by putting in the field the collaboration of the repentant, that is, of those who, evidently realized the damage produced, denounce the members to delinquere and have the strength and the possibility to bring to the evidence those who continue to perpetrate damage to the environment and to the health of the people, in order to draw an important and personal profit. We have included the progressive nature of sanctions. We have quantified and appropriately qualified the abstract risk, dividing it from the concrete risk. We have made the damage and the penalty proportional and more burdensome, where there are highly damaging crimes for the safety of people and for the ecosystem. Previously all this was basically sanctioned. If we think that we only had infringement judgments, then judgements that had to do with economic assumptions and not with the hypothesis of penalty for the vast majority of environmental crimes, we wonder if we were not even lucky not to find ourselves with a worse Italy. Again: we adopt the system of Mafia crimes, when we introduce the confiscation of the property and profits of the crime. Here we refer to the anti-mafia law, because the goods resulting from illegal activity and disproportionate to the declared income must be absolutely confiscated. This is a deterrent that I don't have to teach anyone in here how important it is to prevent criminal activity in these systems. Greater coordination with anti-mafia procures is envisaged, but also with the Revenue Agency. I was surprised, in the context of the work we do in the Commission of Inquiry, to hear the highest Italian executive of the Agency of complaining revenue that, in Italy, the information that arrives at that Agency is too late to be able to allow it to intervene by recovering the tax omitted. There is, therefore, a whole situation regarding the evasion of INPS, VAT and IRPEF contributions. Unfortunately, there is the possibility - I would like to remind you of the effect that this has had in the Land of Fires - of having entire industrial activities totally unknown to the evidence of the law, with personnel who work there without having any official recognition and with the need to go and dispose of a massive amount of industrial waste, almost total, that cannot be disposed of by ordinary activity. I shall conclude by saying that we have included in this bill the burden of punishment for corruption, such as the false act in public, where it is aimed at environmental damage. Hence, the provision is addressed to many and not just to a single person. We have operated in full respect - finally, it is to be said - of Article 9 of the Constitution. Health and beauty of the places and health of our land: perhaps we now begin this laborious journey towards respect for ourselves, for our history and, above all, for that world that we should give to future generations with a sense of responsibility. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u36	Senator Maurizio Romani is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u37	Mr President, as part of the examination of the measure on environmental crime, I would like to emphasise the health aspect in order to make it clear how important the environment is for our health and how much, when we talk about the environment, we need to put it in a broader context. In a context like what we are trying to build would make no sense to use the term environment vaguely and generically. It would be important to understand, with this term, the continuous flow of information coming from the outside (so, environment in the broad sense and microenvironment inside the organism: cellular, tissue and systemic) and reaching the epigenome (so our software), causing it continuously to activate and modify its molecular and three-dimensional structure. It should therefore be evident that, in such a context, the chemical-physical composition of the atmosphere, the biosphere, the food chains and their changes should be understood: this, in particular, with regard to the many physical agents (e.g. ionizing and non-ionizing radiations), the molecules and other chemical agents (such as heavy metals) that interfere with the epigenome of our cells and continuously induce them to respond and reposition themselves to modulate the expression of the genome and to allow the cells and the whole organism to adapt to an environment that changes much faster than our DNA changes. We are therefore faced with a truly essential point, on which it is worthwhile to dwell longer. And in order to better understand the concept of plasticity of development, we must reiterate once again that, contrary to what is often claimed, DNA does not contain the individual's genetic program, but simply a huge amount of potential information that is the result of billions of years of molecular evolution (largely synthetic and constructive) and that the individual's definitive genetic program is formed in the nine months of embryo-fetal ontogenesis, based on information from the environment and - as said - on the consequent predictive epigenetic programming of organs and tissues. It has also been said that DNA is a sort of vocabulary, but that "it is the environment that writes the book." We are therefore faced with an epidemiological revolution, characterized by a rapid decrease in acute pathologies due to exogenous causes (think of infectious and parasitic diseases), which have characterized and damaged man's life for thousands of years, but which have also helped to shape our defence systems and, in particular, our immune-competent system. This revolution is also characterized by an increase - so to speak - of speculative and equally dramatic chronic-degenerative, inflammatory and neoplastic pathologies, affecting all organs, tissues and systems: endocrine disorders, metabolic diseases (think of the pandemics of obesity and diabetes) and immunocompetent system (think of allergies and autoimmune diseases); neurodevelopment diseases (such as autistic spectrum diseases), neuropsychiatrics and neurodegenerative diseases (such as Alzheimer's disease); cardio-vascular diseases; malignancies. All this is connected to the environment around us. We believe that the first mentioned epidemiological transformation can and should be framed and, to some extent, interpreted as the product, on the one hand, of the dramatic environmental transformation induced in a few decades by the introduction into the atmosphere, biosphere and food chains, of thousands of molecules of synthesis and ionizing radiation and not, able to interfere with the main signal mechanisms (and biochemicals in general) that regulate our homeopathic systems and, on the other hand, of a whole series of programmatic changes (epigenetic, adaptive and predictive) that determine even significant variations of our reactivity to an environment in continuous and too rapid transformation. Having said that, which must make it clear how important the environment is in chronic diseases that are currently scourged throughout the earth, in Italy, as regards environmental crime, there is a sort of impunity of fraud, at least until now. We have penalty discounts, pleas, benefits that allow those who contaminate to get away with it all the time. The names of the firms involved in the investigations are often hidden, as if they were a state secret. Yet, a 1986 law would oblige the Ministry of Health to publish, each year, the blacklist of those convicted of fraud or sophistication. According to a study by the University of Parma, from 1995 to 1999, out of 2,540 final judgments, the vast majority ended with simple fines, while in 207 cases the conditional suspension of the sentence was applied. Statistics become ridiculous when we examine the "not mention," i.e. those sentenced to whom the criminal record is not tainted. The unpunished make up almost 50 percent: guilty, yes, of having profited on meat, milk, vegetables or other outlawed foods, but legitimated, the day after the sentence, to sell their products at the canteen of a kindergarten or hospital. In Italy the impunity of the sector becomes even more unbearable when the State invests in the food sectors damaged by scandals of scams and poisons, but leaves alone the victims of criminals, as happened for example with the massacre of methanol: 23 years after the events, with a budget of 19 deaths and 23 people become blind, nobody has been compensated. Billions were spent on advertising campaigns, on strengthening controls, on repairing the damage suffered by foreign supermarkets, but not one lira was earmarked for victims. The technical scheme used by the bad guys to avoid paying is always the same: before the judgment the defendants become practically null and void, their companies fail and every possibility of compensation goes up in smoke. I want to take as an example of a crime of environmental damage - in Italy there are unfortunately many - what happened over the years in the lands of Colleferro, once owned by Prince Doria, far from inhabited places, with the presence of a river flowing in the valley, the Sacco river, not too far from Rome and with the railway station of Segni a stone's throw away. The people of Colleferro aren't exactly lucky. Just a few months before the incinerator scandal, where large quantities of toxic waste were illegally burned, hundreds of people living on the banks of the Sacco River discovered that, in their blood, there are high levels of beta-hexachlorocarbamate, toxic substance with devastating effects. IARC, the International Agency for the Research of Cancer, defines this substance as "probably carcinogenic to humans." Beta-hexachlorocarbamate is a waste of lindane production, an isomer used by the large chemical industry ex Snia BPD to manufacture pesticides. Almost 100,000 people live in the area under analysis. Doctors and magistrates, who have opened chain investigations, fear that their health has been put at risk by environmental pollutants of all kinds. There is an investigation into asbestos that has hit the blue suits of some industrial plants; investigations into the incinerator and even more worrying investigations into poisons put into circulation for decades, toxic substances that have continued to pollute land, air, water and food, even after the closure of production plants. For the moment we are far from finding the culprits, but surely the ecological bomb has had devastating effects. The report drawn up by the Department of Epidemiology of ASL Roma is impressive. Published in November 2008 and kept in the drawer for months by the mayors and the commissioner for the emergency, it shows for the male inhabitants of the three countries closest to the industrial pole rates of death by stomach cancer of 71 percent more than the expected of the Region; for pleural tumor 701 percent more than the expected of the Region. As far as hospitalizations are concerned, experts have experienced excessive shocks for lung cancer (41 percent more), pleura cancer (598 percent more), prostate cancer (167 percent more), bladder cancer (147 percent more). Specialists in hospitals in the area, when they are interviewed, complain about the ranks of patients clogging lanes and studies: cardiovascular crisis; peripheral nervous system disorders; asthma in children at unseen levels; boom in genital organ pathologies, both for men and women, who suffer from menstrual disorders and sterility. And so on. There are hundreds of cases like this in Italy. Food seizures by the NAS in 2008 increased by 146 percent compared to 2007; the value of products controlled by the Institute of Quality Control by 642 percent. Sophisticating food, saving on raw materials, using preservatives and dangerous additives is too lucrative a deal. Melamine was found (chemical substance used to produce plastic, fertilizers, glues) in milk and flour, to increase its protein value: a pity that causes calculations and kidney failure until death. At the end of the alarm, two containers were seized in Ravenna with 40 tons of rice flour contaminated with melamine. I could go further, but what I'm interested to point out at this point is that the doctor should give priority to the role of attention and active surveillance on the health of citizens, safeguarding their individual and collective value also in relation to environmental protection choices. The lines of action on which doctors and civil society must move are inspired by a modern vision of the problem. Physicians should be made aware of the need to report any possible connection between disease and mortality and environmental risks identified or suspected; to set up a network of sentinel doctors as an expression of better knowledge of the territory and its socio-economic stratification; to promote the structuring of multi-disciplinary environmental research units that address all the mechanisms for the production and dissemination of potentially known and unknown pollutants; to provide for the creation of dedicated public health units capable of reproducing correlations between the environment and biological monitoring. Think of objectives and aims such as the formation of a modern health awareness of the citizen; the prevention of diseases and accidents in all areas of life and work; the promotion and protection of the health and hygiene of the natural environment; the identification and elimination of the causes of pollution of the atmosphere, water and soil. The protection of health and the environment is not only a duty for the doctor, but also a challenge for medicine. To fight for an ethic of the environment, today more than yesterday, means to safeguard one's own life and the other; to urge ideals of solidarity and sustainable development; to respect future generations. For some time now there has been a dangerous general involution and a dangerous reversal of roles, in which the economy and economic powers heavily influence political positions. I am thinking of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 8 April 2008 extending the scope of state secrecy to a long series of critical infrastructures, such as civil installations producing energy, including nuclear waste storage sites, nuclear power plants, regasifiers, incinerators, and so on. Doctors and politicians who are interested in the environment know well that the epidemiological paradigm applied to environmental damage seems less convincing and sufficient for a number of well-known reasons. The first reason is the long time needed to highlight the damage and then, the presence of confusing factors and the multifactoriality of different pathologies. The doctors, therefore, but also the politicians - who I would like to be much more attentive, in this bill, to what is the relationship between medicine and the environment - have the duty, and at the same time fascinating, to cling to their ethical and human mission in order to protect the environment and consequently man, the community and future generations. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u38	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u39	Mr President, we are all aware of the importance of this measure, at least in words, because the deadline for the transposition of Directive 2008/99/EC on the protection of the environment expired in December 2010. That directive obliges all Member States to provide for criminal law measures that make serious infringements of European environmental law possible. This is to respond to a fundamental principle of the Treaty: to ensure a high level of environmental protection. Yet, in Italy there are still delays and many resistances, despite the increase in unpunished environmental crimes that, more and more frequently, extend beyond borders; crimes that represent a threat to the environment, but also to the economy (for another economy), and require an adequate response. We all know that the existing sanctioning systems are not enough. However, it took us more than a year to get to this House to discuss this measure, since he was fired from the House. The provision will have first and foremost a civil, ethical and moral value of primary importance. It will be the sign, finally, of a recognized and sanctioned social reprobation. In addition, overcoming the sanctioning nature of these crimes will remedy inadequate investigative instruments, time limits for limitation, and useful disproportionateities resulting from the substantial impunity of these crimes. 18.02 (Nugnes follow). However, it was difficult to get to this House today, between discussions and fears from all sides, and we would not have arrived without the pressure, pressure and support of civil society and environmental movements. But it was already written and defined in the directive. A more adherent transcript would have been enough and we would have saved time and discussion. We did, however, need to look for other terms to indicate things: attempts, perhaps, to find some loopholes for someone. But it should not fear just penalties and more dissuasive sanctions for activities that damage the environment those who work correctly in the legality. For the controversial definitions of pollution and disaster - for example - it would have been sufficient to draw on the directive at the point where it defines environmental damage as "significant deterioration of air quality, including stratosphere, soil, water, fauna and flora, including species conservation." On the other hand, we first became fierce about an improbable and then on a lasting of the pre-existing state," as a demonstration of a clear resistance, all of Italy, of a certain entrepreneurial assault, which has not yet understood that social and environmental costs can no longer fall on the community; an entrepreneur who would like environmental protection not to become a limit to clearly misinterpreted business activity, as Confindustria told us in the Commission when he asked for the non-penalty of crimes due to fault or gross negligence. Impunity was then introduced, in a Frankenstein amendment, to the industrious repentance. It was the rewording of an amendment by the rapporteur, and of course we are asking for it to be deleted. Just as we did not want to abandon the irreversible term of the definition of disaster, although we have all established, established and agreed that this is a non-scientific term, which is not realized in nature. And then in the directive we deliberately ignored important crimes, such as the crime related to the operation of an installation where dangerous activities are carried out; or the crime of those who produce, import and export the placing on the market or the use of substances that deplete the ozone layer. However, today we must be satisfied: a good job has been done in the Commission, which we hope will still improve in this House. In short, it has been achieved to free pollution and environmental disaster crimes from the violation of specific laws, regulations or administrative provisions specifically aimed at protecting the environment and, we know what damage this would have done. We finally have a new reformulation of the environmental disaster, where with the word "alternatively" it has been specified that irreversibility is only one of the cases that can be determined. We have included, in the norm on industrious repentance, the fundamental condition that it is possible only if it happens "before the declaration of opening of the debate at first instance," and we would have liked to include also the non-recurrence. We have also obtained - and it is very important - that the confiscated property or any proceeds thereof be bound to the use for the reclamation of the places and the abolition of the controversial part seventh, with which the mechanism of prescriptions, already adopted in the field of occupational safety, was introduced, including in the context of environmental crimes, which gave the supervisory body the power to command the author of a slight fact one or more prescriptions to regularise his position, resulting in the extinction of the crime. The mechanism built by the Chamber, however, granted technical discretion to the founders, without their competence, and powers of such magnitude that the risk of a substantial marginalization of the role of the prosecutor, which instead must be the dominus of the investigations, resulting in serious danger to the same effectiveness of the criminal protection of environmental resources, with extensions on the times and no protection against recurrent behaviour. This is unacceptable. We still have to fight in this House for the replacement of the phrase 'during the pre-existing state in pollution'. The adjective "during" in literature has so far been used only for disaster and never for pollution. And, although it has always been necessary to demonstrate that pollution refers to "an earlier state," this specific statement could now give pretentious tools to the defense to demand precise analysis and certified monitoring of the previous state of environmental matrixes. And we know that this is rarely available. On this issue too, our position has been clear from the outset and we should also try to remedy it. It is also necessary to fight for the replacement of the "irreversible" diction for the environmental disaster, which would be a due act, and for the deletion of the second paragraph of the article on industrious repentance, which provides for non-criminality in cases of manslaughter: this would be an ethical act. Then there would be improvements - in our view - which are essential, such as the failure to clean up, with an amendment already accepted by the rapporteur in the debate in the Commission, but for which I have been asked for a rewording. This is an important point, which has been highlighted several times in the Pecorella report. As we know, the omission of reclamation is regulated by Article 257 of Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006, but it is a punishable person who does not provide for reclamation in accordance with the project approved by the authority. Therefore, it is assumed that there is an approved project that is not being carried out. This clear regulatory inconsistencies must be remedied for a crime which, as it is, is difficult to configure. We also consider it appropriate to include provisions on seizure, as well as confiscation, in order to remedy the difficulties of compensation for the damage: this is also a point highlighted by the Pecorella Commission. There is also a need for action on the specific prescription of environmental crimes. Of course, we know that, by setting environmental crimes as new criminal offences, the first immediate effect will be the lengthening of time limits and the timing has also been specially doubled. But, in the specific case of environmental crimes, we believe that more must be done and that it must finally be specified in Article 158 of the penal code that, for the permanent or continued crime, the term of the prescription will expire from the day on which the permanence or continuation has ceased and, for instant crimes to continued effects, from the moment when the effects of the crime are manifested for the first time. And in article 157 of the code we must add paragraph 6, so that crimes against the environment have a permanent nature and their continuation lasts until the complete elimination of any harmful effect produced, so that there are never more mock sentences like that of Casale Monferrato. I hope that we will still be able to make one last important effort in this House to further improve this fundamental law. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u40	I greet the students of the Institute of Higher Hotel Education "Artusi" in Chianciano Terme, in the Province of Siena. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this draft law demonstrates the need to envisage, even in constitutional reform, the possibility of corrections by the other branch of Parliament, even if the perfect bicameralism is eliminated. I say this because we unanimously agreed to make a number of corrections to the text approved by the House of Deputies, and I believe that still others are necessary. However, I would like to make a premise. I believe that two rules, two fundamental principles must accompany us in examining this bill. The first, which is common to so many other cases, is that the criminal precept must be certain: that is, it must be such that it is easily intelligible and perceptible both by the citizens for the effectiveness of the deterrent of the penal norm, and by the judges for a certainty of the application of the norm. Then there is another question, an observation that concerns our country. Those who travel around the Italian regions have a certainty; we do not have a culture of environmental protection; there is no respect for the minimum rules so that water, air, light and all other resources are respected and guaranteed to each citizen. But when we go to read the individual rules, we realize that we have not yet achieved the perfection that leads us to give citizens not only a criminal law, but also a cultural image of what the crime of environmental pollution is. What, in fact, is the citizen who can understand a definition such as: "anyone who is abusively causing a compromise or a lasting deterioration of the existing state"? Do you realize that? If it is an environmental pollution, what is meant by durability? Months or years? And what is meant by the possibility of restoration to the state of the places at a certain expense? That is why I proposed an amendment which indicated a minimum cost. And I say this not because I am fond of my amendment, but to open a debate in order to verify the possible solutions that identify with certainty what is meant by environmental pollution. Otherwise, generic expressions (which I also refer to in some amendments) lead, on the one hand, to less deterrent effectiveness and, on the other hand, to a diversified application depending on subjective interpretations. We must never allow interpretations that do not have a real connection to the elements indicated in the standard. I agree that when it comes to landscape, environmental, historical constraints, and so on, it is right that there should be aggression, but it is not possible to think that there is the same aggravating factor for the hypothesis in which only the danger of compromise occurs: look, this means that no compromise, no pollution, no deterioration has been achieved; only a danger arises. This rule, therefore, further leads to a subjective interpretation without having a concreteness of the provisions. In Article 452-c, where manslaughter is expected, I have tabled an amendment which means no more or less that. If some of the facts referred to in Articles 452 -bis and 452-b are committed by fault, the penalties provided for shall be reduced from one third to half. Since it is by fault, correcting also what was the second paragraph of 452-g, of which I ask for the suppression, there is not the impunity in abstract, but only - in concrete terms - that if by hypothesis it was a manslaughter crime and the author provided for the restoration of the state of the places, he would provide to repair entirely the damage of the environment and the pollution of the waters, in that case the manslaughter crime would not apply. Why is this happening? Article 452-g provides that the judge may give the suspension for one year only. Now, let's assume that the citizen who committed a manslaughter has achieved an environmental pollution disaster so that it can be completely healed within a year and three months. I wonder: if the judge has the suspension for a year - and you take into account that the limitation period for the crime is suspended - is it correct that there is no possibility for the judge to extend that period in relation to the effectiveness? If the court finds that environmental restoration works are in place necessary to eliminate the entire pollution achieved, we say: "No: has the deadline expired"? This is absurd. I believe that the possibility of an extension by the judge should be legitimated, provided that it ensures that those rehabilitation works are in place and that there is that time necessary for completion. Now I'm trying to tie up all the reasoning. If the crime of environmental pollution is such as to identify with some justification the cost of restoration, on the other hand, we will find ourselves in fact to have what? We must build a culture. If a citizen is wrong, if a citizen is mistakenly polluting (so we are talking about a manslaughter), in that case, if it really was a mistake and if it really was a fault, the citizen might very well want to commit himself to achieving environmental rehabilitation. There is a series of increases in punishment that are not linked, if not to a certain logic. I have not yet seen any amendments from the Government, but I have examined the one of the rapporteur who proposes to delete the words: 'Ionising radiation material'. I have not yet understood why: it is not explained; he mentioned that perhaps it concerns a convention made by the Ministry, I did not understand not who. I disagree, because when we talk about ionizing radiation material, that expression has its own logic. At the same time, we need a better identification of the danger. Look, one thing is to refer to the real danger (I do not have to teach it to those who have practice of criminal rules), which means to assess in this case, in concrete terms, whether the danger has actually been there; one thing is to speak of danger in abstract. For this reason, I believe that we need to reconsider that amendment, which some of us have proposed in order to try to identify with the Government, in the work of collaboration that has been carried out in the Commissions, the possibility of making this legislation actually to protect the environment, so that it affects those behaviors that we all want to be affected, so that it does not remain so generic that it has no capacity to deter. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Stefani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u42	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with this measure, on which we have worked for a long time in the Justice Commission and the Commissions together and with the great cooperation of the Government (for which I would like to thank the Undersecretary Ferri), today we are filling a serious, ancient gap; however, for those who like me and like many of us have dealt with the environment throughout our political life, it has always come late. It was the European Union in time, through the specific directive, that paved the way for the introduction (indicating how to do this) of environmental crimes in our penal code. This work, which has been well illustrated by my previous colleagues and who do not want to repeat it, finally identifies new conducts. Those who deal with criminal law know that conduct means illegal acts identified as crimes. This text introduces new conducts into the penal code by including them in a specific title. It was a good thing for Mrs Puppato to talk about waste trafficking and for those before me to talk about the fight against ecomafias. Look at the fact that environmental crimes in this country cause illegal trafficking estimated at 15 billion euros. It is certainly a flood in which the criminal organizations Lucrano and that often is not punished or prosecuted enough, precisely because there is no specific prediction in the penal code, that instead with this text we go to introduce: we could say "better late than never," because for years the judges, the magistrates and the many, many associations that deal with environmental crimes ask us to identify such conducts. We have done a great deal of work in the Committees, in an attempt to explain what they are: the first is certainly environmental pollution, followed by environmental disaster and everything that causes damage to protected animal or vegetable species - a point on which I will return - as well as traffic and the abandonment of highly radioactive material or ionized radiation. Last, but not least in the area of conduct to be pursued, is the impediment of control, through which it often lucrates and in which a new illegal conduct is identified: to make sure to avoid, through the unfortunately well known mechanisms, the control of the ARPA, the Forest Corps of the State or the Guardia di Finanza also becomes an illegal conduct. Coming to the further specification of the conducts, with colleagues from the Justice Commission, and especially with Senator Casson, we have focused - Mr Caliendo spoke of this in his speech just now - on the identification of a compromise or a lasting deterioration of the existing state. We have tabled an amendment on this point, because we fear that, when it comes to lasting deterioration, there will be no specific possibility of uniform evaluation: "Durable" makes sense to me, but perhaps for another person has another one, for the defendant's defender another and for the magistrate one more. We therefore believe that the best thing is to replace this concept of durability with that of pollution or environmental damage: whether it is durable or not, pollution is environmental damage, while durability - whether it is a year or a year and three months, as was said before - has a relative value in the face of damage that is still irreparable. Think of what happened a few months ago at the gates of Rome, when, as a result of the fact that some thieves, even clumsy, have been washing the ENI pipeline that carried the kerosene to the airport, this has passed through the channels of the natural reserve of the Roman coast, where thousands of birds, amphibians and animals, small or large, have died, however, that was irreparable damage. Coming to another important course, mentioned in our amendments - and I would like to thank Mr Casson for his explanation of vote - we believe that the introduction, directly or indirectly, following human activity, of substances, vibrations, heat, noise or, more generally, physical or chemical agents in the air, water or soil, which could damage human health or the quality of the environment, and cause the deterioration of material goods or damage and disturbances to recreational values of the environment or other legitimate uses of the environment, constitutes pollution. Just think of the electromagnetic pollution that is often pursued - in an ineffective way, until we have this law - by so many mayors, where the telephone antennas are placed near the schools, and I think in particular of the motherly or elementary ones. In the years in which I was counselor in Rome - President Lanzillotta will remember - there were the antennas of Monte Mario right on an elementary school, a situation that brought so much discomfort to that neighborhood. Another course to be pursued in our opinion is that it constitutes environmental damage any significant and measurable deterioration, direct or indirect, of a natural resource and the usefulness it assures. Here, on natural resources I have heard important interventions, just think of everything that is used in the food. Now, Madam President, in the last few minutes at my disposal, I would like to point out that in the Commission we have tried to do a job on which I still do not quite know what the Government will be responding to; but regardless of what it will be, I would like to thank the Undersecretary Ferri who has helped me on this, is to introduce with a specific amendment measures related to illegal activities related to fauna and flora. We call for environmental crimes to be 100% applicable to all damage caused to the biodiversity, flora and fauna of this country. In Italy we have a huge resource of biodiversity, but all too often this is not considered to be the subject of protection. In our opinion, it is necessary to include among these pipelines also those who take in nature, catch, receive or purchase, offer for sale, sell one or more specimens of protected animal species, as well as their death or destruction, are the subject of import, export or, in any case, transit or transport in the national territory specimens of species of protected fauna. In these cases, it is necessary to be punished for this crime, preventing the sanction from remaining merely a violation. We know that the State Forestry Corps and the associations are committed to this, but too often, precisely because there is no prediction of the crime, such conducts remain unpunished. Colleagues, I would like to give this House a final thought. The short century, the twentieth century, has succeeded in damaging the planet as never before had been done in the previous millennia; the short century has led to the almost destruction of the planet without anyone having asked a question about how to stop us in time. The indigenous peoples of South America call the Earth our Pachamama, our Mother Earth. Maybe Mother Earth will never forgive us for the damage we have inflicted on her; let us try at least with this provision to apologize and stop impunity, which is still too great. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u46	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I have now received amendments from the Group's legislative office tabled by the Government. I do not discuss the other amendments, but with one of them the sixth-a is again introduced, which had been deleted with the agreement of all, including the Government; instead, it is now formulated in a different way and it is specified that sub-amendments can be submitted by 8 p.m. Since we may not be able to finish the examination of this measure tomorrow, I believe that in order to be fair, we must give time until paragraph 8-a is discussed in order to table any amendments. We are faced with the elimination of all the part that concerned the violation, with the agreement of the Government, to be put back in another measure. Suddenly and by chance (in fact, I said just now that I did not know if the Government had tabled amendments) I received these amendments. I therefore ask that the deadline for 8 p.m. this evening be deleted and that we consider tomorrow when we set the new deadline. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Caliendo, these amendments were handed over by the government at the beginning of the session. They have been sent to you now. The President of the Senate has set this deadline. Of course, on the basis of these considerations, it will assess whether... CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I've only just heard it from the offices. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). There are no files here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They were sent to all the legislative offices of the Groups. Now I think it's inappropriate to argue... [[Comments of Senator Airola]] I believe that, in the light of Senator Caliendo's considerations and also in relation to the course of the debate, the Presidency will consider whether to grant an extension of the deadline for submission of sub-amendments. We will submit this assessment to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u49	TONINI (PD). Madam President, I believe that it is possible to deal with this issue with reasonableness, as I also understand what you are saying. The matter is indeed full-bodied and complex, but I think that the positive climate in the Commission should not be spoiled in this House. Appreciating the circumstances as well - and continuing with the general debate, it seems to me that it is difficult for us to proceed to the vote on the amendments and articles this evening - I think it is reasonable to postpone the deadline, or at least manage it flexibly, as you said, so that we can succeed by tomorrow, when we begin to get into the substance of the amendments and articles. I think that this can be a common orientation of this House, provided that the Presidency agrees.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u50	I agree with you, Senator Tonini, and in fact I had already set the matter in these terms. However, since President Grasso has put the deadline, we will now check with him whether he is prepared to postpone it, so as to inform the House, if possible, before the end of the sitting, so that we can also organize the work on the government's amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u53	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor. In associating naturally with what Senator Caliendo has said and in appreciating Senator Tonini's words, I would like to stress that the practice for which amendments - which are very substantial and substantial and far from sketching - are sent to the legislative offices without being distributed in this House cannot be accepted. I have known that this has happened because I sit next to Senator Caliendo, but if the text of the Government's amendments was handed over at the beginning of the sitting, it would be good if it were distributed to everyone and not only to the legislative offices, since there is also the right of the individual senator to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u54	There is no doubt about that. I believe that, in the interests of the press and of making the text of the amendments available, the Offices have considered that the time has come and, having no idea that the submission of the sub-amendments could be postponed further, they have taken responsibility and diligent part in getting the amendments to the legislative offices as soon as possible. This does not, of course, mean that the amendments must be made available to all senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u57	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, the Group of the North Legacy also shares its concern about the deadline for submitting sub-amendments. I would point out, among other things, that among the proposed amendments - of which we have just been in possession - we see a couple which, moreover, are contrary to some of the proposals which have been evaluated in the Commission by the rapporteurs themselves. In particular, amendment 1,702, which is highly articulated, re-introduces a very complex paragraph - Part 6-a. The time allowed for us is really ridiculous for us to draw up sub-amendments, if one thinks, among other things, that at the end of the Chamber a meeting of the Commissions 1st and 2nd meetings is convened. We therefore call for more time to be allowed to have the opportunity to examine the text well and to prepare and submit sub-amendments: it was also an hour or a couple of hours, or even to postpone until tomorrow morning, that would be a very desirable thing for us.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u58	I am pleased that you too, Senator, have at your disposal the text of the amendments which were sent to the Groups a couple of hours ago before they were printed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u61	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, we too naturally support the call for more time to work. However, I would also like this story to end, Mr President, and that it was not a kind concession of the majority which, through President Grasso, increases the time: we would like a normal debate and the timing to be appropriate for everyone and not - I repeat - a concession from the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u62	Except that the concession is not of the Democratic Party, but of the Presidency that organizes the proceedings. We appreciated the assessment of all the groups, but the decision belongs to the President. As regards normality, I must point out that in the course of the debate the Government and the rapporteur may table amendments, to which sub-amendments are submitted, according to a deadline which must be compatible with the progress of the work, as set out in the timetable. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Senator Airola, please, let's keep the terms... AIROLA (M5S). No! Those terms must be maintained by you, respecting the regulations. It's not that if one wakes up and protests, then things change! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Airola, you don't have the floor. He's overwhelming his fellow Senator Marton, who was intervening and whom I answered. AIROLA (M5S). But what rules! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I shall communicate the President's decisions during the sitting. Senator Casaletto is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u63	Madam President, I too would like to join in the request from my fellow Members to have a little more time to examine the government's amendments. AIROLA (M5S). You fucked up! D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). Not those words! AIROLA (M5S). What a bad word! But violating the rules of democracy is fine! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, please recover some calm and moderate, if possible, your language, since they are also listening to children in this House. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Please, Senator Casaletto. AIROLA (M5S). If you respect the rules, I respect them too! CASALETTO (Mixed). Madam President, I hope I can recover the seconds that have just taken from me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It will be absolutely done. Don't worry. Time's been blocked, so you'll have all your time. CASALETTO (Mixed). Madam President, the natural environment is a set of delicate millennial balances, which man should try to disturb as little as possible. It must be avoided that it is too complicated to demonstrate the existence of environmental damage. After a long wait, the green light of the Senate's Environment and Justice Commissions came to the bill on environmental crimes. The text represents a fundamental step forward to strike with appropriate penalties those who speculate and earn impunity, damaging the environment and endangering the safety and health of citizens. This is a necessary reform: I would call it a civilization reform. The legal gap on environmental issues is now clear. Unfortunately, the victims are multiplying, but crimes are being prescribed to date. In order to remedy this contradiction, the Chamber had already approved on 26 February, practically unanimously (four votes against), the bill that inserts four new crimes in our penal code: environmental pollution, transport and abandonment of radioactive material, impediment to control and environmental disaster, legal instruments indispensable for the fight against ecocomaphy and illegality. Since 1994 Legambiente has denounced the existence of illicit trafficking in waste which has taken the streets of our Mezzogiorno from the industrial north. Investigations on investigations, complaints, confiscations and arrests have followed in the last 15 years, following the red thread of illicit trafficking: first the solid-urban ones, then the special toxic-harmful ones. It is estimated that the waste business is around €7 billion per year. Just add that this estimate refers only to traffic discovered by law enforcement: this means that it is definitely rounded down. According to the 2008 Ecomafia Report, Veneto is in second place for illegality in the waste cycle; environmental crimes are increasing, arson is growing, in agricultural land the seed of illegality and, consequently, the business of ecomafia. The absence of appropriate sanctions, proportionate and dissuasive, has created the favourable conditions for damage in the last thirty years in different areas of our country: in Campania, in the area sadly known as Land of fires, in Taranto, because of the production processes of Ilva, in the Valley of Sacco, in the Bormida Valley, in Porto Marghera, in the Seveso area and in dozens and dozens of industrial areas along the peninsula. With the inclusion in the penal code of such environmental crimes, first and foremost those of pollution and disaster, it will be possible to help the judiciary and law enforcement forces to ensure that the perpetrators are brought to justice and to prevent further disasters and crimes from happening again in our country, making sure that there are no more cases of "justice denied." To date, crimes against the environment have often become unpunished; those who pollute do not pay, due to the lack of an ad hoc crime in the Italian legal system. We will finally have four new environmental crimes in our system. The sense of epochal change linked to the approval of this measure cannot escape. The country can no longer wait. What is more important is that for the first time in the environmental field there is a change of legal paradigm. It goes from a criminalistic approach, which punishes situations of abstract danger, to one in which the actual damage is sanctioned. However, the text does not refer to crimes in the cement cycle, to building abuse and, therefore, to its speculation, even in areas at risk with the construction in such areas of hospitals, kindergartens and schools. Another problem is the discipline of prescription. As you know, in the Eternit case it was precisely the decision of the Court of Cassation to apply the limitation period for the crime of disaster from the moment of cessation of production (and not from the cessation of the health effects of such activity) that led to the declaration of extinction of the crime. The reform does not say anything on this point and, therefore, the new crime of environmental disaster will be prescribed, according to the general rules, in a period of less than 20 years since the pollution activity ceased. It is clear to everyone that such a term, when it comes to productions that induce diseases with a long period of latency (such as oncology), leads to a paradoxical result: when the harmful consequences of exposure are manifested, with the development of the disease, the crime is already prescribed. In order to prevent the whole reform from being emptied of its meaning by the perverse mechanism of limitation, it is essential to find a remedy: to set the time limit for the beginning of its course from the moment of cessation of danger (and not the cessation of polluting activity), or to double the normal limitation periods, as had already been proposed in the text approved in the Commission in the House of Deputies and then amended by the Assembly. Certainly positive are the aggravating circumstances for the environmental crimes provided for in the text, both in the cases of the association to criminals, and - above all - in the case of the involvement of public officials or in charge of public service: an increase more than welcome, given the levels of corruption in environmental matters. Therefore, those who pollute pay - and that is fine - but only if they have violated administrative provisions, if the damage is irreversible and its repair is particularly costly for the State. However, with this formulation, those who pollute are in danger of not paying at all. The text, as it is written, risks instead becoming a pass for even the most serious violations; worst of all, it also puts at risk the investigations and criminal processes already underway: from those on disasters caused by environmental pollution caused by the thermal power stations of Savona and Rovigo, to the eventual trial against the ILVA summits. To these critical issues, highlighted with a loud voice by environmental associations, we should remedy to ensure those protections indispensable to our land and to the citizens of this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u64	I greet the students of the scientific high school "Torricelli" in Bolzano who are today visiting the Senate. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u65	With regard to the debate that took place just now, when the debate took place, the President announced that he would extend the deadline for tabling amendments at 9.30 a.m. tomorrow. That is what has been decided and I thought it would be appropriate to inform this House immediately. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u66	Madam President, in these two years of presence in Parliament I have often felt and felt a sense of frustration. Many things that could have been done and many laws that could have been passed to protect the lives and health of citizens have gone up in smoke, because it has always been preferred to guarantee other interests: the strong ones, those that give a counterpart, those that are not part of the club of ordinary citizens. However, this bad feeling is being swept away today because here, in this House, we are debating a bill that the Italian people, the judiciary and the associations have been waiting for for over 20 years. Yeah, 20 years. Yet it is sad to see this House - the Senate House - completely or almost empty and certainly very little attention to the debate, even by the Presidency. With this bill we finally insert in our penal code specific cases of environmental crimes. This is an institutional reform of great importance in order to finally be able to give the right "arms" to the judiciary, so that those who are guilty of crimes against the environment can finally be punished criminally and not simply by a violation. I am thinking of bell citizens like myself, who see every day the territory of their region torn apart by pollution due to illicit spills, toxic fires, the burial of radioactive, nuclear waste, the proliferation of criminal activity that has been operating undisturbed for 20 years from the North to the South of the Peninsula. But I also think of the citizens of Apulia who live the tragedy of pollution of the ILVA plant, where seven decrees have proceeded to try to save the private company of Riva. But who thinks about saving taranthins? I remember the Eternit case, which ended with a shameful sentence that called off the prescription process. Each Region has its own environmental dramas, each Region cries dead that have not had justice and indeed, it has seen the guilty not only get away with it, but continue to carry out undisturbed these criminal activities. We would have liked a strong, courageous, perfect text to emerge from the parliamentary work of the House and Senate. This will not be the case, unfortunately, because despite the hard work of the 5 Star Movement, the sense of justice could not prevail. Nevertheless, I believe that this is the first major step towards the real protection of the environment. I would therefore like to briefly highlight some of the strengths and criticalities of the draft law under consideration. As is well known, EU environmental legislation has intervened and intervenes in a constant and pressing manner in order to safeguard the quality of the environment and protect human health. But the implementation of the directives is not always timely, on the contrary, Italy has always stood out for its delays. The environmental crime to date has been a criminal offence of alleged danger, structured in a preventive precautionary logic of defense of the protected property. But it is not acceptable that negligent behaviour, which is causing serious damage to the environment, does not find an appropriate criminal penalty. It is the European Union itself, in Directive 2008/99/EC of 19 November 2008 on the protection of the environment of the European Parliament and of the Council, whose deadline for transposition in the Member States was 26 December 2010, to require national legislators to provide for effective, proportionate and dissuasive environmental sanctions. Italy has only partially transposed this Directive, with Legislative Decree No 121 of 7 July 2011. Partly, because the political class, over the years, has never really wanted to face this debate. This lack of legislation, with the consequent exclusion of criminal liability, has greatly aggravated the role of the judge who, in the light of constitutional principles and always respecting the principle of legality in criminal matters, has tried to guarantee protection to the environment. In a regulatory and legal context stratified and chaotic, the inclusion in the penal code of a title dedicated to crimes against the environment is of fundamental importance to us. This choice leads to an increase in the protection of the legal environment, well understood by the community, in the light of the principles of prevention and precaution. Already the fact that we have penalized conducts that until now were considered administrative illegal is a conquest. And we of the 5 Star Movement are satisfied with the result that was taken home. With the draft law under consideration, in fact, new criminal offences are codified, specifically the case of environmental disaster, traffic and abandonment of high radioactivity material, impediment to control and environmental pollution. With reference to Article 452-a on environmental pollution, I would like to reiterate what has already been said several times in the Commission. I am referring to the long-term deterioration of the pre-existing state. If the purpose of the bill is to extend environmental protection, it is not clear how such a diction can be shared, which in fact only aggravates the burden of proof with consequent interpretative doubts for the judge at the stage of application. It is not acceptable that a lasting deterioration in relation to the pre-existing state must necessarily be demonstrated in the light of the situation of environmental pollution, since a significant deterioration is sufficient in itself, according to the previously used statement. Another important aspect is certainly the modification of the prescribed terms: too many times the work of prosecutors and judges has been frustrated, as for the recent judgment of the Supreme Court in the Eternit trial, and we cannot allow this to happen again. With the bill n. 1345 the prescribed terms are doubled compared to the ordinary ones provided for in article 157, paragraph 6, of the penal code (article 452-ff, paragraph 5), and this certainly facilitates justice in the pursuit of environmental crimes. On the other hand, the point of regret is the reference to the so-called industrious repentance, where criminality is excluded in the event that one of the new crimes against the environment is committed by fault - rather than by malice - and the culprit, before the opening of the debate at first instance, arranges for the safety, reclamation or restoration of the state of the places. On this point too, the Movement expressed its dissent. Data from the European Environmental Crimes Report of 21 November 2014 published by the European Judicial Cooperation Body Eurojust show that cross-border environmental crimes would amount to between EUR 30 and EUR 70 billion per year, almost always being unpunished. Always unpunished! That's a shame. The European Commissioner for Justice, Mr Jourová, said on this point: Environmental crime is a threat to human life, health and natural resources. These crimes affect society as a whole. You have to fight them hard. I fully agree with that statement. Stories and numbers about environmental crime are alarming There's no more time to waste. Seriously fighting environmental crime will also lead to a fight against poverty, misconception and criminal phenomena. Today we certainly start a path against environmental crime, a path that is still uphill. It's a start. Even this time the 5 Star Movement would have wanted to do more, but we were not allowed. All our battles, those that we carry on as a Group, have the exclusive objective of protecting absolute values, values that cannot and must not be mercenized, but only protected and protected. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u67	Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the time has also come for a qualitative leap on environmental crime. A qualitative leap that has been expected for years; in the meantime our environment has been affected, many impunitys have been recorded and have touched the conscience of public opinion, rightly, also creating a certain distrust of Parliament, governments and the ruling class of our country. Now, in this legislature, here in the Senate, we must all warn that the time to make this qualitative leap, albeit late, has arrived; we must make sure, with everyone's contribution, to fire a qualified law, able to return to the House possibly without being modified. In this way we would have done well our legislative duty and the country would appreciate such a qualifying result. Colleagues, the crime of environmental pollution was missing in our code. A step forward, therefore, we propose it, clear and without infigurations. Compared to the House, we have improved a point that I would like to bring to your attention. In the Chamber it was identified, as a condition to punish with the imprisonment from two to six years and with the fine from 10,000 to 100,000 euros, in violation of laws, regulations or administrative provisions it violated precisely the norms placed to protect the environment, defining, then, its case. We have eliminated the words 'in violation of laws, regulations or administrative provisions' because the risk involved was that this expression was an escamotage in order not to reach the heart of the case of environmental crime in order to be able to sanction it. We preferred to say: "Everyone who is abusively causing a lasting compromise or deterioration of the pre-existing state". And then we have defined the case, also making a positive contribution talking not about the ecosystem, but about an ecosystem and also stressing, as they have already done to the House of biodiversity also agrarian, flora and fauna. Colleagues, we could remove the term unfairly in the course of the amendment. Of course, it is certainly a step forward compared to what has been done in the House. We shall discuss this in the course of the amendment. Colleagues, I also stress that when pollution is produced in a protected natural area or subject to a landscape, environmental, historical, artistic, architectural or archaeological constraint, or to the detriment of protected animal or plant species, the penalty is increased. We also added aggravating factors to the Senate. They have been well specified, they will now be improved in the amendment, and so here too we have given an answer to a question that had remained open to the House. With regard to the environmental disaster, here too we have for the first time in our code (if we were to approve such a rule), the entry into stage of a very important criminal norm. On this they have been consumed, even in our country of the grave violations and impunity has peeped. This will hardly happen in the future, because we have foreseen very strict cases and have tried to qualify well what constitutes an environmental disaster. Three cases are listed alternately, and it is difficult to escape the possibility of getting away with a situation of environmental disaster. Aggravating events have also been foreseen when the disaster is produced in a protected natural area and subject to those constraints, which I used to recall, for the crime of environmental pollution. Colleagues, I would not like you to underestimate another important point of reference, inserted in the Chamber and improved here in the Senate, which concerns 452-d, relating to traffic and the abandonment of high radioactivity and ionizing radiation material. Consider, ladies and gentlemen, that this horrible traffic has also been consumed in our territories and has produced monstrous damage. The mafias have been able to organize a devastating activity in this area and many territories have been hit hard. We have also planned 456-e, inserted in the House and improved in the Senate, to strike those who prevent controls. It is an activity that has been recorded in many investigations and, therefore, to have foreseen such a criminal case qualifies Parliament's work. I would also like to stress an aggravating circumstance concerning the entry into the scene of the association, both the simple one (disciplined by Article 416) and the one regulated by 416-a, i.e. the mob organisations. We know that, now, in the violation of the environment, many reports that have been presented (I am referring above all to the report by Legambiente on narcomafie), bring into play precisely the criminal organizations that are traced back to the mafia organizations. A good leap forward, a good choice, to be appreciated, by Parliament. We discussed, ladies and gentlemen, the industrious repentance. I think the hard-working repentance shouldn't scare us. It is a positive and expected fact with regard to those who work to prevent the criminal activity from being brought to further consequences. It is a positive and anticipated fact with regard to those who are actually helping the police authority or the judicial authority in the reconstruction of the fact, in the identification of the authors and in the subtraction of resources relevant to the commission of the crimes; or, for those who before the declaration of initiation of the debate at first instance, ensure the safety, the clean-up and, where possible, the restoration of the status of the places. In other words, we offer a hand to those who stretch their hand and collaborate in all cases of environmental crime, so that the environment is put at the center, the ascertainment of the truth prevails and, above all, the interest in the safety, the reclamation and the restoration of the state of the places is moved. We are discussing - and I also hear this from the speeches made in this House - whether to assess the exclusion of criminality against criminal offences when they are of manslaughterous origin. This is an open debate: there are the pros and cons. I also think that perhaps an exclusion of criminality is not entirely satisfactory and therefore I think that, most likely, we should attest to those qualified attenuators, that we identify for all crimes, in order to ensure that on that other track we can proceed in a comprehensive way, precisely to encourage collaborations and the restoration of places. We will consider the amendment if we have to take this other step forward too: I remind my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement what happened in the Commission, with the rewording of a text that was shared and presented precisely by the 5 Star Movement. The debate is open: there are - I repeat - pros and cons: let us evaluate them and decide together. Colleagues, even on the confiscated property there is a huge novelty, because not only do they confiscate the property, that they constitute the product and profit of the crime, or that they used to commit the crime, but here in the Senate we have added the prediction that those confiscated property, the income that is produced through their management and their possible proceeds must be put in the availability of the competent public administration and tied to the use for the reclamation of the places. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to come to the conclusion, Senator Lumia. LUMIA (PD). This is another important choice made in the Commission, and we must also appreciate and support it in the course of the work of this House in the course of the amendment. Colleagues, I am going to conclude my speech by pointing out two issues that remain open, the first of which concerns environmental fraud. I believe that this crime can also be staged in the course of the amendment and that it can also be accepted and shared by the House. A second question that remains open is that of the protection of the animal species, in case laws are violated, without questioning the productive and industrial activity, but affecting all the illegal activities that use protected species or put in condition of non-safety the animal species. I think that there should also be an amendment to this point and the proposals made by colleagues from different groups, including the Democratic Group, should be welcomed. I therefore think that we can still improve this text and be satisfied, because Parliament will certainly have made a real leap in quality. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u71	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, forgive me: I am speaking for a truthful operation, because it seems correct to me, after you said that in the short way the texts arrived at the legislative office... PRESIDENT They arrived at the legislative offices... MARTON (M5S). We have arrived at 5.48 p.m. and we are therefore given two hours to draw up amendments. It seems to us a way of working... not president. We have already postponed until tomorrow morning. MARTON (M5S). I appreciate that, but it's not that you always have to get to the fights or that you have to raise Senator Caliendo to say that it's not fair or that Senator Tonini has to agree. I believe that it is more appropriate to re-establish adequate time to work decently, so that this House can return to decent work because it must not be a favor to give an hour or less to work well. Please tell the President, whom I hope he is listening to, that we are thinking. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u72	He's enlisted to speak Senator Companione. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, this measure has been dealt with in the Commissions of the territory, the environment, environmental goods and justice, and our assessment can only be favourable to the long-awaited inclusion in the penal code of a special title, relating to environmental crimes. This is certainly an excellent step forward in providing adequate penalties for those who cause damage to the environment, and also endangering the health of citizens. This measure, in fact, is also the result of an increasing awareness of the relationship between environmental protection and health protection, an issue on which much still remains to be done. That is why better predicting the situation of the environmental disaster, or that of the trafficking of radioactive material, as well as providing for the tightening of penalties for those who commit unlawful acts against the environment in order to acquire the management or control of economic activities, is tantamount to providing the forces of order, as well as the judiciary, with more effective tools to counter those environmentally harmful situations that present themselves in our country with a often varied and controversial face. It is a first step - I said - although we cannot hide, and indeed we must highlight, the bitterness felt for the rejection in the Commission of two very important amendments to prevent precisely those environmental disasters that could be caused to the sea by drilling operations for oil and gas. A theme that we imagine is at the heart of many of us, as provided for in Article 38 of the so-called unlock Italy that in fact facilitates drilling, determining a clear vulneration of environmental protection, with regard to the time of full transposition of the European Directive n. 30 of 2013. As my colleagues will recall, Parliament has transposed this important directive with the European delegation law No 154 of 2014, but we also know that the actual transposition will only take place with the issuing of the decree delegated by the Government, which is not yet there, and that it will have to be issued in the final date of 19 July 2015. In the meantime, therefore, there is a serious risk that licences will still be issued with the protection and guarantees provided by the European directive. That is why it seemed necessary for us to table two amendments which I have tabled in this House during our work in the Commission. The first provides for the imposition of penalties for the conduct of any person who initiates the production of an installation for offshore oil and gas operations in breach of the requirements laid down in Directive No 30 of 2013 for the issue of the single licence and therefore, in fact, the amendment tends to prevent the implementation of any elusive behaviour of that directive. The second, always linked to the problem in question, tends to increase to criminality the behaviour of those who for the research and inspection activities of the seabed aimed at the cultivation of hydrocarbons, uses the technique of the airgun, or other explosive techniques (some other colleague has referred to this problem). It is worth remembering once again, ladies and gentlemen, that when we talk about preventing environmental disasters, even with the deterrent of sanctions, we must not only think about the disasters that occur on the ground, but we must think about the degree of fragility of marine ecosystems. And surely the Mediterranean Sea, precisely because of its being a closed sea, slowly reciprocable, represents a delicate ecosystem, in which no sanction could compensate for any disasters caused by a potential spill of hydrocarbons. The Mediterranean, so rich in biodiversity, with its very special benches, its submerged treasures, is a good that we cannot put in any way at risk, and this also for the waste that a disaster at sea would have on the Southern regions, whose only hope of resistance, in this terrible economic and social crisis, are and remain fishing, agriculture and tourism. On these two amendments, I would ask both the Government and my colleagues to pay great attention to the improvement of the text and not as has been done with - in our view - a little superficiality. We cannot, in fact, introduce a fine measure amending the penal code and then let certain contradictions, which certainly do not honour the government, persist and, in fact, make the legislative effort at least incomplete and incomplete. We therefore ask the Government, in order to remain on the subject, for an active measure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u74	Madam President, I am going to talk about the introduction of a crime hypothesis into our penal code. We are dealing with a theme that should be a prince in our context of life: the environment. As previous speakers said, there has been a lack of environmental culture in Italy for years. It is the lack of a culture that has led so many years ago to behaviors that unfortunately persist and have caused a devastation of our ecosystem that is not only derived from resounding cases, but, sometimes happens, following a constant and very dilated anthropization. I would like to take advantage of this moment to enter into some details that can remember and make it better understood what it means to apply this future rule, which we are now dealing with in particular cases. In my province, Vicenza, there are unfortunately shameful cases of pollution. There is a factory of horrors that has been spoken about for years in my areas, which has spilled on hexavalent chromium soil, going to affect just the slopes. It has spilled a substance that has caused more than three, four deaths and that has resulted for the perpetrators of this penalty pollution of two years and six months of imprisonment and the sentence to the payment of sums that have never been paid for an essential and fundamental reclamation, a reclamation that so far has cost 4 million euros and that costs every year 400,000 euros. I would remind you that another EUR 10 million will be needed. I wonder if these measures, like this one in our examination, could give answers to these kinds of situations that are being created. They are situations, gentlemen, that are not so peregrine and that can be realized perhaps in those economic and entrepreneurial realities close to bankruptcy and closure, that is, at the moment when there is no heritage to attack, at the time when there have been miserable penalties, when there is the need to make a reclamation and there is the question: who does the reclamation and who pays it? What if the reclamation isn't done? There are realities in Italy that really make people shudder in other ways. Unfortunately, I also have to mention another case that concerns my Province. It is a particular case because the release of perfluorates has not yet been regulated, so it is not known whether they are more or less dangerous. In the meantime, these chemicals have the peculiarity of clustering on the cells, on the food of humans and animals that we ourselves eat, but there is no parameter for this situation that is raging. Then we ask ourselves: what is the environment; what is pollution, what is the environmental disaster? Will these rules that we are passing have the capacity to discourage, to be a real deterrent, but above all will they be able to effectively punish those who are responsible for these very serious forms of crime that affect not only human life, but the future of our lives? In observing the text in our examination, we see that there are hypotheses which, as they are structured, raise doubts. In fact, let us remember that a criminal precept has an effectiveness of deterrent when it has an intelligible scope, when it is understandable. As has been said before, it must be understandable to the citizens, who must know what the criminal hypothesis is, but also to the magistrates who apply it. Only in this way can repressive behavior be achieved at a time when conduct is perfected and a discouraging moment is created upstream. The certainty of the penalty must really be the principle on which we all have to standardize ourselves in order to draw up texts and the one we are discussing is quite complicated. As we have seen, in the transition from the House to the Senate he has undergone important changes and corrections, but perhaps he will still need further changes. We will probably be aware of the goodness of this rule when it is actually applied and I hope that we will have the honesty and fairness of citizens to change the text again if necessary to make it more and more effective. For this reason, however, as my colleague will say in his explanation of vote, we have serious concerns about this bill. Sometimes, in fact, there are indications (what is the danger of compromise, what is meant by disaster) that we really fear can give in the moment of application spaces of interpretation to the magistrate such that it can induce him to make decisions maybe not so effective. As I conclude, I would like to point out that criminal rules and a continuous set of regulations are not enough. There is a need to create a culture throughout Italy, and this must start precisely from young people, from school; wherever it must imperish the principle that the environment is extremely sacred and above all it is not eternal and can be compromised and that compromise can have effects in the years to come. Therefore, we approve these norms, let us lose ourselves to quibble about the details, but then in the end we will have to see the Italians all intent to better understand what it means environment and respect for the same. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Pepe]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u75	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u76	Madam President, we are called upon to discuss a draft law which intends to establish in our legal system the crime of environmental crime, which is necessary and awaited. I was impressed by the words of my colleague Stefani, because still today the expression "environmental crime" is easily pronounced, but not everyone has the perception of the environmental disaster to which our territory is subjected: from Caffaro, in the province of Brescia, where people can not even walk on foot on the grass so high is the quantity of polychlorodiphenyls (PCB) present on the ground, to Tuscany, where there is the thallium, a poison that had been felt only in the novels of Agatha Christie, and then switch to hexavalent chromium in the territory of Veneto, where there are also other substances of which up to a few decades ago we did not even know the existence; to arrive then to Lazio where the legislator thought well to increase from 10 micrograms per litre to 50 or 60 the amount of arsenic present in the water, but little matter. In Basilicata there is a real wreckage, where hydrocarbons even come out of the taps: think that the water of the tap is burning. We have a totally compromised environmental situation, but it is our duty to analyse the measure point by point. I have to say that many aspects of the proposed legislation leave us puzzled. This text defines environmental disaster as the irreversible alteration of the balance of the ecosystem, which in itself is very difficult - if not impossible - to be demonstrated, as demonstrated by the many cases mentioned above; then it makes the possibility of the crime of environmental pollution subject to violations of laws, regulations or often ineffective, bland and in any case insufficient to guarantee the protection of the landscape and health. It extends the crime also to the possible and very vague case of "abusive" pollution, de facto weakening the scope and effectiveness of the regulated cases. When the crime of environmental disaster is linked to the offense to public safety due to the objective relevance of the fact for the extension of compromise or for the number of persons offended or exposed to danger, the environmental disaster is configured as a crime of damage and no longer of concrete danger. In order to be able to ascertain the new crime of environmental disaster, it should be possible to produce reliable data on the extent and number of persons involved and to demonstrate the causal link between deaths, diseases and polluting events. And here, strangely, toxicology has been completely abandoned: the soil is characterized, but not the human beings and, those few times that is done, come out values to say the least creepy. History, however, shows, for example in the land of fires, that in cases of asbestos disease the disaster can be long invisible, therefore unpunished, because the effects are not known. In addition, there is the introduction of active rethinking, with the benefit of a reduction of penalty for the polluter who agrees to operate a reclamation of the places: at best, the norm tends to favour an unlikely repentance; at worst, it would realize a concrete condonation that, combined with the possibility for those who pollute to conclude program agreements for the implementation of integrated projects of safety or reclamation and industrial conversion and productive economic development in the sites of national interest (SIN) (as provided for by Article 4 of the so-called Italian destination decree) will allow the polluters themselves to take advantage, paradoxically, of public contributions and tax advantages in place of the penalty. And attention should also be paid to the fact that the sanctioning discipline of administrative and criminal offences in the field of environmental protection, which applies to infringements of environmental law that have not caused any real or present harm or danger of damage to environmental resources, could allow, once more, the forgiveness of crimes that, in most cases, do not cause immediate harm. What can be said about the fact that the judicial police are responsible for technical and administrative tasks that are outside its function and its competence, taking it away from the work of prevention so requested on the territory? Finally, it is not true that in our code there are no rules, albeit weak, to protect the environment and health: in order to sanction crimes against the environment, the penal code currently constitutes the case of the "disaster named ", qualifying it as offensive behaviour that causes damage to the environment; with the approval of this legislation, however, such extension of the norm may no longer be applicable or practicable. Nothing is said about the prescription of the crime, which, in the absence of ad hoc regulation, will be calculated according to the general rule, which is a real weakness of the current legislation, which has all too often allowed the beginning of the term from the moment when the crime took place, ignoring the persistence of the consequences in the environment as in men, for the nature and health of people and often their children. For these reasons, this text - which, in its intention, wants to introduce the concept of environmental crime in the Italian code - is likely to prove to be a pass for polluters. A case for all is that of the ILVA, but I could refer to one of the hundred processes that concern the land of the fires: there is the concrete risk that the new measure can represent an assist for the accused for the disaster of Taranto; to prove that the damage done by the factory is 'irreversible', in fact, it would be necessary to prove that it has made a series of attempts of reclamation that have not produced results. There is a risk, therefore, of doing a favour to the industrial groups that are being pressured on by the procure precisely in view of their lightness or failure to protect the environment and health; and this is a risk that we cannot afford. In a nutshell, this proposal, as it was built and manipulated in its process and in spite of its intentions, risks becoming - as well as highlighted by environmental associations and many magistrates - a "save conduct" for any environmental crime. For this reason, I am going to vote against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u77	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few decades the approach of Italian society to environmental issues has changed considerably. It is usual to summarize this change, this spread of a new sensibility with the expression, often abused, the environment is also an economic resource and is not a limit. From this new awareness is achieved a change of method in the relationship between public administrations and citizens. The involvement of so-called active citizenship has increased, first in spontaneous forms, sometimes even somewhat naïve, then in more structured and procedural ways. Today, at any conference of services concerning environmental authorisations of some importance, citizens and associations can participate in the protection of health, nature, landscape and various important interests from an environmental point of view. The debate in recent years in particular has shown a change of trend. Initially, the greatest attention was focused on the pathological aspects of the environment, so to speak. Think of the birth of the first environmental movements, focused primarily on the fight against various forms of pollution. Today we talk much more about the environment in the physiological aspect, so we focus more and more on the topic of nature conservation and landscape conservation. In view of this changed sensitivity, which can be seen with increasing numbers, in our society we find, however, an increasing number of environmental crimes. Analyzing in fact the Report ecomafia 2014 of Legambiente we find that in 2013 the found infringements have been pairs to 29,274, with as many as 321 clans recorded. The business related to ecomafias amounts to 15 billion euros. Crimes related to the waste cycle, a real scourge, especially in southern Italy, have increased. The crimes found in the agri-food sector have doubled, and in the year of Expo in Milan, dedicated to the theme of nutrition, this seems a paradox. Crimes related to the cement cycle account for as much as 14% of the total. These are just a few numbers that testify to how much alarm there is and there must be in order to implement concrete initiatives aimed at protecting the environment. These data show, where analytically interpreted, that the attacks on the environment are not only those of the big industries, which may still use desert technologies (it is useless to mention here the case ILVA), but concern the whole Peninsula, every municipality, every part of the territory, every small company. Consider, for example, the rampant phenomenon of building abuse, which increasingly affects fragile and delicate areas of the Italian territory. In this area, prevention policies and planning strategies have not had the desired effects, so significant environmental disasters continue to occur. Faced with these alarms, in view of the data mentioned and the reports of the various prosecutors who have been shocked at the recent inauguration of the judicial year at the various court of appeal, we therefore need a rationalization and a system of strategies aimed at protecting our environment. Before even dealing with criminal cases, the system of controls must be adjusted and made efficient. In this sense, one cannot fail to record how cumbersome and complicated the Italian system is. At national level there is the ISPRA, an institution whose role has been increased with the latest measures taken in this parliamentary term. At regional level there are environmental protection agencies and local health companies. In a side position, without formal powers and roles, there is the varied world of university research. Often one has the perception that all these public subjects - I repeat, public - do not dialogue or even land on to different studies, researches and conclusions. All this leads to a great disorientation for public opinion and citizens. Let us think about how much alarmism is created whenever contradictory data are disseminated on pollution and damage to health in a given territory, perhaps based on analyses and studies from different institutions. Let us think about how difficult it is in those cases to univocally prosecute without incurring uncertainties and mistakes that are likely to frustrate both prevention and repression. The logical conclusion, therefore, is that it is necessary to act immediately on a regulatory and administrative level in order to give greater clarity and efficiency to the system of controls. At the same time, the legislator is also asked to amend and simplify administrative procedures relating to environmental authorisations, providing public administrations with a framework of rules that are safe and easy to apply. In this sense, the 2006 Environment Code was not enough; much more needs to be done. At the same time as these activities, we can think of a greater efficiency of our criminal system, identifying new criminal cases such as those before us today. It is certainly useful to have identified and better defined the crimes of environmental disaster, pollution, the abandonment of radioactive waste, the impediment of control and to have them included in our code. These are certainly useful but incomplete measures. The basic vice of the provision - it has been emphasized also in other interventions - remains that of the genericity of the cases described in the individual articles, which make difficult the task of the interpreter, both in court, and in administrative. The present measure represents, therefore, another part of an uncertain and confused action, such as that deployed by the Government over the last few months. There is no escape that the Renzi Government, in presenting itself to this House, had referred to the green economy as a qualifying element of its political novelty. Well, apart from yet another decree on the ILVA and the usual palliatives on the Land of fires and hydrogeological failure, it can still not be said that the government has focused on the green economy. Few commercial interventions and nothing more. Meanwhile, the resources for the Ministry of the Environment are reduced, protected parks and marine areas are abandoned to themselves and environmental issues are dealt with only after measures by the judges in a purely emergent way. These considerations leave us deeply perplexed and summarize the unsatisfactory action of the Government and the majority in environmental policies. These reflections convince us even more that the Renzi Government and its majority continue in the announcements and the adoption of ephemeral measures, without putting in place concrete policies that really change the lives of Italians, contrary to the media messages of recent months. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u78	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u79	Madam President, it says the saying 'who breaks pays', but the polluter does not pay, this contradiction must be corrected, and that is the ratio of this bill. Every year in Italy more than 30,000 environmental crimes are detected, almost four per hour, from illegal landfills, illegal quarries, air pollution, illegal discharges of watercourses. We are talking about crimes that bring to the organized underworld almost 20 billion per year, crimes that are sanctioned in an absolutely inefficient way, since they are criminal offences and not crimes and with extremely short time of prescription, thus frustrating the long and tiring work of the investigators. Unlike other crimes in the field of the environment, between expert opinions and counter-perices, the procedural terms extend monstrously, so much so that in several trials it is said that the only ones to be definitively condemned are those who negotiate through a shortened rite: who chooses the ordinary rite is almost certain to get away with it. In the Legambiente dossier of 2014 we examine 17 eco-processes all unpunished, to describe a history of justice denied: prescribed processes on the Eternit case, on the Pitelli landfill, on the petrochemical of Porto Marghera, on the dump of Vallone to the island of Elba and, again, the Artemide process or the Cassiopea process. Some investigations, then, ended with the famous fact that it does not exist as a crime or for intervening prescription with extinction of the crime itself. Alongside the issue of limitation, it must be remembered that many processes end with absolution because, as is the case with many crimes of pollution or specific environmental disaster, these cases were not yet included in the penal code. Therefore, the processes related to the Colleferro plant, the Sacco Valley, the Tamoil refinery in Cremona risk the prescription. There are, then, archival processes such as the one related to the Brindisi Petrochemical, with exposure to vinyl chloride monomer. However, the crime has been extinguished as a prescription: it is a verdict that is repeated and is now common to many criminal trials on crimes and environmental disasters. So far, a systematic devastation of the territory has been achieved, thanks to criminal and environmental legislation substantially contrary, without any deterrent capacity and with the guarantee of immunity for those responsible. The law, in fact, appeared defective, abnormal, imprecise. This legislation, which, due to a lack of repressive penalties, is too short a requirement for too long processes, environmental damage which cannot be translated into precise charges, has made itself and is still complicit in serious damage to the ecosystem, attacks on public health and large areas of impunity. Hence the importance of the bill we are debating, which has been too long in the Senate Environment and Justice Commissions and all too often postponed by the majority in this House's agenda. It is therefore important to discuss these environmental crimes and to strengthen criminal proceedings in the environmental field, in order to combat lawlessness and eco-life more effectively, by adapting the current penal code, which did not include the eco-reactors, with pollution and environmental disaster. The draft law we are discussing is one article, Article 1, and it is divided into two distinct parts, which I would have separated, given the completely different nature of the contents. The first part of the bill inserts into the penal code the "Title VI- bis - Dei delitti contro l'ambiente"; it defines environmental pollution and environmental disaster, it also talks about reducing penalties, introduces traffic and the abandonment of high radioactivity materials. In this respect, I would like to point out that we already have a text and we now renew ourselves to transpose the new European directive, where all the legislation on radioactivity and the environment relating to radioactivity is included, so it is completely incongruous, useless, redundant and even misleading to include it here, but it has been included. In addition, the prohibition of control, aggravating circumstances, active repentance, confiscation and restoration of the status of the places are introduced. All this is structured in the first part. The second part deals with administrative and criminal offences without harm. I think we missed a chance here. The second part has in fact been totally abolished and I am glad that it has been abolished, because it was written, to use a euphemism, with the feet. But its content was right, also because it bore the analogy with what is happening with regard to the legislation on safety in the workplace, namely Article 20 of Legislative Decree No. 758 of 1994, which, in case of substantial danger, but not of damage (so basically the administrative failure, perhaps the cross that lacks on the code of waste or maybe a purely administrative fulfillment), ensures that the competent supervisory body can urge that company to carry out, at most in six months, can be extended only once for another six months if for technical reasons it is not possible to do first, thus avoiding the sanctioning aspect and providing concretely, which is then what we need. But in fact it was misspelled and it was not precise, because, as usual, laws are written for lawyers and not for ordinary people, when instead the law should have the objective to be clear and interpretable for everyone, especially for those who work there. Anyway, as far as the headlines are concerned, everything's fine. We are happy, with the titles it is fast (Renzi docet). But regulatory intervention has not been developed in a careful, focused and forward-looking manner, weighing with objectivity all the interests at stake, as would have been expected. Once again, the harmonious balance between environmental protection and health and business law has not been achieved. As he had come to the Senate from the House, the bill was to be trash. There are many negative aspects that cause concern among those involved in the work. For example, all public and private entrepreneurs working in the field of the environment can be used as eco-mafias. For example, if I forget to cross the famous cross in the waste loading and unloading register at my facility, this is already a criminal offence. So, if I forget a cross, do you call me an ecomafiosa and compare me to the Casalese? This is the text of the bill and this is what will result in practical aspects. The word "ecomafie" is very fashionable and is very useful to feed public opinion, which, among other things, is informed on environmental issues only through the services of "Strip the news" but, frankly, I think that there are very few who know the real meaning of it. Ecomafia exists and ecomafias also exist. The phenomenon has extremely precise and detailed contours. The instruments to combat the phenomenon already exist today and I am certainly not referring to the filthy SISTRI that we propose to refer back to the so-called milleproroghe. Certainly we would need the political will to apply them, but this will hardly be done. Why? Because it is much more difficult, in addition to operating a real repression and eradication of all that is "ecomafioso," to operate that cultural and educational intervention that should be done on children at school, together with civic education and the teaching of criminal law, civil law, education to safety at work, in the field of environmental protection and, perhaps, also of road education. I am referring to what makes a citizen a citizen worthy of being a citizen and not a subject who is seen to offer and absorb everything that the Government does (or, better, more often, does not do properly). Legislatively it would have been necessary a Carthusian work, long, difficult and above all honest, to be carried out, not under the spotlight, but precisely in the dark of the rooms, secret in this case, but careful. It would also have been useful to ensure that we operate in such a way as, for example, to review the whole single environmental text that we have. There is already so much in this single text, but there are also rules and prescriptions in total contrast to what we are putting into this draft law. So, then, in the case of a crime, what penalty will we apply? What is provided for by Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006, still in force, or the one contained in the provision that we begin to approve? Let's also say it would have been helpful to be able to discourage ecomafiosis. With this rule we tickle them. I remember that, once, for the environmental disaster, the code Rocco preceded life. Now we give 15 years to those who commit this crime. All in all, we've reduced certain pains. However, by entering into the technical merit of the measure, I would like to emphasize that the crimes in this matter... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you should come to the conclusion. FUCKSIA (M5S). Environmental crimes already exist and already provide severe penalties and very heavy financial penalties: arrest and imprisonment for up to six years, confiscate and suspension of conditional restoration. For example, the sanctioning frameworks of parts 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of Legislative Decree No 152 et seq. Moreover, several cases of crime are already included in Legislative Decree no. 231 of 8 June 2001. I understand the formal need to give formal offences a place in the penal code, therefore with a specific article under which the defendant is liable. However, I find it absolutely necessary to coordinate the rules in order to avoid overlaps, conflicts and duplications; above all, it is necessary to avoid a different sanctioning framework between the penal code and the environmental code for the same offence. By the way, can't pm read the environmental code? Can they just read the penal code and the criminal procedure code? Given the severity of the sanctions envisaged, I find the definitions of the various offences too random and discretionary. I mean, if a defendant risks going to jail for fifteen years (which is much more than expected for the crime of manslaughter and almost three times as much as is expected for the aggravated fraud), it would be appropriate for the exact outlines of the criminal case to be clearly defined. Concepts such as alteration of the status of the sites and impairment of the avifauna are... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u80	It should conclude quickly because its time is more than up.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u81	FUCKSIA (M5S). I'll finish. I need very little time. Where has legal certainty gone, which should theoretically be the foundation and glory of our legal system? We're gonna have to do the same thing in the United States where, depending on the court you end up in, you can walk out of it or be sentenced to the electric chair based on how good your Perry Mason is? After all, we only have one of Jarrusso's. The basic spirit is correct, but then it is rewritten. The ideal would have been to put the name of the crime and refer, for the definitions and for the sanctioning framework, to the corresponding article of Legislative Decree no. 152. And then... president. Please conclude. FUCKSIA (M5S). Yeah, I'll finish. I have a lot to say, but I don't make it in time. We need to strike a balance in the norm. I want to close my speech by quoting the thought, shared by believers and lay people... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u82	We'll give you more time if you finish, Senator Fucksia, because it's been a few minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u83	FUCKSIA (M5S). I shall conclude, Madam President. John Paul II stated that humanity is called to explore the environment, to discover it with prudent caution and then to make use of it while safeguarding its integrity and that there is a mutual interdependence between the environment, man and human society, therefore the destruction of the first element inevitably leads to the end of the other two. We take back the precautionary principle, the non-nocer primum, the 1992 Rio Declaration, the Maastricht Treaty, which has transposed the thirteen European directives, and the Aarhus Convention in force since 2001. Let us remember that we need greater involvement and awareness of environmental issues, because we must contribute to EU law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Fucksia. FUCKSIA (M5S). Let us conclude: let us remember that our world is not inherited from our fathers, but borrowed from our children. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u84	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u87	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today I am still speaking in this House to call for an answer to Question No 57, tabled on 30 July 2013 and converted into an oral question, 3-01120, into a 10th Commission. The objective of the act of inspection union is to understand what is the orientation of the Government towards the project Adriatic Network of the SNAM, considered for reason strongly impacting for some territories because of its high danger. This work of dubious utility would cross as many as four regions: Abruzzo, Umbria, Marche and Lazio. Since September 2010, interregional anti-gas pipeline coordination has been established and many national and local institutional bodies have expressed their opposition to the work through appropriate resolutions and resolutions. The most important act in this respect is the resolution adopted unanimously on 26 October 2011 by the Chamber Environment Commission, which committed the Government to arrange for the modification of the layout, but the Executive has never followed up the commitment. I therefore come back here to ask for a reply to the question after having already done so on 18 December 2013, 17 July 2013, 21 July and 25 September 2014, as well as on 15 January. Above all, I ask for this because the project is being carried out quickly and the Conference of Services, which will be held in Rome at the Ministry of Economic Development, has been scheduled for Tuesday 24 February at 10 a.m. To this end, the Provinces of L'Aquila, Perugia, Macerata, Pescara and Rieti, the eight mountain communities and the 26 municipalities concerned by the crossing of the work were summoned. I have also asked the President of the 10th Commission, Senator Cucchetti, to schedule the question, in the light of the numerous criticalities of the project and the precautionary principle, laid down in Article 174 (2) of the Treaty establishing the European Community. A principle, ladies and gentlemen, according to which, in order to ensure the protection of fundamental goods such as health or the environment, certain precautions must be taken, even in situations of scientific uncertainty, where a risk situation is only conceivable. Well, the precautionary principle is laid down as the basis of Community environmental policy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. BLUNDO (M5S). I shall conclude, Madam President. Countries that would go through this work are characterized by the presence of faults with high seismic risk. Therefore, I hope that the Government will not bend to the interests of SNAM and will not disregard the deliberations, but will give an answer as soon as possible to clarify.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u88	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-389.ana.u89	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 12 February, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.55 p.m.
