ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 9 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation begins (11:08 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the meeting of the Presidency Council scheduled for yesterday at 4.30 p.m. did not take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u11	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, on behalf of my Group, but I am also sure on behalf of the whole House, I would like to express a feeling of support, solidarity, concern and of course also condolences for the very serious attack that took place in Ankara a few days ago. I believe I interpret the thinking of the whole House in showing condolence and solidarity to the survivors, to the families of the victims, to their friends, to their party comrades, to the HDP, to the Kurds and to the Turks who have been victims of this infamous attack, which is also the third in a short time, after the Diyarbakir massacre and that of Suruç, which are bleeding that region. I think that we and the Italian Parliament must have not only the mourning and solidarity, but also the firm will to work with them in every way, so that that country does not fall on the brink of a possible new civil war. I would like to ask the Government, the Minister of Defence - who is here in the Chamber - and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to be present in Parliament over the next few days, to discuss and understand what initiatives the Italian Parliament can take in support of all Turkish and Kurdish democrats who do not resign themselves to the fact that their country is rushing into a spiral of violence and war. I also believe, and I say this to Minister Pinotti, that all the instruments of international diplomacy should be put in place to ensure that the responsibilities of the Ankara massacre are established as soon as possible, including by imagining an international commission of inquiry investigating what has happened, not least because it will not escape anyone who has convened elections on 1 November in Turkey. Once again, this is a very delicate political step. I do not know very well how elections can be held in a context in which one of the opposition parties, in fact, cannot make the election campaign because when it organizes meetings and demonstrations bombs are exploding. I believe, however, that everything must be done so that our country does not feel called out of this affair and can make its contribution to guaranteeing maximum democracy and the maximum regularity in the conduct of the elections on 1 November. The HDP has long been calling for international observers on Turkish territory in those days and I think that this should be an assessment that the entire Italian Parliament should carry out and not just some political groups. Moreover, the Senate of the Republic, a few months ago, unanimously adopted a unitary agenda and so, I say this once again to Minister Pinotti, I believe that a few more steps must be taken because I believe that Europe can express itself clearly and remove once and for all the Kurdistan Workers' Party from the so-called black list. It would be a very important answer, and it would prove that Italy does not simply mourn the dead and cling to their families, friends and companions but actually contributes to peace and democracy. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL, PD and AUT Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u14	LATORRE (PD). Mr President, we in the Group of the Party of European Socialists believe it is right to call on the Senate of the Republic first of all to participate in a great spirit of solidarity in the tragedy that has struck Turkey, also because of the large number of victims. I believe that in those hours we all felt strongly involved in a drama that explodes, moreover, in a country that, at this time and in that scenario, is neuralgic; it is not by chance to find itself on the border with another place theatre of equally dramatic events, that is Syria, and in an overall destabilized area in which a large part of the desirable future of peace is played around the world. It is well known that, from this point of view, our country is committed, with its Government, to filling a serious gap, namely the serious absence of Europe as such in this debate. I believe that one of the reasons and - alas - also for the difficulties of the crisis and the destabilisation that that country is experiencing lies in the responsible delay with which Europe has dealt with the issue of Turkey's desirable entry into the European Union. If we had done so then, when this battle should have been carried out to the end, we would have made a major contribution to stabilising the country democratically, to enhancing an orientation in a non-radicalized Islamic world and probably also made a very serious contribution to stabilising the area overall. It was another serious responsibility of a Europe which - alas - was slow to take on the issue of foreign and defence policy in a unified manner as one of the fundamental assets on which to focus. In this direction we are working hard: our Government is working; our Ministry of Defence is working to try to raise awareness on this area also for other European countries; the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working and our President of the Council has also worked intensively, as demonstrated by some small but significant results. I am referring to the fact that I have finally taken on a number of issues, such as migration flows, as European issues that do not only concern one country. However, we are still far from the fundamental objectives that must be pursued, starting with that of being able, by our initiative, to promote an active and collaborative role of the great powers, the United States and Russia, because only together, with an agreement between the great powers, our participation and that of Europe, can we, on the one hand, strengthen our fight against international terrorism and the so-called Islamic State, on the other hand, really contribute to stabilising the situation in that area. In this spirit and with this awareness we know that there is a lot of work to be done and we know - and I agree with that - that it is probably appropriate for Parliament to give serious consideration to everything that is happening. In this respect, I would like to recall the recent meeting of the Foreign and Foreign Joint Commissions, at which the Foreign Minister announced his willingness and direction to pursue a debate of this nature. Of course, at this moment, alongside these reflections, our feelings of strong solidarity to that country, to that people and above all to the victims of this dramatic attack emerge. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u15	In the second order of the tribune are attending to our works the teachers, the students and the students of the Institute including St Augustine, of Civitanova Marche, in the province of Macerata, to whom we address our greetings. [[Applause]] In the first order of the tribune instead are following our debate the teachers, the students and the students of the Institute including Cercemaggiore, plexus of Sepino, in the province of Campobasso, to which we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u18	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the feelings of indignation and sorrow of our group's senators are completely in line with those expressed in this House by Mr De Cristofaro. We are very concerned, not concerned, about the repetition of terrible and increasingly hateful attacks near the electoral deadline of 1 June. The other hateful attacks had also taken place shortly before or shortly after the opening of the polling stations and had always been targeting sympathizers and potential voters of the Demirtas party. That is why all the ideas, even the most disturbing ones, are on the agenda. With regard to the proposal put forward by Mr De Cristofaro for an international inquiry, I asked myself, while he stated what the international forum could be capable of promoting it. I can only identify the members of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly or the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Obviously, if the Italian representatives make proposals in this regard, it is their autonomy of judgment, but also their balance, to formulate proposals that are not of pre-emptive mortification to the national sovereignty of a country that has been friend and ally of ours in so many international situations, but that for some years - and perhaps more than a few years - after the brutal refusal of the European Union to have it as a partner, seems to be looking for an identity of international politics quite different from those traditionally Western. I do not forget that for many years Turkey was a friendly and allied country of the Atlantic Alliance - they were even nicknamed "the Bulgarians of NATO" - and it was a country, until about ten years ago, traditionally very friendly, also at the level of security services, of the State of Israel. This context seems to be relegated to the past: hence the concern for Turkey's political set-up and position in the international scene, but above all the anguish in the face of crimes such as that of last weekend in Ankara and a great concern for moderation but also of firmness in order to respect the times and democratic modalities of the electoral appointment of 1 November in Turkey. [[Applause from Senators Chiavaroli and Dalla Tor.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u21	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, I rise to add the words and sentiments of condolence and closeness to the Turkish people and to express the outrage and regret at the dramatic events that have been brought to us by the news with devastating images and which become even more worrying about the profiles of democracy that must be guaranteed in that country, if we think that this dramatic event happens on the eve of an electoral round. I believe that not only the ancient relationships of friendship that have linked and link our country to Turkey, but also the obligations of civil coexistence in the international panorama must commit us to add, in addition to the indignation and lamentation, our firm commitment to bring every form of contribution, in the awareness that the events that have taken place today evaluate and deplore the reasons connected with Turkey's geopolitical position in the chessboard that in that territory assumes a particular importance for the relaunch of a policy that builds a solid and lasting perspective of peace. For these reasons, Mr President, I believe that I can share what my colleagues have said, with the hope that the Government will continue to devote the utmost attention to its action already demonstrated, but that it will also continue in its relations with other countries at international level. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u24	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, we too want to show our solidarity with the Turkish people and, in particular, with the pacifist movements, which have been directly involved. Just this morning we heard that two children were killed in this massacre. In this regard, next Thursday the 5 Star Movement will be in Ankara to meet the associations, engineers, doctors and political parties, who are directly involved in this dramatic situation. We also support the proposal for an international investigation, in order to understand well what has happened and not reduce the conclusions to the fact that it was ISIS that carried out the attack: we believe that it is necessary to go a little further to the bottom of the matter. Finally, we are prepared to be observers at the next elections on 1 November, so that democracy can have a great deal of space in Turkey and can overcome the current instability. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u25	If there are no other speeches, I call on the House to observe a minute of recollection and silence, in order to express solidarity with the families and victims of this tragic attack. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]] I suspend the sitting which will resume at 3 p.m. with the final explanations of vote, broadcast live on television, on the draft Constitutional Reform Act. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 11.28 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u26	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 1429-B, which was first approved by the Senate and first amended by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that at Friday's sitting we concluded the examination of the articles, in the text including the amendments made by the House of Deputies. I'm sensing that RAI's live TV is on.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u29	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already expressed in general discussion my criticism of the way in which the Government has been constituted, leaving to a Parliament delegitified by the Constitutional Court's ruling on electoral law the only choice to align itself or to oppose a reformist plan already given and which could not be modified in its essential elements. I have not spared myself in highlighting the criticalities and inconsistencies of the reform: among them, the most important has been overcome with the amendment to Article 2 which gives greater democratic legitimacy to the Senate. It was a necessary change for a High House, which can veto future changes to the Constitution. Of course, we would certainly have achieved a better result if there had been greater openness to the contribution of opposition, but it is not true that this reform will lead us to a different form of government or, as some have argued, to an absolute premiere. This reform, on the contrary, adapts the institutions to a change that happened decades ago, when the Italians voted by referendum in favour of the majority system: it does so by strengthening some guarantees for minorities, increasing the quorum for the election of the President of the Republic, for example, by providing the statute of opposition or even, not least, by making the Senate independent from the bond of trust with the Government. We believe that, never as now, it is necessary to give the word to the people, subjecting this text to a referendum: we will commit ourselves, as Italy of the Values, to inform the citizens so that they are aware of the importance of their choice. We will do so with the intellectual awareness and honesty of those who acknowledge the merits and limitations of this reform and will not make electoral propaganda about our Constitution. Of course, my speech was much longer, but given the time available to me, I would ask the Presidency to allow the text of the speech to be appended to the proceedings. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u30	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u33	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been debating this change in the Constitution desired by the Government for a few weeks now. We from the other Europe with Tsipras invited you to reflect, citing the institutions of law, the great Italians, the Constituents and the values that were inspired, those same values that allowed Italy to grow for the first thirty-five years after the war. We tried to convince you with the words you used against the Berlin referendum in 2005, defeated in the referendum, but nothing. Renzi wanted to and you said yes. Some of you tried to resist, but then caved in to save the party. What about the Italians? Those who ask for a better life and in response have closed hospitals, fewer hours of school lessons and less care for children in difficulty; those that we cannot help, because Europe asks us to save on pensions. That is why you need this amendment: you need Parliament to be reduced to an elected House with a huge majority prize, masters of deciding against the will of those who elect you. A House put up with the vote of a few, since by now more and more disdained Italians desert the vote. It will be impossible to distrust the Government, while it will build incinerators near the houses, crush the right to strike, close hospitals and design a bridge to unite regions without roads. Scroller? Renzi only destroys the dissidents, rip out those chairs that he and his faithful, old and new, are occupying, using the same old glue as ever. The Italians, however, do not believe the fairy tales that Matteo Renzi tells when he goes on television and speaks without being contradicted. We will explain to every street corner what the PD of our country wants to do and you will see that those same citizens will reject this attempt to transform the Italians into a people of precarious democracy. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u36	REPETTI (Misto-IPI). Mr President, this reform of the institutions that has been awaited for decades has finally become a reality, which means that the legislature, which was born with an uncertain electoral outcome, has become capable of major reforms in the social and economic fields. It is also a constituent legislature and no one can deny that this was possible thanks to the profound change in the Democratic Party, first with the election as secretary of President Renzi and then with the birth of his Government. This turning point has been made thanks to the courageous choices of the majority allies, starting with the party of Angelino Alfano; moreover, due to the obvious crisis of the center-right, many other parliamentarians as well as myself have decided, for the sake of consistency and in the interest of the country, to confirm the vote already given last year. In short, after decades of unnecessary debate, this Parliament can finally make a decisive contribution to overcoming the perfect bicameralism. Too bad, Mr President, that, unfortunately, during the debate, many people have focused everything on the political confrontation at the expense of content, even calling for the threat to democracy and the risk of a regime, forgetting in fact the most important thing, that is that the citizens will say the last word. The truth is that this is an overwhelming victory for democracy in this Parliament too and I am sure that the referendum will confirm it, because this reform will make our country more modern, with institutions capable of making rapid decisions and, at the same time, representing the needs and interests of citizens, of civil society, through the participatory system of Municipalities and Regions. That is why, in concluding, Mr President, I declare the vote in favour, free and convinced of Together for Italy. [[Applause from the Misto-IPI, PD, AP and (NCD-UDC) groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u39	Bisinella (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, when people read the political chronicles, they can only be shocked. Over the past few weeks, the citizen has witnessed a battle on the reform of the Senate in this House with technicalities and paragraphs that has not changed his day, nor certainly his life, while he has remained wondering when someone will come to deal with youth unemployment and why this problem does not deserve at least the same attention. It was a battle of forceful blows, on one side as well as on the other, determined by a useless as in the inconclusive facts obstructionism made only of screaming and insults. In the end we do not understand what is the representative principle to be protected, that is, whether it is the good of the country, of businesses, of young people or the search for consent in itself. The clash is only between slogans, which of course are used with precise partisan purposes that have little to do with what one wants to reform. That is how it happened in this House: party symbols used by oppositions as more than thoughtful reasonings. Then we wonder why fewer and fewer people are voting. We don't. We do! We have been confronted civilly on the content and in the substance proposing few sensible changes. We believe that on reforms such as this we must face up to ourselves in the interest of those outside waiting for things to be done. We are not to block the country, but to restart it; we want to make a constructive and concrete contribution for families and businesses to be competitive again. The text is not the best of all possible. In our opinion, it was also necessary to influence the number of Members of the Chamber (the same remains) in order to cut more because it is always excessive, and to outline a Title V less moved towards the central State and more oriented towards the Regions. I conclude by saying that, however, thanks to our serious and concrete opposition, we have managed to improve the content of the reform, to give more competence to the virtuous regions, with more powers under Article 116 of the Constitution in the field of social and foreign trade. It remains a regret: that the coordination of public finance, a vital issue for territorial authorities, has not been removed from the exclusive competence of the State, the only way to give substance to what remains for us the most important reform to implement in the country, the one in the federal sense. For these reasons, on the whole of the measure the vote of the Mixed-Doing Group! will abstain. [[Applause from the Mixed-Doing Group!]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u42	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). President, Senators, what you are preparing to vote at the third reading is a constitutional reform that dissolves the identity of the Republic born from the Resistance, as they say today on the manifesto of seven of the most eminent Italian constitutionalists, which I want to remember here all: Gaetano Azzariti, Lorenza Carlasare, Gianni Ferrara, Alessandro Pace, Stefano Rodotà and Massimo Villone. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Mussini]] It is a reform that, together with the electoral law that you have imposed with confidence, blows the democratic balances that the Constituents had drawn and hands over the country to a Government of Premier, where everything will be decided by the Government or more exactly by the Head of Government. It changes our parliamentary democracy in fact and radically, because Parliament, that is, the legislative power, will take on an ancillary role vis-à-vis the Commission. This reform was built to give more power to power and less power to citizens. Behind the high-sounding definition you use, of deciding democracy or ruler there is only this bitter truth: it is the transition to what many scholars call post-democracy. It is no coincidence that, instead of strengthening the instruments of direct democracy, you have taken the opposite path, further reducing the power of citizens. It is exactly the opposite of what would have been necessary to strengthen our democracy and resolve the crisis of citizens' confidence in the institutions, which is manifested with an abstentionism that has never been seen. To achieve this goal the narrative of the Constitution of '48 has been built for years as obsolete, a brake on the growth of Italy. The faults of ruling political classes, unable to advance the country and give solutions to its dramatic problems, have been dumped on the Constitution. To this lying narrative, Renzi added the easy propaganda of Senate reform as a cut of three hundred senators with relative allowances. It is also a lying and from above demagoguery, which has deliberately ignored all the other solutions that we and the other oppositions proposed for the reduction of parliamentarians and costs. A smoke screen, which aims only to hide the real objective: to reverse the balance between the powers defined by the Constitution. Part II of the Constitutional Charter is put in hand by pretending to preserve the first, the one on fundamental rights and principles, whereas in reality it is precisely those principles that are dismantled, starting with Article 1, which states that sovereignty is of the people, not of the Premier or of the strongest party secretary. The people! Moreover, on the constitutionally protected rights front you have long been at work to demolish those principles and remove those rights, with all your so-called reforms, from that of work to that of school. The government's propaganda, backed by the vast majority of an information system never so docile and obedient, wants to make the opposition to this reform pass through conservatism and corporate resistance to change. But the question was not to defend the current situation at all costs, in particular the current role of the Senate, or the perfect bicameralism, but to replace, modify the current system of guarantees with other stronger guarantees and not that they were taken away, they diminished as they did instead. The result of this reform, in the end, will be a Chamber of Deputies which, thanks to Italicum, will have more than four hundred Members appointed, the result of blocked lists and multi-candidates, and which will therefore be greatly weakened its representativeness. The Senate will be reduced to the smallest terms, as numbers and functions, and therefore without any role of rebalancing. And by the way, it will be the result of a second-level election. Yes, at second level, because the very modest change introduced for the election of senators, a small escapism that involves a very complicated mechanism to be identified by a future law, not only will not change this fact, but it risks being an additional element of delegitimization in the eyes of citizens. The representativeness of the Senate, also towards those territorial institutions that it should represent, will be very weak and conflictual. The risk that it will be resolved in a sort of post-work, inherent from the beginning in the double mandate of mayors and advisers, becomes almost a certainty with this text. The Senate will be completely marginal and then it might as well have been completely eliminated. The massive majority prize, aggravated by the introduction of the ballot, will ensure that a de facto minority party in the country has an absolute majority of seats and that it is therefore able to elect the President of the Republic alone, the judges of the Constitutional Court, theSM. It can do so without the burdens and counterweights that constitute the essence of modern democracies both parliamentary and presidential. If then the winner is also the secretary of the party and, therefore, the one who decided the lists and, therefore, the elected, here is that the House becomes totally subordinate to the Head of Government - it is the chain of command that is overturned - and called only to ratify the decisions of the Executive. You are today creating a constitutional monster that will entrust all the powers to one leader and you are doing it through a path full of force, wrongdoing, procedural tricks, with a majority repulsed by refugees and transformers of all kinds. The sense of this reform is perfectly understood already in the method by which it is being approved: a humiliated Parliament, completely without a voice in the matter and any discussion confined to the borders of the majority party, of the PD alone. The 1948 Constitution was the highest synthesis of different ideas and visions of the world. This reform of yours is the result of the sharing not of De Gasperi, Nenni, Togliatti and Calamandrei, but of Renzi and Verdini. You are doing so by betraying the electoral programme with which we and you, colleagues in the PD, have been elected and we have committed ourselves to the citizens. When the path of your so-called reforms (electoral law and constitutional reforms, a reform of the public administration that demolishes the constitutional principle of impartiality, a reform of the school that bends public school to business logics, the jobs act that eliminates workers' rights and erases the dignity of work) will have completed a process of real substitution of the model of democracy, state and the economic and social model outlined in the Constitution, born of resistance. All these reforms lead to a new institutional framework that is realized with the figure of man only in command and sterilization of constitutional principles and values. Constitutional reform is a bit the Piave line, on which this process can be stopped. You think you have won today, but remember that every time the people have been called upon to express themselves on such reforms they have rejected them. Also this time the referendum will not be a walk for you and will send back to the sender - we are sure - the attempt to upset our Constitution; and other referendums will fail your good school, your jobs act and the mess you want to make of our sea. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bignami, Mussini and Bocchino]] We Senators of SEL and many of the Mixed Group cannot legitimize the dissolution of the Constitution born of the Resistance even with the vote against. We therefore announce that we do not participate in the vote. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Buccarella, Mussini and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u45	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, Minister Boschi, we are here at the final vote on a Senate reading of a reform made by a party, the Democratic Party, for its use and consumption. We are sure that the citizens will not get anything out of it. It was a historic occasion that, in our opinion, this Government burned for the exclusive demands of tactics, ignoring the real needs of Italians, giving rise to a reform without breath, aimed at the mere survival of the Executive, linked only by precarious relationships of force within the majority and not only. Some people criticize you because you have done too much; we criticize you because you have done wrong. It was not, in fact, a constituent phase. This reform has been, for you of the majority, only an intermediate stage, a fetish to wave to the bureaucrats in Brussels to have in exchange that flexibility, to do other debt, moreover, that you will shortly need for a law of stability rich only in electoral ads. Senator Di Maggio of my Group has already told you, quoting the words of President Mattarella, when he said: The difference between the Constitution and the normal confrontation between majority and opposition at this time is completely forgotten. In the constituent assembly there was conviction and, above all, the ability to think that a Constitution should be approved for one another, for one another and for the other. Mr Boschi, I am sorry to draw your attention, but this lesson and this example - I continue with the words of President Mattarella - have been completely abandoned. Today you of the Government and of the majority are making your Constitution - you have prepared it and you want to approve it yourself - thinking only of your needs, your opinions and, above all, of relations within your majority. We wish to add words to those of President Mattarella: other than the third Republic, in a few years' time, the current political class risks receiving a judgment of superficiality and incompetence. This is very serious. I move from the most serious question, consisting of the fact that this reform does not abolish the Senate, but only the elections for the Senate, while handing over the second Chamber to the representatives of the Regions, which are those bodies that have largely contributed to the explosion of public spending in Italy. Madam Minister, this is a very serious mistake that Renzi will regret. For this reason, we of the Conservative and Reformist Group had modestly proposed to you the dry abolition of the Senate or, alternatively - the battle for which we have committed ourselves - its true electiveity entrusted to the citizens and not to the regional bureaucracies. But you told us no. With the combined constitutional reform and electoral law you have also eluded the node of the form of state and government. You have produced an institutional mess and the risk will be to have institutions that remain weak within them, but with a first party that becomes very strong - even hegemony - without counterweights. Instead, it was necessary to look at the great models of modern Western democracies - I think of three different examples, but equally useful, such as those of Washington, Paris and London - choosing a model with a strong government (of this there is great need) and with strong parliamentary counterweights. Later - but only after - an appropriate electoral law should have been adopted. That is why we proposed, once again, presidentialism, so dear to the center-right, but you said no. From the point of view of the Economic Constitution, too, we proposed the introduction of a tax ceiling and a ceiling on expenditure in order to ensure balance in the Constitutional Charter. There is often talk in Italy of the principle of balanced budgets (which you continue to postpone from year to year), but there is never enough talk of how to achieve it. One account would be if it were made with expenditure and taxes, for example, at 35 or 40 percent; another account is if that balance, as is the case today, was achieved well over 50 percent of the gross domestic product, that is, the wealth produced by the Italians. Here lies the whole difference between a light and liberal state to which we are inspired and a pachydermic state, expensive and heavy. You said no to that, too. Our amendments were intended to raise the level of ambition of the reform, to increase the strength of reform (the true one) and to guarantee it a soul. Unfortunately you preferred the small cabotage, the one you now mask with roboating tones. Someone might give you a nice quote: that's how freedom dies, under thrilling applause. We do not tell you this, but be sure that in a few years' time people's judgments will be harsh, even pitiful. They will be especially so with regard to Forza Italia, which only a few months ago gave its strong support to the decisive reading for a reform plant that, linked to the approval of a horrendous electoral law, guaranteed today's result to Matteo Renzi. After all, what was the Nazarene Pact but this? How can Renzi guarantee the inability of the center-right to remain united and alternative to the Democratic Party? Today it is very convenient to hide behind the unity of the opposition that brings the figure of the ambitious and transparent work of the Conservators and Reformists who, with courage, already a year ago, within Forza Italia, challenged the line of convenience, the supine one at the Premier. Today we refuse to follow that ghost that has led elected parliamentarians from center-right citizens to be useful to the center-left government. And, together with the League, we represented the true opposition from the center-right. That is, Mr President, with the same courage, that of a year ago, that of today, we in this House intend to remain, in order to highlight even more our true opposition, an opposition which has the ambition to build and not to destroy, because the institutions, Mr President, defend themselves from within, especially those under attack as they are today. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senators Bignami, Bell and Sciliopti Isgrò. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u48	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, fellow senators, the Constitution of the Republic defines our way of being together. It finds its foundation in the desire of the constituent Fathers to recognize themselves in a single people capable of going beyond mutual differences and mistrust, in order to make available to the Italians a just and efficient state, guarantor and not master of the lives of the people. Contrary to what is said, namely that the technicalisms and rules of the Constitution would not affect the Italians, the latter is similar, for this verse, to the rules of the most popular games. If someone imposed rules that allow to whistle a penalty only for one of the football teams in the field, and always for the same, at the stadium there would be a revolt. What should we expect then with a Constitution that, in union with the new electoral law, will allow the party of the President of the Council to occupy the State and endanger civil coexistence? The Renzi Government, in fact, since its inception, has not been able to resist the temptation to launch a Constitution where it does not expect the law to be made to find the deception, but it does make a law that has many deceptions and evaporates, with a language that is revolutionary to circular ministerial, the certainty of the law and the coherent form of our democracy. The constitutional reform that we are voting on today originally pursued three fundamental objectives: to simplify the legislative process by transforming the current bicameralism; to strengthen the stability and efficiency of the government; to reorganize the regional state and the system of autonomy. So, should we have two rooms or just one? The Boschi bill proposes a room and a half. Who will elect the new half Senate? From the people or from the regional councillors? Answer: Citizens will elect it, but through the Regional Council. Better parliamentaryism or presidentialism? Better a President of the Council who acts as the President of the Republic and calls all this: "Italy is leaving again." The biggest novelty is not written in the reform text, but in the electoral law. With a majority prize granted to the party that will have taken more votes, even if a handful of votes, we will have the direct election of the President of the Council, without apparent modification of our form of parliamentary government. Presidentialism, well understood, has been proposed on several occasions in the history of the Republic, but never realized, because it was called by its name and the counterweights were hypothesized. Now you do it, but you don't say it. So we do not have to imagine cumbersome guarantees for democracy. And you're all more serene. In reality, the new Constitution presents itself as an exercise of pure nominalism: new names are given to problems that have not been able, that have not had the courage, that we did not have the intention to solve. At all costs the debate was focused on the senate's electiveity. But the problem is not hanging yourself from the question of electivity. The problem is to understand what the Senate will do, i.e. whether it will really be the Chamber of Self-Government and not rather a post-worker for mayors and regional councillors in charge of expressing opinions, with powers inferior to the collegial bodies of the school. Today we have neither. We do not have the House of Territories, because objectively it is not a Bundesrat, that is, it is not a place where the State negotiates with the Regions and there is no possibility, for those who represent the territories, to really represent them. But we do not even have a separate Chamber, to the point that amnesty and war decide a party only and only in the Chamber of Deputies, where it is protected by the majority prize. On the contrary, I would point out to all those who will be senators that, when they deal with the relations between Italy and the European Union, they will always be asked this question: who do you represent? Are you speaking on behalf of Lombardy or an electoral body that chose you to represent the entire nation? The political agreement that has been reached is political, i.e. it translates the concerns all within a majority debate, which is the real figure that distinguishes the second part of the legislature. This, in fact, is the legislature of the internal torment of the Democratic Party, but it cannot be the legislature that opens new paths to the nation. It is not, therefore, a question of preconceived positions, but simply a judgment of merit that calls this House to be more responsible and to say what will be the article of the Constitution in which we will have the strength, courage and intention to give a new name that corresponds to a substance and not a mere exercise of nominalism that calls with new names the problems that we do not have the courage to solve. Mr President, what a great mistake to imagine that decisive democracy can be favoured by taking away substance and strength from democracy itself. We have simply imagined a path of legislative dynamics in which it is impossible for anyone to contribute to the decision, except for those who - from the point of view of the government - have already decided how things should go. We have made the elements of our parliamentary democracy substantially more fragile, but we have added no innovative element that makes it possible to gain, in terms of spaces of democracy and freedom, to support a truly qualified decision-making process. We find ourselves in the hands of an instrument that will only increase the degree of fragility of our institutions and the reflection of this conduct will only be the increase of the lack of confidence in the institutions themselves. This is because in this text we spread nothing more than the feeling of a proprietary conception of the institutions, which has as a result in time the exaltation of the principle of conflict: "When my time comes I will show it to you"; "when my time comes," with the logic of being able to submit the guarantee elements that govern the democratic process, "I will finally be able to submit this institution - all the institutions - to my logic and reverse the result." We will therefore move forward with reform reforms, because we will only be able to guarantee a new result which will replace the first, forgetting that in history what is necessary is to contribute to the consolidation of the institutions so that democratic life is fully guaranteed and the people's trust grows. I quote what I said in a speech in this House a few days ago: Today, the Head of State, in Italy, is the referee of the institutions and the point of equilibrium of our constitutional system. There is today, around this role of guarantee of the Head of State, a balance, a system of balances, so no organ is without control. With the reform, with the loss of these powers - and, above all, because of the whole text of the measure under consideration and its approach - the President of the Republic will lose that function, because he will no longer be the guarantor of the proper functioning of the system. This task will be entirely transferred into the hands of the President-in-Office of the Council, the protagonist - of course, in full - of the game or, better, the protagonist of the political clashes. In fact, the President-in-Office of the Council is given much greater powers than those enjoyed by the President in a presidential regime. The President-in-Office of the Council, in these systems, always has a fully independent and truly strong Parliament, which is not in the text that is being proposed to us. It should be pointed out that the amendment by President Finocchiaro, aiming at an agreement within the PD, made the conditions for a broader political agreement impossible and frustrated. I haven't found on this theme, better words than those of Sergio Mattarella of 2005: The opposition is seen as a spectator, awaiting subsequent elections and possible revenge. It is not the institution (...) that holds the relationship with the Government, but it is the political "majority" part. The replacement of the institution in its powers is a sign of a distortion of the life of the institutions, of the conception and vision of the life of the institutions. Of course, at the end of all this (...) it must be made clear that there is a concept for which the winner (...) becomes the owner of the institutions. At the basis of this text is the concept of the State's possession in the hands of the majority. These are the words of Mattarella, who I find useful to propose not because there is no different context today, but because they stick to procedures and say a lot about the impossibility of finding a real understanding on the constitutional affair. It is precisely the planning of the strategy to find an agreement within the PD that has delegitimized the way in which an understanding on the Constitution has been sought [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] and that makes it impossible to call this a Constitution of all, because it has been cleverly made impossible for oppositions to participate in the constitutional project. Even before the substance, it is in the method that there is no constitutional understanding. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Rizzotti and Bignami.]] It is not with Forza Italia, it is not with the League, not with the 5 Star Movement, not with the Brothers of Italy, not with many popular, liberal, conservative movements, not with the left, which, with the Democratic Party, won the last elections. There is not, in short, with the vast majority of Italians. Ultimately - and I conclude - the new Constitution reduces the spaces of democracy and freedom; it casts the State into chaos, it produces new conflicts with the Regions. It kills the hope of a virtuous constitutional dynamism because it considers the State nothing other than the gang that won, and it is right that it is the bossy fathers, not the constituent fathers, who vote for it themselves. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u51	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, until now we have played it and sung it among ourselves, inside the Palace. Today, at last, we have the opportunity to speak to the people thanks to live television, or rather, to a small part of it, because the live is held on a working day and at a time when normal people are at work. This means that the Soviet regime and censorship memory have already begun. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Simeoni.]] The people are not interested in this reform, or worse still they have been disgusted by it. People have other problems because, apart from Renzi's numbers and bales, the public debt, and therefore what weighs on each of us's heads, continues to grow, just as the tax burden increases. Stop telling the story of the tax reduction, the abolition of the IMU and the TASI: those taxes our government had abolished and you have put them back. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups and Senator Simeoni]] The taxes are in the DNA of the left governments; not by chance, a former Minister of Economy had said that taxes are a beautiful thing. Renzi and the regime press try to make believe that the recovery has begun, but there is no trace of recovery. Unfortunately, the reality is another: commercial activities close, business activities are gas-fired, entrepreneurs unfortunately commit suicide due to debts and taxes and families no longer even reach the third week of the month. This interests people and not your patacious reforms. The only news that came out of the palace is that of the clashes, fightings and bullfighting climate that has been experienced in this House. And then we complain about the people's departure and contempt for politics and institutions! Today, if we were to do a survey, we would discover that the people would not only want to abolish the Senate, but would like to delete all Parliament and the entire political class, which deserves to go home as soon as possible and forever. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Simeoni]] The people are right, and now I want to make it clear: today with this reform our democracy dies, and conditions are created for an authoritarian regime or even worse than a monarchy led by the captain of Florence. Already with the present Constitution, with the complicity and direction of Giorgio Napolitano, we had three Presidents of the Council never voted by anyone. All three governments never elected by the people have been decided by him, who, as Minister Boschi said, is the father of this reform and, by chance, in paragraph 5 of Article 40 there is the rule saved caste for him, which reads: The State and the prerogatives of the senators of law and life - hence of the former Presidents - remain governed by the provisions already in force on the date of entry into force of this Constitutional Law. Therefore, a small norm hidden in the sea of the final dispositions, made precisely to safeguard the privileges of senators of right to life; an amendment passed in the silence of all and which makes the couple with the Espositum and the Cociancich, but whose quirinality seems evident to me. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] At this point, it seems easy to think about who will be the next President of the Senate and this will allow you to realize the fantastic ternal: President of the House, President of the Republic and, finally, President of the Senate, or rather, as someone called it, of the railway after-work of regional councillors, mayors and senators for life. President Zanda is right, however, in saying that Monti, Letta and Renzi were formally voted on and trusted by Parliament, but he forgets to say that those who voted on those three governments have become MPs and senators by virtue of an electoral law declared unconstitutional by the Court. Mr Ruvolo (AL-A). But he did, didn't he? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). It also forgets to say that a third of those who trust this Government and those who are voting on this reform today have been elected to the centre-right and today support the centre-left. [[Applause from Senators Alicata and Rizzotti.]] It is true that the Member is without a mandate, but when one changes his political idea, he must do the pleasure of resigning, because otherwise, if he is elected with one side and goes to the other side, he betrays the mandate conferred on him by the elector. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups.]] I am not surprised by so many events, from Brutus to Judas, from kisses to thirty denarii, of which our history is full and history is always repeated. You have written and approved the Italicum, an electoral law for which it is useless to go to vote: from the moment it was approved, it was already known that to win it would always be the PD and that Renzi would be crowned king for life. But the real attack on democracy and authoritarian drift are born with the combined arrangement of electoral law and reform that you will approve today. A party that goes to the ballot with 25% of the votes and wins it (and this is equivalent to the fact that all other political forces, that is all oppositions, would have 75% of the country's consents), that party takes everything: the President of the Council, the Presidents of the Chamber and the Senate, the President of the Republic and the guarantee bodies, unfortunately understood Constitutional Court, that is a real regime. I smell the smell and taste of castor oil. We all know this: today we approve of a new Constitution, the one wanted by Licio Gelli. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senators Campanella and Casaletto.]] And who was the one who wanted to abolish the Senate in more recent times? His name was Davide Serra, one of Matteo Renzi's sponsors. I have done everything to stop you, with a huge job that has always respected the Regulations and the Constitution; instead you cheated and used a deck of rigged cards. With the excuse of overcoming my obstruction, you have done pig meat in the Regulations and in the Constitution; you have tabled an amendment by the Government under parliamentary disguises and, among other things, with apocryphal signature. Mr President, we are still waiting to see the original of the Cociancich amendment and until we have seen it I am free to continue to think that the signature is not yours. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]] You have made millions of amendments inadmissible, unacceptable to others, and you have kangarooed them, and you have also boasted. You approved the Italicum with the makeup of the Espositum, you approved the reform of Licio Gelli with the makeup of Cociancich. I am not mad at you, Mr President: you, as long as you could, resisted, thinking that there were people, real men and women, not paper tigers, who, in addition to the summer statements in the newspapers, would really have fought for a good reform and instead left it alone. The responsibility and the fault are of Renzi, of the father and mother of the reform, of the Aquilants, of a Government of Ignaves and of all those who today will vote on the reform not already because they share it but because with the last amendment of the Government approved, before 2018 you cannot return to vote: this is the reality. The referendum will be held in autumn 2016, then we took six months to approve the Senate's electoral law, three months for the adaptation of regional electoral laws and, therefore, the 2017 electoral window is closed, with good peace of the compensation of senators and vitalities, which, in September 2017 - that is, after four years, six months and one day - will be completed: And they all lived happily ever after! [[Comments from the PD Group]] It is quite curious, however, that the party that calls itself a democratic party seems to have, every day more, the allergy to the vote: this applies not only at national level, but also at local level. When, in the end, the Martian Marino resigned - for the moment, if he does not rethink it - Deputy Minister Bubbico and President Zanda ran to assume a postponement of the vote for the Jubilee or for not better specified issues of public order. Who are you kidding? [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Tell me clearly: you are afraid of the vote, you are afraid of losing and, in the end, you will lose! Next year you will lose the City of Rome and, in two and a half years, you will also lose the political elections, because in the meantime it will be the people, with a referendum, who will reject the reform and your authoritarian desires. For me the battle has just begun: there will be a referendum and I commit myself to a mountain of meetings, to convince the people that this reform is a fraud. On 8 November, in Bologna, a great event will be held, in which the national front of liberation from Renzi will be born. [[Comments from the PD Group]] I will be there and expect all those who believe in democracy and do not want to die Renziani. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senators Bignami, Campanella and De Petris]] In view of the concerns expressed by my colleagues regarding the reading of texts, I tell them to rest assured: I will publish them. I've done the math and there's half of the government and half of the majority, with pretty embarrassing sentences and writings: I wouldn't want anyone to think they should resign. [[Applause from Senators Taverna and Catalfo.]] But I will publish them in a book, for future memory. Mr President, the League will not participate in this vote and will let you vote on this matter alone, holding this Constitution in hand. (Senator Calderoli shows the Assembly a copy of the Constitution of the Italian Republic). This is our past and I fear that castor oil is our future (Senator Calderoli shows a glass bottle. [[Comments from the PD Group. The Senators of the LN-Aut Group come out of the Chamber, showing the Constitution of the Italian Republic.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u54	Mr Mazzoni (AL-A). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, pending the next parliamentary passages and the confirmation referendum, this House will today write a decisive page in the political history of our country. After a debate that has been going on for at least thirty years, we will finally come to the modernization of the institutional system, to the reduction of the costs of politics, to the simplification of the legislative procedure and to the redefinition of the competences between State and Regions. Our vote in favour is neither an invasion of the field, nor an intrusion into some other garden, but it is simply a manifestation of coherence, because this reform not only we voted on it a year ago, but we also helped to write it, in the wake of a policy that the Italian centre of right has carried on for at least twenty years and that has now, legitimately, but inexplicably, decided to repudiate. We, who in a few hours have found ourselves, as Orthodox guardians of the Nazarene covenant, to be considered collaborators of Renzi's presumed authoritarian drift, have chosen the path perhaps more difficult: that of coherence with our history, not accepting a turn-off, which looks very much like those "contrord comrades!" so dear to the old PCI, of which we have always been proud adversaries and to whose heirs we remain alternative: loyally, but convincedly alternative. For this reason we say to the left of the PD to be serene: we will never go trampling their garden; but remember that the garden of reforms is not the property of this or that party current, but it is the heritage of all Italians, who for decades have been waiting, unnecessarily, for politics to self-form and reform Republican institutions. If this is the right time - and we hope it is - it also depends on our votes, which we have not missed, nor will we fail in the next parliamentary passages. This is not a perfect reform and I will explain why. Better an imperfect reform than no reform. The worst vice of Italian politics is in fact that of those who proclaim themselves daily reformist and, at the last moment, for one reason or another, withdraw together the stone and the hand, so that everything remains as before. The center-right did it with the Bicamerale D'Alema. The center-left did so with the 2006 ideological referendum. They have been so lost precious years and now it is no longer permissible for anyone to plunder. This parliamentary term, which was born without a certain majority and which for the first time sees in Parliament a broad representation of the militant anti-politics, is truly constituent or has no reason to continue. But a new failure would be the failure of the entire political class and would mark the worst possible end of the second Republic, because the country would probably be handed over to the adventurers, the sfascists or the former federalists converted to lepenism. If this is the scenario, it is a political obligation for anyone who maintains a bit of reason to fully support this reform. Coming, in fact, to the combined arrangement between institutional reform and that of electoral law, we see no authoritarian drift, no lack of representation, no attempt to make the circuit opaque between sovereign determination of the people and model of selection of the elected. It is said that a party could win the election with 29 percent and, after the victory at the ballot, control the only Legislative Chamber, without even having the counterweight of control of a strong Senate. So? Even in many other major democracies there are substantial, explicit and implicit majority prizes that lead to winning even those who took 30% of the votes. But no one has ever dreamed of questioning the democracy of the Fifth French Republic or the British system, where low turnout at the polls is not considered a disvalue but a legitimate and fully democratic choice of voters, and where there is neither a Constitutional Court nor a Head of State with a guarantee over the Government. This is called governability; it is called political stability, and not authoritarianism. In his message to the Chambers of 26 June 1991, the then president of the Republic of Francesco Cossiga, stressing the need to reform the Constitution recalled the agenda Perassi, approved on 4 September 1946, by the second Sub-Committee of the Constitution, with which the Assembly undertook to find constitutional arrangements suitable to protect the needs of stability of government actions and to avoid the degenerations of parliamentarism. Well, in this parliamentary term, after almost 70 years, we are implementing that agenda. In fact, we will have a more stable government, because it is supported by a certain majority, and a parliamentarism without degeneration because it is based on the clear distinction of roles between a House that holds the relationship of trust with the Executive and a Senate representative of the Regions and local authorities. The virtues of the perfect bicameralism desired by the constituent Assembly so that no one was completely excluded from the political direction have transformed, over time, into evident criticalities, a ball at the foot for the country system and its development. Two Chambers that both have to vote for the government, with non-counselling electoral systems and differentiated active and passive electoral systems, make any majority precarious. Almost a thousand Members who have to vote on identical legislative texts make the shuttles frequent and tiring, favouring the use of a obstruction that prevents the adoption of measures in physiological times. The end of bicameralism, therefore, is the true historical turning point of this reform. It is the first major modernisation of the institutions, which puts us on par with all the other major democracies. To those who then dispute that this reform will lead to an imbalance in the relationship of force between the House and the Government we respond that there are instead many counterweights inserted. To elect the President of the Republic, for example, absolute majority will no longer be sufficient; and the Senate will elect two constitutional judges on its own. Not only that: the quorum is reduced for the validity of the repealing referendums, the cases of recourse to the decree-laws are limited, the statute of opposition is finally provided. All gold, then? Certainly not. There's also something we don't like. In fact, only in part have they been healed, bringing back to the State the competence on large infrastructures and energy, the dramatic twists produced by the reform of Title V of the Constitution wanted by the left centre in 2001. And an ugly mess was made, to quote Gadda, also from the point of view of twisted language, in the reformulation of article 39, after the PD celebrated a summer congress on the electivity of the new Senate. It is to be wondered what led Vannino Chiti and Pierluigi Bersani to embrace the choice of the elective Senate of first degree, abandoning the position they had maintained for years, when they were leading Tuscany and Emilia-Romagna, in favor of a Senate of the Regions. The direct election of the Second Chamber, on the other hand, is not planned in any European country. The Government and the PD have rethought us in the name of internal unity, but very authoritative voices of that party in the 1st Commission (like that of President Finocchiaro) had remembered that the second Chamber elected through a second degree procedure was a constant of the most recent reform season and can therefore not be considered an extemporaneous and unmeditated solution. The same President emeritus Napolitano, considered the true father of this reform, had recommended not to leave standing, through the election by universal ballot also of the Senate, the presence of two institutions representative of the generality of the citizens, subtracting the Senate only the power to give confidence to the Government. Isn't it bizarre, finally, that an elective chamber controls an equally elective chamber? That within the PD was therefore a confusing and downward mediation, which we hope will be resolved positively in the coming months, so as not to obscure the historical scope of this reform. Allow me, Mr President, to express my sincere thanks to all the senators of my Group who, despite the political outrage they have been pursuing against us in recent weeks, have decided to marry a political project that makes reformism and opposition to the maximumism of the other oppositions the cornerstone on which to base a new political season. I therefore confirm the support of the Liberal Popular Alliance Group for institutional reform, also to mark the deep distance from the illogical position of those who have rethinked and sided against it, taking as pretext the election of a gallant man and an impartial referee like Sergio Mattarella to the Presidency of the Republic. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. (The Senators of the M5S Group and numerous Senators of the FI-PdL XVII Group leave the Chamber). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. [[Senator Scilipoti Isgrò repeatedly exposes sheets bearing the inscription ""2011".]] Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Bravo Scilipoti! SOLLO (PD). It's always Scilipoti's. VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. Buffoons! Mr. President, you're gonna kick him out! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Scilipoti Isgrò, I call you to order: how many more of these hidden sheets do you have to pull out? If you want to make a show, please step away from the Chamber. (Senator Scilipoti Isgrò shows other sheets of the same content.) More paper? I'm gonna call you back to order, and I'm gonna charge you with censorship. Let it remain in the record; the next will be the expulsion. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Please, Senator Napolitano. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if you have not noticed me in recent weeks on my desk, it is because I have considered it more appropriate to be a senator of law, attributed by the Constitution to those who have been President of the Republic, not to intervene, after having given my contribution to the Commission, in a phase of bitter political confrontation in this House, on one of the most delicate areas. I am sure that you understand my choice, to which I wish today to follow expressions of sincere respect for the effort and commitment that you have shared, although from different and opposing positions, in long, sometimes convulsive, plenary sessions, within the established timetable and with a view to its final expiry. Needless to say, the day-to-day development of the calendar, until the expected deadline, would not have been possible without the extraordinary effort of the Presidency and its collaborators, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, of the representatives of the Government and of all the staff of the Senate. My vote in favour of this law is linked to my not solitary and long-standing beliefs in constitutional reforms. I have repeatedly expressed and argued by the President of the Republic, in consultation on this matter many times in the last parliamentary term with the political-parliamentary forces of majority and opposition and finding at least formal, broad convergences, as documented by the communications with which I have given it from time to time public news. On the other hand, the request that I was made for the re-election of President and the acceptance to which I was strongly urged were anchored in a largely common commitment to resume and bring to conclusion the reforms dropped and in this regard you will remember the strong regret expressed by me in the message to Parliament of 22 April 2013. In fact, the reform process started again after the formation of the Letta government, on the basis of a mandate of Chamber and Senate by overwhelming majority and with the help of a commission of high-level scholars. It was then up to the current Government to assume the responsibility to present, in April 2014, the constitutional bill. Today, however, I will not repeat or recapitulate the terms of the dispute, which lasted until the last day during the third reading of the constitutional reform. I believe that the substance of the objectives pursued and the changes that are beginning to be introduced into our system can be much more important for citizens and for the country. Objectives that in the debate of these weeks have reiterated that they also want political forces and parliamentary groups drastically dissenting from the solutions adopted and supported by the government. It is a fact that we are now beginning to overcome the vices of equal bicameralism: repetitive and non-virtuous competitions between the two branches of Parliament, the increasingly serious absence of linearity and certainty in the legislative process, even in important and urgent matters, and a fundamental defect of our representative democracy because it did not associate the representation of regional and local institutions with the summit of the constitutional structure. We are going to be able to guarantee, at least for essential aspects, that stability and continuity in government action that can no longer be lacking, except with serious damage to the country, in a future like what has already begun. To critically check how much you want, if you can use the solutions adopted with the draft law that we are about to approve, it will be up to everyone. Getting ready to put the new Senate into practice will be everyone's job. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not simply closing the accounts with the frustrated attempts and the inconcluencies of thirty years; we must respond to new situations and to pressing needs, reform - enriching them - our parliamentary democracy. Beyond the adoption of the draft constitutional law under discussion, attention should also be paid to all the concerns expressed in recent weeks regarding electoral legislation and constitutional balance. But the alternative to a positive conclusion of this third reading of the constitutional bill would have been to remain nailed to all the dysfunctions and twists that we know well, from the abnormal recourse to the urgent decree to a misleading conflict between national legislation and regional legislation. The alternative would also have been to remain stuck in the contradictions of Title V, as revised in 2001. On the other hand, it has worked to reform that reform without going back to the centralization of the past and while maintaining, among other things, the respect of the specificities of each of the Regions and Provinces with special status. The overall intention, strongly shared by the Group to which I honour to belong, must be to promote the recovery and relaunch of the system of self-government seriously vulnerated by crises and falls of prestige of regional and local institutions. In conclusion, legitimate remains any critical position regarding this or that aspect of a reform bill certainly not perfect. However, if I think of the many missed opportunities for reform of the second part of the Constitution, I take a cause of it in the tendency, defiant research, each time, of the perfect or the less imperfect. Article 138 of the Constitution has surrounded many prudences and guarantees every possibility of revision of the Charter. At the same time, however, the constituents were concerned - I quote Ruini's words - not to make a revision very difficult in the future, before the emergence of ever new and always different needs. However, starting above all from the most ambitious draft reform of 1998 and its resounding fall into the straight line of arrival, it has adversely affected a fundamental political factor. It frustrated every attempt to reform by a large majority. Over the last year, repeated breaks and misunderstandings in the political framework have been decisive. I am the first to regret it, because it was a defeat for everyone. But the underlying political factor I have mentioned has been in the last twenty years the fatal reproduction of an attitude of insurmountable suspicion and alarm among the sides that compete for the leadership of the country. The truth is that we have not yet reached what, by swearing by my first term of office as President, I defined before Parliament as the time of maturity for the democracy of alternation. It should have meant, I said then, the mutual recognition, respect and listening among the opposing parties, the confrontation with dignity in Parliament and in the other elected assemblies, the identification of issues of necessity and possible, clear convergence in the general interest. Convergence, I would add, on land today crucial for Italy: the commitment in Europe and in foreign policy, the strengthening and renewal of democratic institutions. My wish in 2006 was, if not naive, certainly early. But the need remains and has become more burning. To be aware of this and to pursue that'mature' which has so far been lacking is proof that no serious political force and no responsible person can escape. (Prolonged [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and AL-A. Numerous senators stand up. Congratulations. Senator De Petris shows the first page of today's edition of the newspaper "The Manifesto," with the title on the whole page: "The Constitutional Law that the Senate will vote today dissolves the identity of the Republic born of the Resistance." Senators of the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups are in the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u58	Mr Quegliariello (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Members of the Government, with today's vote we honour the commitment made at the beginning of the parliamentary term, when, before a Parliament unable to vote on the Head of State, President Giorgio Napolitano won his second term of office to take responsibility on the part of political forces and of each of us. That day we all committed ourselves to ending the "long series of omissions and failures, of closures and irresponsibility" that had long paved the way for reforms. Today, Mr President, we basically feel that we are fulfilling that commitment. This is another reason why, as I will try to explain, a phase in our political life is closed today. Mr President, it is true that we have been talking about reforms for at least thirty years (we heard it just now from President Napolitano's voice), but it is equally true that the way in which this reform reaches its fundamental goal, the merits and limitations of the text that we are about to dismiss, reflect the evolutions and torsions of this specific legislature. We at the People's Area acted according to a logic that I could call "gramsciana." We went on inmate after madhouse; we built step by step; we woven in silence, even in spite of ingenious criticism of which today, if we wanted to maramaldade, we could ask more account of someone. We set the reform in its plant first by participating in the work of the Commission established by President Napolitano to unblock the post-election stall, and then with the work of the Government chaired by Enrico Letta. Mr Boschi, among others, is acknowledged to have made sure that the path, in its contents, did not deviate from that initial path. We resisted, even making strong political choices, when the legislature had come a step from the abyss, risking to drag the country with it. We then accepted in a system logic that extended the front of the constituents, despite that act, at that time hostile, meant for us the conscious renunciation of a role of visible political centrality and also of its ministerial translation. At the same time we prevented (first housemate) the enlargement of the front from passing through the debasement of the new Senate to a patrocchio made up of mayors of the PD and notables of Quirinal nomination. Parliamentary passage after parliamentary passage came the other casemates. At first we have helped to adjust the new Title V; then we have brought the legislative procedure back to rationality. We still resisted when the second majority, the enlarged majority of reforms, failed. We worked tirelessly, in front and behind the scenes, thanks to our Group and its President Renato Schifani [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]] And again in this last passage we were right about how to elect future senators, because from the beginning we had indicated in our amendments the solution that guaranteed the link both with the territorial institutions and with the sovereignty of the people. We have worked to restore to the Senate functions such as the link with Europe and the control of legislation, projection towards a more modern role of the Second Chamber. And we made the election of the judges of the consulta reflect the specificities of a Senate of the regions with respect to constitutional litigation. Mr President, all this has been achieved because the constructive contribution of the political forces, at least to a certain extent, has been reflected, in some way and in some way, in a technical forum such as the first Commission, and has been absorbed in the wonderful synthesis work of President Finocchiaro to whom our thanks go. This work of improvement, however, has not continued in this House and this eventuality seems to be the result of the reached limits of a political phase. President, ladies and gentlemen, our behaviour in the last two and a half years has been dictated by the awareness of the crisis that the country was going through, by having understood the lesson given us by the explosion of an anti-system force, by the failed reforms of the last legislature; by the need, therefore, that the two great political families, the liberal-popular and conservative one and the social-democratic one, wrote together the rules of the third time of the Republic and then return to contrast visions that remain antithetical. It was, in short, to adapt the lesson of Aldo Moro to a different and peculiar time of politics. Moved by this awareness, the center-right, at least what appeared under the insignia of the PdL, participated in the Letta Government. And this unchanged awareness then guided us in the next steps, when we defended the path of reforms despite the tormenting changes that have taken place during the parliamentary term. The result we are celebrating today, however, seems to point to a change that puts the original perspective to the test. Mr President, allow me to use a pop formula: if there were two of us dancing the alligalli before, now we are four dancing the alligalli. Because the internal dialectic of the Democratic Party has in fact deepened to the point of demanding mediations as if they were two different parties. And because, coming from the center-right, a force was born, the result of a self-proclaimed parliamentary operation at least and at the moment without a territorial background, with the explicit name of supporting Prime Minister Matteo Renzi in the process of reforms. The outcome of these dynamics has begun to be seen in this House: as a result of the combination between this reform and the new electoral law, the majority of the Democratic Party has further faded the logic of coalition by favouring the negotiation with its minority, according to a scheme of self-sufficiency which, thanks also to the contribution of the Liberal Popular Alliance-Autonomous Group, combines the party's unity with the conquest of the moderate area and common sense to be delegated directly to the Premier. The redefinition of the political field in which the game of reforms has been played so far has had consequences for the reforms themselves. The search for an internal balance within the Democratic Party - I say this with great respect for the labor of that party - has been consumed at the expense of the balance of the system. The safeguarding of party unity has made it more difficult to introduce into the system those necessary counterweights that could not be sought in the future Senate, also because the Second Chamber is not a counterweight in any part of the world. We had indicated at least three counterweights of the system: to widen the audience of the great voters and to provide for a closing rule for the election of the President of the Republic to strengthen its role as a guarantee and to prevent the blocking of the system itself; to establish a Joint Committee on Public Finance as the core business of the Statute of Oppositions; to increase the autonomy of the independent authorities by strengthening their link with Parliament. We didn't get any answers. We believe that this has happened not out of bad will of the Government, but precisely because of the characteristics of a political phase that is announced. For this reason, as an opening of credit to a necessary reflection, the proposals that have not been heard will be presented by us today as draft laws. All this certainly does not exempt us from celebrating the result achieved, of which we have been fully involved. Knowing, however, that this celebration will be all the less artificial the more we will show ourselves aware that a phase is over and that from this phase, to say it with the words of Piero Gobetti, you cannot come out without crisis and without analysis. This is a task for each and every component of the majority as well as for each political force. Announcing the favorable vote of the People's Area Group (NCD-UDC) to the reforms, this is the hope I express, certainly not with the objective of turning back, but to move forward and not give up a democracy in which to face not the system on one side and the anti-system on the other, but the great and different political cultures on which the unity of our country is based. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u61	CASTALDI (M5S). [[The Senators of the M5S Group stand and turn to Senator Castaldi]] Mr President, it has been written that it is difficult to know what the truth is, but sometimes it is very easy to recognize a falsehood. This also fits perfectly on this Government and on the falsehoods built to the art to the detriment of the Italians, which serve to make digest the text with which our Constitution is overturned and which today, for the second time, comes out of this House. The constitution of a great country is never the property of a single part, nor of the government of turn, it cannot be by its very nature. This law that destroys our common heritage is yours and yours alone. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is written by an illegitimate and elected Parliament with a system outside the current Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The truth is that this reform is not a reform: it is a real change in our Constitution. You call it reform to add a positive connotation and then to have an easy game in saying that those who oppose this design, like us, are opposed to change and want to leave things as they are. Then we say it clearly, so that no one can try to argue the opposite. The Movement entered Parliament to change the country for the better, to change it really and not for fake. The 5 Star Movement wanted to enter into the substance of the issues, with 200 clear, simple amendments [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] , aimed at rewriting and integrating the lousy and absurd government text: halving the number of deputies, true direct election of the 100 members of the Senate, exclusion of parliamentary immunity for criminal senators [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] , increase of guarantees for the opposition, forfeiture of parliamentary office in the event of absence, forfeiture of senators subject to criminal proceedings, insertion of consultative, propositive and direct referendums [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] , reduction of parliamentary allowance, abolition of working time [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] You have always said no, no to everything, pleased with your ignorance, arrogance and - I repeat - your thirst for power. We were the first to argue that the institutions should work better and cost less and believe that the legislative process should be streamlined. But what is going on is not an improvement: it is a worsening of our constitutional rules. You have destroyed our form of government with repeated violations of the Rules of Procedure, avoiding the mandatory examination in the Commission with infamous tricks, making use of subjects willing to do the kamikaze of the Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] You have blocked the democratic exercise of popular sovereignty, namely the parliamentary vote. How? With merchandise, exchanges, blackmail and transformations. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Simeoni and Bignami]] All this to ingratiate himself the only end user of this reform, Mr. Renzi, the favorite of Senator Napolitano (what the President of the Republic did by day and night drew up the government bill that you vote on today). [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Simeoni and Rizzotti]] But this still seems normal to us, doesn't it? Reputable constitutionalists have noted that the combination between the electoral system and this constitutional rewriting undermines the foundations of representative democracy and carries serious and concrete risks of authoritarian drift. Those who win the elections, Mr President, have the right to rule, but they cannot do everything. That is why our democracy is regulated. The mother falsity from which all the others are born is that the end of perfect bicameralism will serve to speed up the times of approval of the laws. You are about to approve the Boccadutri bill in a flash, to keep the electoral refunds there without scrutiny of party budgets. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Simeoni and Bignami]] I don't know if you remember the Fornero law. You want to know how many days it took you? Twenty. When you need it and it suits you, you are very fast; instead, when you have to make laws for citizens, you take it easy, and then blame the perfect bicameralism. The government, which is very open to democratic and parliamentary confrontation - I say, Minister - has rejected all our proposals for amendments, from Article 1 to Article 40. And then - allow me - like the last of the cowards, he returned to the Chamber on secret votes, which are useless. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Simeoni and Rizzotti]] This is how you wrote the constitutional reform. Believe me, an after-work association would have done much better. Shame on you! [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Simeoni and Rizzotti]] You are giving impunity to the most corrupt political class in the country, opening the doors of the Senate to regional counselors investigated, sent to trial and sentenced. News this morning reports only the last of the cases of local administrators with judicial troubles. I am referring even to the vice president of the great Lombardy Region, Mario Mantovani, former health adviser, former senator, former undersecretary of infrastructure, arrested and accused of corruption and other crimes: potential new senator. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] Think about it: if a city council is dissolved for mafia - and I say, mafia - the mayor of that city, appointed senator, will keep his chair at Palazzo Madama. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] More than reform, my lords, you have created a clear amnesty. Mr President, you, at a well-known Conference of Leaders, said that you did not want to be an executioner of the Constitution. Indeed, the assassins were the Democratic Party and the Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] She, however - allow me - lent herself to help her, like the one who pulled his feet to the hanged to hasten her death. Yes, because today the Constitution is dead and buried, together with its supreme and fundamental values. Having no longer any interlocutor, we have requested a fair and sincere meeting with the President of the Republic, to reiterate the need for him to consider the power of presidential postponement of the laws. You have demolished the Constitutional Charter, with your superficiality and authoritarian arrogance on the basis of unspeakable Masonic agreements. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] Before today's vote, it is necessary to rethink those 556 elected in 1946, who approved in 1947, with only 62 no and 494 yes, the Constitution: almost unanimously. For us, however, today it is a civil and moral duty to say no. Let's say no to those who disemboweled and sold out the supreme values of civil coexistence and illegitimately took possession of the country. We will not participate in the vote, to point out that we do not intend to legitimise the constitutional change and this House which has made it happen, in order to make it clear to everyone that this constitutional monstrum is only and only your work. This Constitution will not bear our signature, but the indelible signature of Renzi, Boschi, Verdini and, unfortunately, President, also his. He'll even sign the sex simulators, the ones sitting next to Verdini. Senators of the majority, you have rewritten a Constitution thanks to Verdini. To Verdini! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] A multi-stakeholder for corruption competition and fraudulent bankruptcy. You had the courage to make him a constituent father! [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] These are the characters who will put their signature on the Charter that, in 1946, wrote people like Calamandrei or Benedetto Croce. I want to conclude by addressing the citizens, with warrior words, who are words of hope for those who listen to us outside and who are now aware of the reality, ready with us to bring this country back to life. Let's tell everyone that we can only count on our strength, that the country is in rubble. But we also know that there is and is traced: this path is us, together with all the loyal and honest citizens, gathered under a symbol that will rewrite the history of this country. As a well-known song recites, these are hard days, they are lying days. Dear democracy, you will soon return home and it will not be late; you will soon be back among us. Together we will create a new Italy and - believe me - it will be beautiful to be part of it. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u64	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a good day in the history of the Republic. We are doing an act, probably the final one, to substantially change the rules of democratic coexistence. But precisely because it is a historic turning point, it would have deserved a lot more level, a lot more quality, a lot more moral and civil tension. (The Senators of the M5S Group are moving away from the Chamber). It was supposed to be a big reform. It's just a big reform. It was time to change, but not to change like that. But I want to take a step back to correctly frame the path of reforms, which began on 18 January 2014. The much-discussed Nazarene pact was never a formal agreement with prescriptive content; on the contrary, it was an agreement on the method, which provided for the reforms to be made together, and together the changes, improvements and guarantees were decided. This was the meaning of the Nazarene and this sense has been largely betrayed: by the upheaval and approval, thanks to an amendment to the limit of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate - the famous Esposito amendment - of a biparty electoral law in a political order that is no longer biparty; by the election of the Head of State in a deeply divisive way, with the sole intention of strengthening the Democratic Party; by the distortions that this reform has suffered from your vote in the House. What happened after the first approval of the reform to the Senate erased that reforming spirit, but also and above all the framework of overall balances that made the reform acceptable for democracy and useful for the country. No reform sewn like a tailoring dress to the needs of the Party that holds the majority is never a good reform. And even less so if this majority is not the majority of voters. Today the Democratic Party can change the rules thanks to the votes it has due to a majority prize that has been declared unconstitutional, and the vote of senators and elected deputies on a different and alternative political project. The Democratic Party represents a minority of Italians, and changes the rules against everyone's opinion. Moreover, it is also a minority in the Senate: in secret votes, the majority managed to sink to 142 votes, far from 161, or half more than one of this Assembly. With the new rules, the combined arrangement of constitutional reform and the new electoral law, institutionalizes the fact that those who have obtained the consent of a third of the voters, therefore today a sixth of the Italians, can govern the country. Moreover, it can in fact elect the guarantee bodies, first of all the Head of State, who should be the supreme guarantor of national unity, the President of all Italians, the supreme referee of the rules. Was this the change we needed? Is this the right answer to be given to citizens who are increasingly turning away from politics? We need to be careful: what is in place is a progressive delegitimization of democratic institutions, with a removal of citizens from politics through disaffection and abstention from the vote. To introduce rules that still weaken the representativeness of the elected means to give another blow to democratic institutions. And I say this with the pain, the bitterness, the disappointment of those who had sincerely believed that a different reformer path was possible. We really believed that it was possible to face, for the first time in the history of the Republic, a shared reform path, designed for the country and not for the tactical calculations of a political force. I strongly demand the decisions that we have taken responsibly, undertaking a reform process that, in the version approved by this House at first reading, substantially respected the objectives set: overcoming bicameralism, simplifying the legislative process, eliminating competing subjects. Today, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here trying to quickly repair a reform that the House has still changed, in a confused, useless and harmful way, damaging to the foundations the balance between nature, functions and composition of the Senate. Why this deterioration? Because in reality the whole process of reform was only the instrument of the debate, or rather of the fight, within the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] President Renzi and his internal opponents are celebrating a permanent PD congress on the back of democratic institutions. At the same time, in recent years, we have seen a continuous decline in the credibility of local institutions. Instead of being a form of government closer to the people, local governments have increasingly proved to be a burden for citizens and businesses that are difficult to tolerate. Faced with this problem, which is before everyone's eyes, the majority's response was not to return to direct election by citizens, as it would have been logical to do. In fact, the no to direct election was the most questionable line of the Piave on which the Government attested. In order to try to solve these problems, and to resolve them badly, the Senate Chamber had to proceed in forced stages, suffer incredible and unacceptable regulatory forcings, which open very dangerous precedents for the functioning of the elective Assemblies. And very few of the errors present have been given a reasonable solution. On the contrary, in the end we are about to dismiss a reform text that contains contradictions and serious shortcomings: all this in a constitutional law, and in its implementing provisions, that is, in the most important act to which a legislator can be called. Politics is culture, principles, identity: these concepts once found greater citizenship in this House; but also in these days, when the reform was being discussed - it is to be said - they have been called to this House. There is no doubt, for those who have said so, that we will be divided by the vote on this reform, but not by the analysis of what the vote will mean. I cannot but agree with the danger that Italicum and the new Constitution may, in fact, expel from this House cultures and political representations indispensable for our country: the Catholic one, the moderate secular one and, above all, the liberal one. I proudly claim the seriousness of the decisions of Forza Italia: a strong criticism of the merits, maintaining as a polar star the good of democratic institutions. Sometimes, these days, I've had the sad feeling that this theme only fascinated us. However, I must say a very heartfelt thank you to all the senators of our Group for the hard work they have done in this House and in the Commission. The seriousness and sense of responsibility are not much appreciated in this House, but I believe that they are the only way to give the citizens back the possibility of believing in politics. In this regard, allow me to remember with emotion, once again, my colleague and friend Donato Bruno [[The Assembly stands. Applause]] , that precisely in this matter has made a fundamental contribution of competence, seriousness and balance, of which today I feel particularly the lack, all of us of Forza Italia feel particularly the lack. This reform has lost its valuable contribution, and I must say that it is noticeable. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you will probably have a numerical victory in this House shortly. You will have shown that you are able to maneuver in the corridors of the Palace, to gather ephemeral consensus among parliamentarians moved by reasons that are not mine to judge. Those who have failed the electoral mandate will have to respond to their consciences, and I think that is more than enough. With the pride of representing a hard but responsible opposition, with a majority vocation, able to be a real alternative of Government because it is strong of a vision of the country, of a project to be realized and of the capacities to make it reality, I tell you not to deceive you: this is not a political victory. You are only demonstrating a limited view of power, which allows you today to do what you want, but that in the future it will be your ruin. It always happens this way, when in politics every ideal whisper is lost and only the small calculations of everyday tactics remain. We regret for you that you have missed a good opportunity to redeem the Italian left. And above all, I'm sorry for our country, which doesn't deserve this. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] So we, like other opposition groups, will not participate in the vote on this constitutional reform. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations. The Senators of the FI-PdL XVII Group come out of the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u67	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, before I take account of the reasons why the Senators of the Democratic Party voted in favour of constitutional reform, I would like to thank them all for the high-quality contribution they have made, together with the senators of the New Right Centre and the Group for the Autonomies, to a measure as important as it is complex. I would also like to acknowledge the commitment of the senators who do not vote for the government but who have also supported the reform, confirming that the laws of the system are approved for their content and not for deployment. Special thanks go to President Finocchiaro [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, Mixed and AL-A]] , to which much more is due than his decisive work in the Commission. And a sincere thanks go to Minister Boschi and undersecretary Pizzetti [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, Mixed and AL-A]] , who represented the Government so that saying impeccable is to say little. I also thank those who will vote against the reform, setting out positions that I did not share, but a functioning democracy cannot ignore the role of opposition and, therefore, I want to thank them for exercising it. However, I would not be honest if I did not say that, in the course of our long debate, a broader debate on the subject would have been helpful, rather than a prolonged political confrontation on the procedures, which certainly did not improve the reform. Not all the responsibilities for the discharge of parliamentary work are oppositions, although this may appear in some of the previous speeches: some of the oppositions, unfortunately, continue to ignore the minimum rules of parliamentary and political civilization. [[Applause from Senators Puppato and Santini]] Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen: political misconception has very deep roots and corresponds to a more general decline in our society. And I thank President Grasso for his hard work. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups]] Mr President, I apologise to you for the little regard that some senators have had towards you. The central point of the reform is the transformation of equal bicameralism into a new bicameralism. We are adapting our fundamental constitutional values to new political and social conditions: this is how John Rawls wrote about the amendments to the American Constitution for the New Deal. And this thought applies to us today too, that we are experiencing an important period of reform. In an Italy described as a still country, the reform of bicameralism is a huge change, destined to strengthen and together to make the legislative process simpler and more fluid. In this House we have also had tough conflicts, but no senator, not even of the opposition, has ever supported equal bicameralism. The reform could not have been considered complete without a redesign of the nature, functions and composition of the Senate, without the forecast of certain times for the most important acts of the Government and without a redefinition of the relations between the State and the Regions: the latter function emphasized in an exemplary way, just ago, by President Napolitano. Let me put to the record that the Senate should have changed its nature forty-five years ago, along with the Constitution of the Regions. If the new Senate were born then, in 1970, we would have avoided many institutional degenerations. Those who oppose reforms, Senator Romani, should reflect on the political, social and economic cost of our delays. Think only of the consequences of the failure to implement Articles 39 and 49 of the Constitution, on trade unions and political parties. But there's more. The lack of a connecting chamber between the State and the Regions has hindered the process of national cohesion and the overcoming of the very serious territorial imbalances in terms of development and equity. And I want to be explicit. The Senate will have very important functions. He will vote on constitutional and electoral laws. He will elect two judges of the Constitutional Court and contribute to the election of the President of the Republic. It will serve as a link between state and regional legislation and between this and European legislation. It will evaluate public policies and monitor the implementation of state laws: all vital functions of our democracy. But the new Senate can constitute for Italy a great opportunity and a great political opportunity; an opportunity to face with adequate weapons, as Michele Salvati wrote, the most unfair point of crisis in our country: the southern question and the structural weakness of our Mezzogiorno. The choice we made on the composition of the Assembly of Senators (all mayors and regional councillors chosen by the voters) is the right one. If I were to indicate what value should prevail in the new Senate of self-governments, I would have no doubt: to keep the North united with the South, to keep Italy united. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Bianconi]] Today the lack of reliability determines the political isolation of nations and hinders their development. Senator Romani, you were in the government, you were Minister, and you will remember when, in 2011, it was precisely the fall of our reliability that led the spread to 572 and led the ECB to write us the famous letter on the necessary reforms. ( [[Protests from the FI Group - PdL XVII]] Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). What are you talking about? VOICES FROM THE FI-PDL GROUP XVII. Shame! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Ask the head of state. He's sitting there! ZANDA (PD). Senators, I have said true things that you know. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I invite you not to interrupt those who are intervening. So far, every intervention has been carried out without interruption. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). But it says phrases that have nothing to do with it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In any case, surgery cannot be interrupted. So let Senator Zanda continue. ZANDA (PD). Mr President, Greece has also taught us a lot. Today we cannot leave Europe without charging the whole continent a heavy price and an even heavier price, especially in social terms, to the nation that wanted to leave alone. Greece has also taught that we are only in Europe if we are able to make reforms. And Italy has moved on and entered a new phase, in which the chancellors and markets know that our commitments follow the decisions and decisions follow the facts. That's the point. With our vote we say to Europe that the most important of our reforms, that of bicameralism, will come to light seriously. This seriousness of ours will have significant effects already in the next Stability Act, releasing no less than eight billion in favour of development and employment. The Democratic Party arrives compact to the vote, after a long debate, which has helped to find good solutions. Much has been said about our internal lives: even a short while ago many colleagues from the opposition did so and I do not want to argue with them. I'm just saying, PD senators aren't afraid to confront each other. For us the debate has always been a positive value, a strong point. Some people think that arguing, fighting and then joining together is our weakness: I think it is useful for Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] In such a difficult and so risky phase for the country, the Democratic Party rests on the coalition that guarantees the stability of the legislature and the balance of our institutions. It is the unity of the PD and its parliamentary groups that makes possible this season of reforms. In conclusion, Italy sees a clear improvement in its economy: public debt has begun to decline; deficit falls; unemployment also falls. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). But where? Zanda gives the numbers! ZANDA (PD). GDP rises, which will grow even more in 2016; the gap in our growth is reduced positively compared to that of the eurozone and Germany; at the same time, the International Monetary Fund improves its forecasts on the development of our economy. Alberto Quadrio Curzio has observed that the reduction of the gap of growth between us and the stronger economies is more due to our recovery than to the slowdown of the economies of our partners. It is an acute observation: it is the reforms that have put us back on track and even the end of bicameralism equal will help us to grow. These analyses must make us think: reforms are our good way and we must not interrupt them. The legislature, which began with many uncertainties, will end in 2018: there is still much work to be done before the election campaign; and I remind those who, still today, think more about the ballot boxes than about the reform. I'm sorry he came out, but I also remind Senator Castaldi, to whom I want to say that it is not with such modest and fatious arguments that a great consensus can be gained. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] One last political remark: I try to grasp in all the interventions, even those of the opposition, the thread of a common will to help to solve the problems of our country. The political struggle, Mr President, is a constitutive feature of all parliaments. For many years, however, more and more often, too many people have lost sight of the main reason why we were elected, which is to work for Italy, and not just to think about our part or boycott any proposal that is not theirs. [[Comments of Senator Rizzotti.]] In a word, we have lost our sense of duty. Aldo Moro taught that the season of rights would prove to be ephemeral, if the sense of duty had not been reborn in Italy. Well, the minimum duty of us senators is to restore civilization to political life, not to turn Parliament into a field of mutual political provocation, but to protect its nature as a place of confrontation of ideas. Our duty is to put Parliament in a position to do the reforms that serve our country and to do it well. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u68	You asked Minister Boschi to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u69	Mr President, of course I do not want to reopen the debate, but simply to express some thanks, which are due, but absolutely sincere and heard, and unfortunately will not be very short, because there are many people to thank for the work that is being done today. [[Senator Gasparri's comments.]] I would therefore like to thank in the first place, of course, the Undersecretaries who worked with me, and not only in the passage here to the Senate - and therefore, in particular, the undersecretaries Pizzetti, Scalfarotto and Sesa Amici - but also in the Chamber. I would really like to thank you, for the determination with which you have carried out the demanding work on constitutional reforms, President Finocchiaro and with you all the majority groups and I do so through the respective presidents Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, because it has really been done a challenging job, which lasted months, which today has its not definitive but certainly fundamental step. I would also like to thank those groups which, although not in the majority of government, have consistently chosen, and in the interest of the country, to support constitutional reforms. Finally, allow me to express my sincere thanks to the whole structure of the Senate, starting with the Presidency, the Secretary-General, all the officials, the assistants, both those in this House and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who have worked very hard, at a very sustained pace, to allow us to face a complex debate and also to consider the many amendments tabled by the oppositions. [[Applause.]] Finally, I would also like to thank the advisers and collaborators at the Ministry and the Presidency of the Council, who have been the subject of unjust and unjustified attacks by some in this House. I believe that quality professionals, who have always worked at the service of the institutions, with different roles - as happens - and sometimes also for different governments, because in any case the service to the institutions is put first, do not deserve attacks of a political character. Political attacks are made on political leaders, whether a minister or a senator, never on professionals, workers or workers. They are made to those who have the responsibility for political choices. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u71	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u72	TOCCI (PD). Mr President, I had a dream, and let me tell you about it. I dreamed that Matteo Renzi would come here, as secretary of the relative majority party and not as head of government, and he proposed a simple reform: elimination of the Senate, halving the number of deputies and reducing the number of regions. In the dream, Parliament discussed it in a constituent spirit and provided two conditions: electoral law based on single-member colleges, guaranteeing qualified majorities in the legislation on fundamental rights and rules. The result was clear: a government capable of implementing the programme, plus an authoritative Parliament, equals an Italian democracy finally mature. End of dream. This was not the case: the Senate reduced to the post-work of the local political class, the subtraction of powers to the Regions in exchange for senatorial bureaucracies, the preservation of six hundred and thirty MPs, the highest number in Europe. At least, out of decency, remove the word "reduction" from the title of this constitutional bill. You have written a shrewd constitutional text as a condominium regulation and the confusion is not accidental. It was believed that bicameralism and Italicum are discussed, but their combination changes the form of government without even saying it: today an absolute premierate is established in Italy without counterweights and without comparisons in Western democracies. A minority demagogue with less than a quarter of the votes of those entitled can win the stand, command the parliamentarians he has appointed and dispose of fundamental laws as he pleases. No institutional instrument could stop it, not even the electivity - to me dear - of a Senate, but it is six times smaller than the House. This is an unwise decision. It has been said that the Constitutions serve to prevent the moments of drunkenness: unfortunately they have not lacked in the national history, even recent. A 30-year deception comes to completion: the political class on the right and left has hidden its inability as a government, attributing its guilt to the institutions; it has surrogate the loss of votes with the majority prizes, causing further detachment from the ballot boxes; the majority government in minority democracy has accentuated the Italian crisis and the absolute premierate - in nuce we have already seen it in recent years - is a numerical illusion and does not govern the real country, because it renounces to represent it and to understand it in its differences. Young politicians follow in the footsteps of old politicians: they repeat the mistake of changing the Charter by majority blows, fusing the so-called reforms of the past century instead of imagining the future of the Republic. I am voting against the future reformers of the Constitution, those we have not yet met. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-AECT Groups and the Senators Ricchiuti and Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u74	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u75	CASSON (PD). Mr President, I have asked for dissent on this important and sensitive issue of constitutional reforms, because I am deeply convinced that discussion and discussion of ideas are indeed the salt of democracy. Perhaps, at times, it would be easier to keep quiet or stand aside or pretend to be condescending. This attitude, however, especially in this area, would present aspects of renunciation or annulment, social and ethical cultural, frankly unacceptable and devoid of the sense of institutional responsibility that should characterize us as parliamentarians and as people. The time allowed to me is extremely limited and will allow me only to mention the reasons and issues which, in my opinion, prevent a vote in favour of the proposals for reform of the Constitution when we examine it. For this reason, however, I ask the President of the Senate to authorize me to hand over the written text of my speech, especially for the technical part, and to attach it to the proceedings of this sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. CASSON (PD). Thank you, President. I will therefore proceed with the flash. Already at first reading, in August 2014, I did not feel I had to give consent to the text submitted to the vote of the Senate Assembly. I had come out of the Chamber, like other colleagues, trusting in a repudiation of the legislator in the Chamber of Deputies, to correct what, in my opinion, were the real distortions of the constitutional order. However, the House of Deputies has returned to the Senate an even more incisive and incoherent reform text. I trusted in a different senate job, but little different happened. In this reform, I am probably, indeed, not at all aware of a different legal, cultural and social sensitivity and vision on my part. I believe in a Constitution characterized by that intrinsic original balance of institutional, legal and social relations based on a clear and clear principle of political representation, now strongly questioned by the existence of an electoral law, Italicum, and by the creation of an unbalanced constitutional architecture in favour of the executive power, a break in checks and balances with risky effects on the constitutional rights of people. With this reform I have the impression that you are coming out of that original furrow. Too many and too important are the points of the reform that I disagree with, although I share some significant aspects, such as those relating to overcoming the perfect bicameralism, the fact that confidence in the government will have to be granted by one House, the abolition of the CNEL, the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, even if more and better could be done than the number of MPs. I only have time to indicate the titles of the brief chapters of my complete technical memory, which I will deliver: the creation of a new hybrid parliamentary body: the new Senate; the lack of counterpowers and the risk of absolute pre-emieration; competences on the fundamental rights of people and the complication of legislative procedures; confused and messy simulacrum of direct election of senators; relationship between State and Regions: regressive discipline, forerunner of conflicts; the need for further, diversified constitutional interventions. I conclude with the method used, which is unacceptable for a constitutional revision, precisely because of the enormous value of what Kelsen called Grundnorm, the fundamental rule now put at risk. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Groups and Senators Bignami, Bocchino, Campanella, Casaletto, De Pin and Manconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u77	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u78	VILLARI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, today the debate on the reform of Part II of the Constitution has ended, and I, Mr President, representatives of the Government, my fellow Senators, have asked for dissent from my Group. In these weeks the debate in this House - let me tell you - has been disappointing. It is true that the procedure in parliamentary law represents so much, but it is also true that it is not everything and I would have liked a greater balance between form and substance, between procedure and merit of reform. In this sense, the majority and the government have missed an opportunity, because I felt that I had an incomparable distance between those who will vote for this reform and some of those who will not vote for it. A little more effort so it had to be done. On the other hand, Mr President, we have been lost in a debate that is so often barren, and we have missed the opportunity to go into the matter to change a truly untenable regional centralism, to redesign the legislative border between the State and the Regions, which gives rise to a case every three days because of a conflict of attribution between the State and the Regions. Nor has it been addressed the overcoming of an institution which, in my opinion, is absolutely old and out of place, I refer to regions with special status (I have made examples in this regard). This is how we have come to exalt in this House a logic of belonging, a logic of true constitutional bipolarism that is absolutely harmful. That is how the parliamentary status of the Republic came to pass, which, in my opinion, is a real value in these circumstances, which must prevail when discussing and thinking about changing the rules of the game. In the current context - let's face it, although few people stop me on the street to ask me what happens to the Senate because the problems are others - to reform, even if perfect, it is better than not to do them at all. Each Member of Parliament must be an active and autonomous part of the reform process. Mr President, for these reasons my vote does not mean feeling, as I do not feel, in agreement with anyone, nor in opposition to others; it represents exclusively my free and autonomous conviction, the desire to be in the room where the rules of the game are changed, where there is no mistake. I could say that somehow my vote in favour means replicating what I did on the first lap, but I'm not hiding behind that. There is, however, a confirmation referendum that will give the citizens the last word. I would like to mention the electoral law, which is one of the cornerstones of this debate and which, even if it has no constitutional value, is still one of the pillars of the rules of the game. On this point I fully agree with those who believe that it should be changed. Mr President, I am convinced that the government will change it. I, along with those who vote, will claim to be there because I was there today. Mr President, in the end, I believe it is right to be within the reform process undertaken by a larger majority in previous parliamentary passages. On this, I conclude, I invite and urge a deep and responsible reflection to the Government and the majority. ( [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u80	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u81	BOCCA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with some embarrassment that I make this speech. I feel great gratitude to Forza Italia who has allowed me to have this political experience and I do not question my membership of this Group in any way. I do not personally believe that this is the best reform possible. I would have preferred to abolish the perfect bicameralism, the real problem of this country, perhaps by cutting down the parliamentarians of the Chamber and Senate, but maintaining the electivity of the same. Or, if you really wanted to belittle the Senate, you had to have the courage to abolish it altogether. Having said that, respecting the opinion of all my colleagues, both those who vote against and those who abandon the Chamber, I believe it is right to participate actively in a process of constitutional reform that we shared at the beginning, but also and above all to show our country and the whole world that things can be changed also in Italy. I may be wrong, but I disagreed with my group to vote in favour of this reform and then left the last word to the Italians in the referendum. ( [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u83	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u84	MINEO (PD). Mr President, I will vote against because the government has not allowed the opposition to touch the ball: it has used a centre-right transfugee patrol as a weapon of pressure to rip an agreement from the PD minority, then sealed the agreement by closing every change. The Constitution cannot be a matter for a single party and taxis that transport parliamentarians from one side of the Chamber have a name: they are called transformationism. I will vote against because the agreement reached in the Democratic Party makes the reform more contradictory. One paragraph of Article 2 states that senators will be elected by regional councils and another that will be elected in accordance with electoral choices. The principle of direct election, dear Chiti, was founded in the Senate's proposal of guarantees: to the Chamber of Trust and Budget Law, while to the Senate constitutional rights and laws. If the Senate of the Autonomies must be, then better reform the Regions and bring them together in a Bundesrat where everyone speaks with the voice of his Government, or completely dissolve the Senate by strengthening the State-Regions Conference. Instead, we will have a half Senate, an archocerve that serves to hide the true reform, the one not written in the Constitution. With a majority award granted to the party rather than to the coalition we will pocket the direct election of the President of the Council, without correcting a comma of our form of parliamentary government, which will therefore remain alive but exhausted as a girl penetrated by the vampire: I am not the one to say this, but Professor Ainis wrote it in the daily newspaper "Corriere della sera" (Corriere della sera). For eighteen months we have been talking about reform, but we never discuss reform (because we have been talking about it for seventy years, as Renzi explains). I don't think this policy is a dozen. Already in the so-called speech of the sleeping beauty delivered after the primary, Renzi had argued that Italy lacks nothing, just having to free it from the enchanted branches. How? With his policy and doing what has been said but has not been done. School equals autonomy, RAI equals slum, equal work abolishing Article 18 of the Workers' Statute; the prince turns out to be a restorer and hopes that the sleeping beauty will open her eyes to her kiss. I do not agree: we risk a world war, the immigrants arrive numerous and the crisis brings into play defeated presumed as they seemed to be Corbyn or Sanders. Sleeping beauty needs not to restore, but to innovate. Reforms are needed and not a brilliant narrative about reforms. No more storytelling and retroscenists: it's time to ask the Italians for their opinion. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senators Bignami, Casaletto, Bocchino and Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u86	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u87	CATTANEO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was hoping that the House would improve a text that many people thought was inadequate; the opposite happened. Over the past few weeks we have worked in this House at least to restore certain functions of the Senate: the results must be recognised and we must thank those who have spent themselves here, even if there are limits and contradictions that remain, so much so that I have drawn, also in my opinion, an institutional ircocerve. Especially in these months and weeks I was disappointed to see that instead of being a land of confrontation and union, the reform was proposed and lived as a dispute over who would win, that is, if someone had the numbers, however, reduced to modify it regardless, just as it was being discussed how to improve it, all immersed in a heavy climate of anti-intellectualism. I'm not an expert on political history, but I know enough to remember how insuffering for skills has been a map of tragic political seasons of the recent past. It continues to be incomprehensible to me that it has been accepted that such a constitutional reform could be dictated from the outset outside this House. I did not even understand the contradiction of how many of you, within a few months, voted first in one way and then in the other the same text. In addition, I find it difficult to identify in the divisions and recompositions of the Groups present in this Assembly in the vicinity of the decisive votes the country's interest in having a good reform. Colleagues, in this reform your comments and your private and public statements were my compass. When asked why we should have voted for it, most of you have made reasons that are largely unrelated to the constitutional set-up to be implemented and based rather on the opportunity and political contingency we are experiencing. Perhaps because there is little awareness of political balance, listening to you and seeing some behavior, I can safely say that this text is foreign to me. However, if the citizens approve the text, I now announce my commitment that, beyond any critical consideration, the reformed Senate will be able to best match its tasks: I do so in the name of the authority of the democratic institutions that I believe are to be preserved in every circumstance in their dignity. But today my decision is to abstain again (abstention that I am able to vote against in this House). My abstention is dictated by a sense of profound loss and regret for the missed opportunity to acquire improvements that have been repeated several times in this House, in order to equip the country with a constitutional structure capable of facing the challenges of the present and the future. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and CoR.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u88	Before we proceed to the final vote, I warn you that some coordinating proposals have been tabled, which are being distributed, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u89	Mr President, the proposal for coordination C4 comes first on Article 38, in particular on the paragraph added by Amendment 38.5000. As my fellow Members will recall, this is the amendment which concerns the return to the Senate of the possibility, indeed the power, to indicate two judges of the Constitutional Court. The proposal for coordination, consequent on this return to the Senate of the power to elect two judges of the Constitutional Court, amends the Constitutional Law No. 2 of 22 November 1967, giving to each of the two Chambers, in the second instance by an absolute majority of its members, the possibility to elect the judges of the Court. The other amendment concerns the possibility of prior appeal on the electoral law, contained in paragraph 10 of Article 39. As you will recall, the possibility of recourse to electoral laws in advance is a system in our system, but it is obvious that, in the blackberries of the entry into force or, better, in the course of the effects of constitutional reform, a rule was needed that would still allow the possibility of recourse to the Court in advance both for the electoral law of the House, and for the electoral law of the Senate. The electoral law of the Senate, provided for in article 57, sixth paragraph, of the Constitution, in order to be subject to prior appeal, therefore needs, in order to return in the term those who take the initiative of the preventive appeal to the Constitutional Court, that the term is adapted. The term can only be that of the date of entry into force of the law provided for in the sixth paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution. In this case, as colleagues may notice, we are witnessing the real extension of the possibility of appeal against the electoral law for the Senate, since the term can only start from the date of entry into force of the law provided for in Article 57, sixth paragraph, of the Constitution. In both cases, it seems to me that this is a perfectly definable proposal for coordination, which confirms, if not precise and makes effective, the forecasts which, with the amendments accepted, this branch of Parliament felt that it had to make to the text approved by the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u92	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking on the Coord coordination rule.4. Nothing precludes the coordination referred to in Article 38 and the first two points referred to in paragraph 10 of Article 39. On the third point, I have concerns that I believe they should remain in the proceedings. This is not a coordination rule; this is the follow-up to the mess that has been combined with amendment 39.100. Paragraph 6 states that the electoral law for the Senate will be passed within six months of the date of holding the elections for the Chamber of Deputies, referred to in paragraph 4, or in the next legislature. The amendment added to paragraph 10 amended those six months, which are not understood as the six months following the election of the Chamber of Deputies, but as the six months following the adoption of the constitutional reform. It is evident that a mess has been created with two paragraphs indicating two completely different dates. In this case, it shall not be replaced within 10 days of that date, i.e. the entry into force of the constitutional law; it shall be added within 10 days of the date of entry into force of the law referred to in the sixth paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution, as amended by this law. So what's going on? Not only does it introduce the possibility that this law will also be subject to the judgment, but also in the same paragraph it sets two different time-limits, which refer to another paragraph that still contains a third. The mess comes from there and if anyone wanted to straighten it out he would have to make an amendment and call it that; but that is not final coordination. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u93	I call on the Government representative to comment on the coordination proposals under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u94	The opinion is opposed to the proposals for coordination C1, C2 and C3 tabled by Senator Calderoli; on the other hand, it supports the proposal for coordination C4 tabled by Senator Finocchiaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u97	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on the C4 coordination proposal. It is not formal coordination: there has been a substantial choice between which of the two dates you prefer. It is therefore a substantial coordination, a substantial modification of the rule. I would ask you, Mr President, to think carefully about the admissibility of this, which is not formal coordination, but, by making a precise choice on which of the two dates to give priority, it is a substantial choice in terms of one solution rather than another. I think it would have been more appropriate to go over these proposals for coordination and then, as you have said several times in this debate, there will be an interpreter tomorrow who will tell us the truth about this mess. PRESIDENT. - The debate is There was also some call for coordination in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u100	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, so that you can remain in the proceedings - and I thank you for giving me the floor - in the Reports which will have to read those who, first of all, will have to promulgate this Constitution (I am referring to the Head of State), but also those who will probably have to examine this text - or these texts, which are often chasing and bickering among themselves in several passages of this second reading of the Senate - so that the judgment of the Constitutional Court and of those who will examine the referendum proposals may be as precise as possible, on behalf of the Conservative and Reformist Group, I would point out that, in addition to the substance, even in the form, once again, we have added a mess to another. [[Applause from Senators Di Maggio and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u103	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, I would like to point out that it is already in the proceedings of our debate that the coordination activity would eventually be resolved in an actual amending activity. In fact, the things we are talking about today have all been said. On the basis of this, I would like my request for the convening of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to remain in the record, which - I have no doubt - you will refuse.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u106	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group which, as you know, is not here. We believe, however, that we must leave our views on this proposal for coordination to the record, which we confirm to be an amendment proposal, to all intents and purposes. It is not a genuine proposal for coordination, but it is an autonomous interpretation of the Government to something that was to pass through the Parliamentary Assembly. It is a debate that has been widely discussed within the individual articles and had to be addressed in that forum. We therefore believe that, perhaps today, this proposal for coordination should be dealt with for two reasons: firstly, because the House - still, fortunately, there is bicameralism - will also be able to correct any mistakes that have been made (they have been made and we know it well); and secondly, because it is right that there should be this interpreter, whom you yourself, Mr President, called into question during the work, who considered the real will of those who wanted to introduce these wrong amendments during the work, because many of these amendments were wrong. The only proposals for coordination that can make sense today are those on the title: remove those wrong words included in the title. So instead of reducing the number of parliamentarians, we should talk about reducing senators, rather than containing costs, integrating immunity for regional councillors. It should also be added: reduction of representative democracy. [[Protests from the PD Group]] These are the elements that should be included in the title as a proposal for coordination because they perfectly explain the real content of this reform.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u109	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, you certainly cannot say that we did not tell you, when we also discussed the whole debate on Article 39, with the amendment proposal and the contradictions with paragraph 6. On the other hand, Mr President, it ends not only as we have begun, but in general as we have moved forward. This is not - you know perfectly well - a proposal for coordination, but an amendment, an amendment; therefore, in our view, it had to be rightly declared inadmissible. We want these statements to remain, once again, in the record, because when someone reads the Reports of the work that led to this constitutional revision, he will be able to say that at least we had warned and warned about everything that was happening, even from the formal point of view, President, to avoid the mess that is being made. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u112	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, since the part of the coordination proposal relating to Article 38 is so clear that it is unnecessary for me to go back to it, I would like to focus on the part of the coordination proposal relating to Article 39. Now, colleagues know that the electoral law which concerns Parliament will be brought before the Constitutional Court before the Constitutional Court under the regime, i.e. constitutional reform. The transitional discipline, that is, that which applies before the entry into force of the constitutional reform, and that which would therefore concern, that electoral law that concerns the Senate of the Republic (the law ex Article 57, sixth paragraph) must provide, and therefore widen, the possibility of preemptive recourse to the Constitutional Court also to that regional electoral law that is approved in epoch before the entry into force of the constitutional reform. Therefore, if it is a guarantee, when it comes to the preventive appeal to the Constitutional Court against electoral laws, this coordination rule not only extends the guarantee also to the regional electoral law approved in this legislature, but it makes effective this possibility of appeal giving the applicants ten days from the date of approval of the regional electoral law. Is that a new forecast? Absolutely not, because it is the text of the Chamber introduced, in paragraph 10 - if colleagues have the patience to read - the preventive appeal against the electoral law of the Chamber and the Senate in the first application in the course legislature. I don't know if I've explained myself. So having foreseen a ten-day deadline means making that guarantee effective also for regional electoral law. I would not like today's critics to regret the fact that they have given up this possibility. It is an amendment which, of course, provides for a ten-day deadline, as is the ten-day deadline for the pre-emptive appeal against the electoral law for the House of Deputies, and does not interfere with the other two (which relate to the time limits for the Chambers to approve the regional electoral law), since the amendment adopted introduces a quo time limit, whereas the ad quem deadline was already provided for in the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u115	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, since you have to decide whether or not to accept this proposal for coordination, I believe that from the words of the extensor you have understood that it is actually an amendment. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Senator Finocchiaro has just spoken of an amendment. I therefore believe that there is no doubt that this is an amendment and not a proposal for coordination. FINOCCHIAR (PD). No, it refers to Amendment 38.5000!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u116	Senator Finocchiaro has just specified, but in any case the debate has been there and we have had the opportunity to put to the record everything that was necessary. Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by Senator Calderoli. It's not approved. Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C4, tabled by Senator Finocchiaro. It's approved. As a result of the adoption of the coordination proposal C4, proposals for coordination C2 and C3 are not included. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the constitutional bill in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves in first resolution. [[See Annex B. Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u119	IDEM (PD). Mr President, despite my vote against, I wanted to vote in favour. I apologize a lot; I've been sick all day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u120	The Presidency takes note of this. I suspend the sitting, which will resume the outcome of the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups, which has already been convened. (The sitting was suspended at 5.35 p.m. and resumed at 7.08 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u121	The Conference of the Leaders approved the new calendar of the Shareholders' Meeting until 22 October 2015. Tomorrow, at 9.30 a.m., the President of the Commission's report on the work on the draft law on civil unions will take place. For the discussion in the Assembly, which will subsequently be defined, the Conference of Leaders indicated as the basic text the bill n. 2081, at the first signature of Senator Cirinna. The single sitting of tomorrow, for which no closing time is foreseen, will continue with the explanations of vote and the final vote of the bill on the reorganization of financial advisory activities and with the examination of the bill on the statements of political parties, for which the quota of the times and the deadline for tabling amendments at 10 a.m. has been established. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] At least wait till the reading's over! BULGARRELLI (M5S). It's ironic applause! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. At 3.30 p.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications with a view to the European Council of 15 and 16 October 2015. Only the explanations of vote on the motions for resolutions tabled will follow. Next week, starting at 11 a.m. on Tuesday 20 October, the Assembly will examine the draft law on agricultural biodiversity and the related environmental bill. The timetable for next week will also be supplemented by the President's communications, pursuant to Rule 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure, on the content of the draft Stability Act. These communications will start the budgetary session, the timing of which will be defined by a subsequent Conference of the Leaders. Thursday afternoon, at 4 p.m., the question time will take place with Minister Galletti. At the end of the budgetary session, the Permanent Commissions will be renewed. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u122	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, which met this afternoon with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the programme of proceedings of the Senate: - Drawing of Law n. 2054 - Amendments to Article 9 of Law n. 96 of 6 July 2012, concerning the Commission for the guarantee of the statutes and for the transparency and control of the statements of political parties (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of Law n. 1728 - Provisions for the protection and enhancement of agricultural and food biodiversity (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u123	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 22 October 2015: [[Wednesday 14 October ant. h. 9,30 - Draft law n. 2081 and related - Discipline of de facto couples and civil unions (Report by the President of the Commission Justice) - Follow-up to draft law n. 1559 - Reorganisation of financial advisory activities - Draft law n. 2054 - Guarantee Commission statutes and statements political parties (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 15 and 16 October 2015 (At 3.30 p.m.) Thursday 15 October p.m. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea]] Amendments to draft law No 2054 (Commission for the Guarantee of Statutes and Reports of Political Parties) will have to be tabled by 10 a.m. on Wednesday 14 October. On Thursday morning, 15 October, the Assembly will not hold a session in conjunction with a ceremony on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of Italy's accession to the United Nations, to be held at 11 a.m. in the Chamber of Deputies. [[Tuesday 20 October ant. h. 11-13 - Drawing of law n. 1728 - Agricultural and food biodiversity (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1676 - Environmental provisions (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Contributed to the financial maneuver) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Wednesday 21 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 22 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 22 October pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The Calendar will be integrated with the President's Communications, pursuant to Rule 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure, on the content of the bill of stability. Immediately after the President's communications, the draft Stability and Budget Laws will be assigned to the 5th Permanent Commission in the referee and to the other Commissions in the consultative session. The budget session will begin from then on. Further discussion of financial documents will be decided by a subsequent Conference of Leaders. Amendments to draft law No 1728 (Agrarian and food biodiversity) should be tabled no later than 5 p.m. on Thursday 15 October. Amendments to draft law No 1676 (Environmental provisions) should be tabled no later than 10 a.m. on Tuesday 20 October. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2054 (Assurance Commission statutes and statements of political parties) (3 hours and 50 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 10' Government 10' Votes 30' Groups 3 hours, including: PD 41' FI-PdL XVII 21' M5S 19' AP (NCD-UDC) 19' Mixed 17' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 14' LN-Aut 12' AL-A 12' GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M) 12' COR 12' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1676 (Environmental provisions) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 8' FI-PdL XVII 35' M5S 32' AP (NCD-UDC) 31' Mixed 29' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI- MAYE 24' LN-Aut 21' AL-A 21' GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M) 20' CoR 20' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u126	CASTALDI (M5S). Surreal climate even today in the Conference of the Leaders! I'll tell the truth, I'll tell what happened, at least the citizens at home will be able to realize what you're doing in there. There has been a speech - that is called - in which you set out the various bills to be examined and the things to be done, being careful to indicate the measures that bear financial burdens and those that do not bear them. I explain to the citizens at home, because you already know that this is due to the fact that, during the examination of the Stability Act, we cannot discuss measures that bear financial burdens, except for one, which has no financial burden, because that money is already allocated, which is called the Boccadutri bill, which is used to pocket electoral refunds, without the so-called piece of support. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I've already told you what feeling you have in me and I don't want to repeat myself. However, it is incredible that we are presenting this sheet, we explain that measures without financial charges can be discussed during the examination of the law of stability - and then later - and then we place the bill immediately on the agenda: you will even take home the electoral refunds tomorrow evening! This is the account of the Conference of Leaders, which aimed to make you pocket electoral refunds and that's it. Then, since the Democratic Party has made promises on civil rights and unions, you should also wash your face and, therefore, propose the incardination of text 2 of the bill proposed by Senator Cyrinna. It is a beautiful text, but as you have proposed - it only serves to wash the face of those who need rights - it will die tomorrow morning and who knows when it will live again, perhaps in January or February, but after three months who knows what will happen. So our proposal to change the timetable is very dry, because we really are for rights. Since you have also done so for constitutional reforms, we ask you: why do we not incardinate, as you all or most of you want, the text proposed by Senator Cyrinna tomorrow morning and close it on Thursday, with the final vote? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do you remember, Mr President, when you said that on 13 October there would be explanations of vote and the final vote on constitutional reforms? Well, we could expect to vote on this text on Thursday, 15 October, before the law of stability. The law of stability, among other things, will not come to the House on 15 October and, therefore, we will also be able to work on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. So let's put a good stop to it and establish, by that date, the final vote on the bill in the matter of civil unions. This is our proposal to amend the timetable. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u129	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, first of all, I apologise if, during the work of the Conference of Leaders, I had to be replaced by a colleague. Therefore, I could not take part in the part of that meeting at which it was decided, by a majority, that tomorrow's sitting would begin with a report on the progress of the work of the President of the Commission on the draft law on civil unions. This is a progress report, because the work has not actually been completed. We have expressed our opposition, through the representative of our Group at the Conference of Leaders, and we are here, with my speech, to make a formal request for a change in the timetable, to move the beginning of the discussion of the subject to the resumption of work after the law of final stability, that is, at the first session of next year, in order to allow the Commission to work on the new texts which, in the more days, have spoken on the subject of civil unions. The Commission had already worked on the first Cirinna text, hesitating a good deal of amending proposals. There were also other proposals by Mrs Cirinna, but also by Mr Caliendo and others, who were intersecting on the subject. Beyond the delicacy of the subject, we believe that the area in which a moment of synthesis could be found was that of the Commission. I recall, Mr President, when you, at one of the last Conferences of the Leaders, wanted, with a great sense of institutional responsibility, to hear the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Senate, Senator Finocchiaro, to explain or give his opinion to us, members of that Conference, on the inevitability of the arrival of reforms in this House without the Commission having completed its work. It was, of course, one of those delicate passages which is not comparable to regulatory rifts, but almost, because they deprive one of the bodies functional to our parliamentary democracy, the Commission, which is the area within which the law is born and worked and then brought to the Chamber with its own proposals. On that occasion, the President of the 1st Commission was to give us explanations and give us her opinion. With the skill and skill that we recognize them and with a high institutional sense, she expressed an opinion that could not be of merit. He said that it was not for you to give this judgment, but he thought that, after the broad debate that did not lead to a definition of agreements, perhaps a broader area, namely that of the House, he was more parliamentarians and more suitable for the definition of a thorough work of forming the constitutional reform law. But that passage was completed. I, personally, have appreciated it and, like me, so many group leaders. This is the landing place of a law that, even if it is a parliamentary initiative, touches and becomes nervous in our ethical-social system and, therefore, can see differences of opinion that often obey freedom of conscience. But it is a law of structural reform that is not indifferent, not secondary to constitutional reform. It is therefore regrettable that, on this occasion, Mr President, this attempt could not be made on your part, so that the group leader would take note of the ineluctability or not of the approach to this House. For this reason, Mr President, I would like to insist on this request, hoping that, if necessary, we can turn back on the choice made, also to listen to the opinion of the President of the Commission in a similar and parallel way to the opinion requested by President Finocchiaro on this occasion with regard to constitutional reform. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u132	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, you have kindly reminded us today, at the meeting of the group leaders, perhaps some other colleagues, that we have been asking for the calendarization and arrival of the draft law on civil unions in the Assembly for months. The work in the Commission - as we know - has been very complicated and has lasted a long time. We have felt, even in recent weeks, that - as has been done for other measures, although very complex, as in the case of constitutional reform, which arrived without a rapporteur in this House - it was absolutely necessary to unblock the situation and arrive here. Repeating what I said at the meeting of the group leaders, precisely because of the content of this bill, perhaps the House at this point is the best place where everyone can freely express their opinions, which are different and articulated. Apart, in fact, few Groups, which have a fairly precise line, in other Groups there are perhaps different and articulated positions. And so, at this point, I think it is right that we should arrive at this House. All the calendar proposals in which the draft law on civil unions is dealt with will of course see our vote in favour. I regret, however - I must say - that no further steps have been taken: perhaps we could have voted on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, if there were, or if the general debate could have started; I believe that this effort would have been desirable. Unlike those who have wanted to speculate on us in recent days, although - as we know - we would have liked more advanced work, we will work on the amendments, because we believe that this country can finally begin to discuss and do something serious about civil rights.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u135	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am opposed to the inclusion of the draft law on civil unions in the timetable and, therefore, my request is that we delete it from the timetable. I understand well the political situation, which I know, and therefore that sort of pactum sceleris within the PD to incardinate the bill on civil unions and the progress of the PD, which has had some stages in the course of the constitutional reform, as demonstrated by the grammatical article 39 and the successive coordinations of the text, but already the constitutionalists and the quirinalists are bizarre on the point. We knew, therefore, that there was a pact to make the incardination of the law on civil unions, but - as we also said at the Conference of the Leaders - we believe that it is wrong. In formal terms, I refer to Article 72 of the Constitution, which provides for examination in the Commission and has not been the subject of the grammatical revision that has just undergone another stage: it has remained intact and provides for examination in the Commission. Rule 44 of the Senate Rules provides for a time limit of sixty days. I am going to do this to keep to the record what is happening, and then we will discuss it later. Practically the text that we should adopt is not what has been discussed, but another, because the famous Cirinna is no longer there and has been replaced by another. My Group has tabled other texts, through an initiative by Senators Malan and Caliendo, which have been the subject of discussion in the Group Leader. The proposal, however, is to adopt the Cyrinna bis as a text for the House, which has never been discussed in the Commission since it was the subject of a report which took place last night. The Commission's work, due to the clear commitment of the House, has not been continued and, therefore, there has not been a general debate on the text bis either. To say that since the beginning of the parliamentary term this issue has been under discussion is of no use, Mr President, because the text that is being brought to this House arose five or six days ago, it has just been assigned to the Commission and has not been discussed. To say that there have been two years of time is worth little, because the Government's opinion on the previous Cirinna text and amendments, as well as the Government's positions came on July 29, 2015. No one has prevented governments from ruling before, so the Government gave its ruling on 29 July. Therefore, the debate on the Cirinnà 1 bill in the Justice Commission began at the end of July. In August we worked with a very short interruption, but everything can be said except that the Senate from July 29 to today did nothing, because it discussed important things and engaged with diversified opinions. There was, therefore, no opportunity to discuss the subject before 29 July, and there was no discussion on Cirinna 2. And the additional measures that had been presented by Senators Caliendo and Malan were provided for. In conclusion, we are therefore debating a measure in this House which perhaps would have found convergence points more easily and wisely in the Commission - but let us leave it on other occasions, and I address many of my colleagues, from President Casini to Senator Tonini, as well as many others, with whom we have had the opportunity to confront ourselves - because the proposals I mentioned before the Senators Malan and Caliendo of our Group on the issue of rights have been widely open. The problem of adoptions and the risk of buying children or uterines for rent are dealt with, which perhaps in the Commission could have found more easily the definition of a shared solution (if it is true what everyone says, there are already existing prohibitions and this is not wanted). Therefore, the request not to put it on the agenda is aimed at encouraging possible sharing on sensitive issues. In these days I have read interviews, statements by parliamentarians from all the Groups (also from the Democratic Party, for example from Senator Lepri), which show how this issue creates a debate, as is normal, within all the Groups. The calendarization then is only a flag for tacit internal currents of the Democratic Party who gave up on the text of the Constitution that they did not share, but then voted. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] This is the political translation of what is happening right now, so it must be said. After that we know perfectly well that the report will be incardinated and then everything will be up until after the budgetary session, so tomorrow morning's debate is absolutely useless. What does it preclude, however, colleagues? I also say this to my colleagues at NCD, whose President, Mr Schifani, spoke. Since the measure is embodied in this House, the possibility of a further debate in the Commission, which could also take place at this stage, is precluded and solutions are found, which we could also find in 320, but it will not be that easy. It is therefore a propagandist choice, useless and wrong, which is made by unnecessarily violating Article 72 of the Constitution and Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure. I therefore make these considerations, not for boycott or obstructionism, but because everyone has their own views on these matters and - lively God - I claim my own and those of so many other colleagues. Today - I say this also because it remains in the proceedings - a statement by President Romani and Senators D'Alì, Caliendo, Malan, Gasparri and Matteoli has also clarified our position, not hegemonic, not of imposition. These are issues in which I hope that the freedom of conscience hotels in all political houses to allow the best choices, but there has also been an indication of the political position of our Group, then it will happen that someone will not agree, there would be more. I therefore believe, dear President, that it is a choice of propaganda, dictated by congressional needs, so there is another session of the PD Congress also at 7.30 p.m. this evening. Find a solution, because I respect all the political debates, but it is not that we can have it before and after the main meals, which sometimes can not even be consumed - and this is good - because of the parliamentary work. The PD Congress will be an important event, but it cannot affect the life of the Republic. I therefore believe that the timing of this measure is a mistake, because there will be a useless debate, a postponement, a deepening of the Commission will be precluded and the House will be flooded, because in the end they will come up with something else. It is, however, an unnecessary and wrong choice and that is why we propose in a polite manner, argued at constitutional and regulatory level, to postpone the discussion of the measure on civil unions to another stage. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u138	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I believe that the decision on this inclusion is very serious and I would like to explain why I believe it to be so. Article 72 of the Constitution requires the examination of a measure in the Commission: it is a constitutional principle. Our Rules of Procedure speak for two months, but there have been four historical precedents in which the President has been able to take advantage of his right to reduce deadlines. It usually took place at the end of the second month; the only exception was the Cirami bill, which was called to the House after fifteen days of discussion in the Commission, among the very lively protests of the House, especially from the left. In this case, having been made yesterday the report in the Commission (in addition to the night sitting) and having been included today on the agenda of tomorrow's sitting, the President does not use his power to reduce the time, but cancels and cancels a constitutional principle: from now on a draft law can be illustrated in the Commission evening and the day after going to the Assembly, moreover, the only senators who joined yesterday evening to speak on the report that Senator Cirinna did not even have the opportunity to speak in general debate. It is clear that at this point any draft law, by deleting Article 72 (as has been done in this case), can be brought to the Chamber, not by shortening the time, but by passing the principle that a draft law remains in the Commission not even a second. Yesterday in the Commission, after the presentation, the sitting was suspended and the debate was postponed until the next sitting of tomorrow, when the measure was already incardinated in this House. I will also move on to the proposal to remove from the agenda the examination of this measure and to include another. I remember that, contrary to the lies that are being told, we were able to start working at the beginning of July because the government, not sending the technical report, did not put us in a position to start the work. We had a few sessions at the beginning of August - we did thirteen in all - and we arrived at 20 September. We have disposed of 25% of the amendments in 21 days - not two years - and we would have finished all the work in the Commission. Who says that this text has been stopped for two years tells a solemn lie to the country. We have been working twenty-one days since the Government allowed us to work, as we were unable to vote on the amendments as soon as the technical report was missing. Last Friday we withdrew 400 amendments and there were not several million of ours, but only a few hundred; I withdrew my own, keeping 30 out of 400 of them. We are now in a situation where there is a precedent. I remember that the so-called Fini-Giovanardi law was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court because, after two years of work in the Commission, articles were inserted in the bill of conversion of the decree-law that had not been discussed in the Commission and the Consulta said that the conversion had been hasty. I would like to know what the Constitutional Court will say tomorrow when this draft law, which the Leaders have done, was not even a second in the Commission because no one was able to intervene. Where is the Commission's examination of this bill? When was it examined in the Commission, given that it was proposed last night and that the 12 senators registered to speak could not do so? I see that the Secretary General continues to suggest to the President, but these are not questions of suggestion because when the Constitution and the Senate Rules are torn apart there is no excuse for him to keep. I therefore propose that, instead of this measure, the limitation measure be included in the timetable, which has been the subject of the report in the Committee on Justice for months and which we are waiting for, should be brought to the attention of the House. But no one has ever scheduled it. It is said that a political agreement is needed and that until it is done we cannot talk about prescription. However, the provision on civil unions can be brought to the Chamber without the Commission proposing it, as the Constitution requires. Mr President, there is your responsibility here because you could not put this measure on the agenda; you could reduce the time taken to examine it in the Commission, but you could not reset it. [[Senator Cioffi's comments.]] She did so and thus created a devastating precedent. I therefore call for the limitation measure to be included in the timetable instead of the provision on civil unions. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u139	The record was already there. It's not devastating.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u142	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, perhaps we have forgotten a matter which has not been included in the list of subjects under discussion. I would remind you that the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has dismissed the document relating to Senator Billardi's request for arrest, which should be scheduled. It had to have been scheduled for some time, but it remained in the air, perhaps because it was necessary to maintain certain balances in the majority in order to bring home the reforms. Is this document still pending, perhaps to ensure a balance on the issue of civil unions that see some cracks? I believe that the examination of this document can be carried out on Thursday morning; since it is a document on which a representative per group can speak, his examination can be completed in two hours. If there is a vote to be voted on, we shall vote on it. If there is a vote on it, we shall vote on it. At least we get rid of this problem, so much in the end when there is to do the crap voted with the New Right Center, while when there is to legislate on the rights of citizens and the New Right Center abandons you look for the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u145	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr President, I would like to make a proposal to my colleagues in the majority, particularly to Mr Zanda. I understand that we still have a long period of work ahead of us for this parliamentary term. I say, then, especially on important issues, President Zanda: do we want to spend these two and a half years in a continuous contrast on working methods or do we want to try to find, drawing on the heritage of common sense - of which you too, Mr Zanda, I know I am absolutely not lacking - the sense of that responsibility that we saw faded during the legislative process that led us, a few minutes ago, to reform the Constitution? The Group of Conservatives and Reformists on the subject under discussion, that of civil unions, does not barricade and does not want to be a prisoner of ideologies, but wants to face the delicacy of a topic that has important implications with a secular attitude and without prejudices whatsoever. Do we want to ensure that this constructive approach leaves room for a proactive dialectical comparison with a measure of particular importance? If we want to take this path, I believe that bringing to the country the result of having incardinated civil unions before the law of stability is part of an attitude that confirms the suspicions of someone, according to which the PD congress takes place in permanent and continuous session. So I ask myself: what is the reason for this acceleration? In the method, it almost seems that it leads to the abolition of the permanent committees and the valuable technical work they carry out. We have seen constitutional reform in this House without the rapporteur's mandate; the provision on civil unions, I believe, has seen a large number of amendments cut (some of them remain). Why not let the work be completed, in such a way as to bring out the dialectical confrontation, even between different positions, as a method to arrive at a result that serves the country and instead does not turn into the result of an arm wrestling, which the country absolutely does not need? Why do we want to speed up, bringing the draft law to the House tomorrow, with the President of the Commission, Justice, who will report on the Commission's work? Then we will for a month interrupt the work on that same bill, except to resume them in thirty days, having to reconnect the threads of a reasoning and a discussion. We are serious and responsible, Mr President. I say this with the awareness of assuming a responsibility that has in itself the commitment not to put in place any form of obstructionism: we postpone the examination of the bill to the time immediately following the adoption of the bill of stability and, above all, we resume the work in this Chamber according to the respect not only of the Rules and the written laws, but also of the unwritten ones, which are those of common sense and a civil relationship of confrontation between political forces that must represent the element of relaunching the perspective of a country that needs laws done well, with democracy and with the restoration of the functions of Parliament. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u148	Mr Quegliariello (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I could appeal to the Rules of Procedure. The reality of things, in fact, is that illustrated by President Schifani, President Gasparri and Senator Giovanardi. We have come from a sitting yesterday in the Commission (I believe that President Casson witnessed this), in which the initial report was carried out by Senator Cirinna, and then there was a form of sketched-up combination, which did not have any kind of in-depth analysis. Mr President, if you will allow me to go to the heart of the matter, I would like to appeal to common sense and not to the Rules of Procedure. On this measure we find ourselves, for the essential, in a situation in which - I say this in crude terms, then we will have the opportunity and time to deepen and repeat it in more precise terms - we have a sharing on the subject of personal rights and an absolutely divergent opinion on parenthood and, in particular, on the consequences of adoption. Some of us believe that the formulas in the law could induce or increase a practice that I believe most of the House considers with suspicion, namely that of the uterus for rent. Another part of this House believes that there is no link between the two issues. I am trying to bring the debate into objective terms. Now, on this subject we can try to continue a discussion in civil terms, to see if there is a solution and if one can understand one another. No one has the guarantee that this will happen and, indeed, it is likely not. But what I sincerely cannot understand, Mr President, is why we must prevent this from happening. If tomorrow's incardination were to bring the measure to the House immediately, I would understand that there are circumstances and expectations that would be met in this way. But we know perfectly well - we all know - that tomorrow's incardination stops there and then blocks the issue both in this House and in the Commission: it does not create an acceleration. I can understand that the Democratic Party is calling for a guarantee that this is not a way, on the part of the minority on this measure, to obstruct and then take us, month after month, to take more time. I understand, therefore, that the PD is asking for a guarantee on a time of incardination and discussion that is objectively useful, in which the House makes itself available. That would make sense. But making a possible forced entry into the Rules of Procedure (I think it is certain, someone may think it is probable), preventing the debate from continuing in the Commission, all of this in order not to bring the debate to this House, because the House is busy, and at any rate reaching that time that we have proposed to guarantee in any case, frankly, Mr President, it is something that I cannot understand the logic of, if not in a purely propaganda dimension, that should be avoided. (at 7.45 p.m.) (Followed by Mr Quagliarello). I am convinced, Mr President, that there is very likely to be no composition on this issue. I would be hypocritical if I said otherwise, because it is a subject that touches on the basic principles that are not negotiable for many of us. But I do not understand the reason why we also want to avoid the attempt, without it, however, bringing a benefit on another ground. We all know that this issue will be dealt with in January. [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u149	So your proposal is to postpone it to January? Mr Quegliariello (AP (NCD-UDC)). The proposal is to avoid general incardination if I have to make one formally. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you associate with Senator Schifani's? Mr Quegliariello (AP (NCD-UDC)). Yes, ma'am, I'm going back to President Schifani's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u150	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u152	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I take the floor to support the decision taken by the majority at the Conference of the Leaders, as well as for some clarification regarding Senator Quagliariello's speech. The need to schedule the measure on civil unions in this House, Mr President, stems from an observation of the progress of the examination of the measure in the past months. SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). One. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). In the past month. ZANDA (PD). In the past months, in the plural. A large part of this House attaches great importance to this measure. It is a measure that has been very studied, very elaborate and personally I believe - as Senator Quagliariello has said, incidentally - that there is a very wide sharing on a significant part of the measure itself, that is, the one concerning rights and duties, which defines the institution. The Commission has examined the issue of civil unions for the duration of 75 sessions: many sessions have been devoted by the Commission to civil unions. TAVERNA (M5S). What's the proposal? ZANDA (PD). In this very long sequence of meetings we have not managed to carry out the measure in practically nothing. In all the Conferences of the Leaders that have followed in recent months, we have always asked for the timetable and we have asked for it, of course, and we have also asked for the condition that the procedure of the measure be completed in the Commission. This has not helped to move anything in the Commission's work. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] TAVERNA (M5S). What is the proposed change in the timetable? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, everyone has been able to intervene quietly and even Senator Zanda has the right to do so. ZANDA (PD). Senator Giovanardi, so far no one has interrupted you, much less me. Let me speak and when I'm done, if you have something to say and the President will give you the floor, you can reply. But let me speak, please, as everyone lets you speak, whatever you say. The subject is this: it is necessary for such a delicate measure at this point to have its own outlet, and the natural outlet is that of the House. We believe that it would have been much better for the Commission to have had the opportunity to finish its work, we would have preferred it by far and we have said so at all the Conferences of the Leaders. It would have been better to bring the measure to the House with a rapporteur. This was impossible, and nothing makes you imagine that things can change. Nothing at all. Even his speech, Senator Giovanardi, does not give any hope that the Commission will be able to work with peace, serenity and objectivity on this issue. At this point, therefore, I insist on the decision that was taken by a very large majority by the Leaders and I ask all the Groups that voted on it at the Conference of the Leaders to support it also in this House, because it would be very serious that after the decision that we have taken together the measure was not incardinated tomorrow morning, certainly knowing that shortly there will be an interruption for the budgetary session, but also knowing that the decision of the incardination makes its examination irreversible in this House. I understand that this is a decision that has parliamentary and, of course, political value. Those who wanted a discussion - and I say this impersonally - in the constructive, active and collaborative Commission had 75 sessions to do so and did not. [[Applause from the PD Group]] GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). What are you talking about? Liar! Pinocchio!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u155	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I am going to make a proposal, but let me first of all note the absence of the President, to whom Senator Schifani had asked a specific question, on the basis of the relevant precedent, that of constitutional reform, when the President of the Commission was audited at the Conference of the Capigroup, to underline the exceptional nature of the decision taken at that time, contrary to Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure, and the duty of examination for a reasonable period of at least two months by the Commission of the text assigned there. I would also like to point out - and I regret the absence of the President - that on another occasion I was seriously redempted, in my capacity as President of the Commission, because I felt that a procedural decision was implied, namely not to put to the vote the amendments which had received, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, the contrary opinion of the Budget Commission. I was told that decisions must never be implied, but that they must be explicitly taken by the Commission, which did not happen last night, as regards the combination of the new draft laws with the draft laws presented at the time and on which the Commission examined them, although, Senator Zanda, this examination does not coincide with the time taken by the first report on those draft laws. When Senator Giovanardi reminds you, Senator Zanda, of the month of September alone as working time, he recalls the beginning of the amendment phase from the presentation of the basic text, the text thus replacing the various texts presented, by the rapporteur. The time 'lost' is certainly not attributable to the interventions essentially of Senator Giovanardi on the amendments tabled, but it is attributable to the discussions within the Democratic Party, which reminded the Commission of its work, and today calls for the work of the Assembly to be brought to a close on the basis of its own legitimate and interesting internal debate. I would like to remind you that Senator Quagliariello is also right when he says that we are supposed to schedule the measure the day after tomorrow, but then reasonably we are going to January. At that time, president. Senator Sacconi, you must make your proposal. SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). My proposal is that he should return to the Commission. [[Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u156	The proposal to return to the Commission will be able to do so when there is a stage in the incident.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u157	SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Allow me to tell you, Mr President, but to listen to colleagues from the Five Star Movement... [[Comments of Senator Bulgarelli]] It is important - and you are right when you sometimes call the majority - to defend the prerogatives of the opposition in all circumstances. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Now? You were supposed to talk the other day! SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC))... both when you practice it, and when you are in the opposite position. I have never contested the rights of the opposition, as is well known in the work of my Commission, because I have a lot of respect for the rights of the minority. In my experience I have been in the minority and in the majority and I know how much they must always be, in all circumstances, considered these rights and not adapted to the subjective position. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). The proposal! SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). I call for the return of the measure to the Commission, as has already been said, because that is the place where we can compare it. There are only about eighty amendments and I believe that the 5 Star Movement should also agree on the use of this time, because in reality it seems to me that we are going to do only an ideological operation, probably connected with the days of the Synod, that of wanting to put on the agenda at all costs the parenthood of homosexual couples. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u158	Senator Sacconi, your proposal is inadmissible, because you cannot return to the Commission what has not yet arrived in this House. I will give the floor to the last Members who will ask for it: I would remind you that one thing is the proposed timetable changes, another one is their debate, so one Senator per Group can speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u161	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, following Mr Zanda's speech, I should like to make a few points. I would like to recall how long the Commission has been able to work on the amendments, that is, on the text, because the alternative, if there are no amendments, is to vote on the text as it is; this is what someone wants to introduce tomorrow, but for now, as there are still some aspects of democracy, to discuss a text means to discuss the amendments. The amendments can be discussed if there is the opinion of the Budget Commission (which is formulated on the basis of a technical report from the Government, which was scandalous in the case), which arrived on 29 July. Everyone will remember that there was a one-month break during the summer. The Commission did not waste time and was the first to meet after the August break, but the 75 meetings, mentioned by President Zanda, are not those devoted to the discussion of the text, because the sessions devoted to the text were 14. If the majority of the Democratic Party believes that 14 sessions of the Commission - and we know very well the difficulty of the Commission's work - are too many to discuss a text that says what family and marriage are, what it is to be a father and a mother, what it is to be a child, I wonder what the scale of values of those who carry on these reasonings is. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I also wonder what respect - even if it is their business - for the said majority of the Democratic Party towards the many dissensions that there are - I refer to the statements read in the press - on certain points and in particular on the issue of adoptions and the uterus for rent. There may have been 1,400 meetings of the Commission, rather than the 14 that were held, but if your concept of working in the Commission is to have a text decided in some secret area of the Democratic Party and then stand there waiting a little bit impatient for others to speak, in order to maintain that text, as has been stated several times by authoritative representatives, members and not members of the Senate, then let us say that we have different concepts of dialogue, democracy and parliamentary procedures. In particular, I recall that an agenda was rejected in the Commission, which asked the Government to continue to defend the right of parents to educate their children according to their own principles, citing Articles 18 and 26 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and we had a vote against the majority, without even an attempt to explain it. Many requests have been made to put limits on this so-called stepchild adoption story. The word itself reveals that it is a matter of marriage, because the word "stepchild" means "daughter": it doesn't mean son of your friend, but son of the spouse and therefore it is clear that it is a marriage. As for the word 'adoption', it does not seem to me that it needs translation. I myself have tabled an amendment to try to set limits and I have said that I am prepared to withdraw it if the rapporteur or others feel that they are proposing different solutions. There was a simple opposite opinion and that's it. If this is your concept of dialogue, it really isn't ours, it's not what we practiced when we were majority and we'll practice when we're back. Unfortunately, for now we are not and we see the serious consequences of what has happened. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u164	[[Brusio.]] Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). I do not want to speak on the issue of the draft law on civil unions, because there will be the right time. I think, therefore, that it is not appropriate and does not serve the debate either to say what the positions of each of us are. We are currently discussing the timetable and I would like to remain on the timetable, Mr President. However, I would like to remind the House of one thing, and it is precisely in order for my speech to remain in the proceedings at least. For fifteen days I have not heard the senators of the present majority complain that the Rules of Procedure were not respected. For fifteen days there was talk of constitutional reforms and the NCD Group was silent, accepting whatever was proposed by the Democratic Party! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and Mixed-SEL Groups]] They accepted it, they were silent and they digested it, and they went even further than they digested it! Now, to NCD, who comes here to talk about minority rights and to say that we must respect the Rules of Procedure and the work of the Commission, I say: make chickens laugh! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). We'll talk about it again! I want to see what you vote for!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u167	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I welcome the call made by Mr Centinario, who rightly points out many points, not to go into this matter now but to remain on the subject of the timetable. On the subject of the calendar I would like to represent our discomfort, once again, in recording that, despite the Cirinnà-light text, or Cirinnà- bis, as it has been defined, two other legislative proposals, signed by Senator Malan and myself and signed by Senator Caliendo and Senator Zizza, have been completely ignored by a Conference by the Leaders or Majority Group Leaders. As if the only way to arrive in this Chamber today was to consider the text that has matured within the Democratic Party. And here we are again: that's why Senator Centinario is right! The eternal Congress of the Democratic Party is also staged on civil unions. An issue like this, just like constitutional reforms, goes through the life of the entire Parliamentary House in terms of cultural, political and social positions, of which we are all representatives but is being dismissed, once again, as proof of the strength of an alleged majority. I would like to enter into this matter for a moment and say that it is an alleged majority that, on such an important subject, is divided in this way. But I would like the words to be followed! So I ask my colleagues at NCD: do you now discover the right to represent different positions? I hope that, on this issue, just as it has not happened on constitutional reforms, the culture and values of the centre-right will be able to return to representing correct positions for society. In fact, we have an obligation to interpret a movement, a drive and a desire, which are present in Italian society, to advance on the ground of civil rights. Now, since I had announced that I would not go into the matter, I merely propose that this timetable really deal with the issues, and not by pretending.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u168	Colleagues, I would like to remind you that the proposed amendments to the timetable, which concern the draft law on civil unions, will be put to the vote from the farthest to the nearest to the draft timetable adopted by majority by the Conference of Leaders. I therefore put to the vote the proposed modification of the calendar presented by Senator Giovanardi, aimed at replacing the bill on civil unions with the bill on prescription. It's not approved. I still have the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the calendar of the Assembly's proceedings, made by Senator Gasparri, to expunge from the calendar the bill on civil unions. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of the assembly's work, made by Senators Schifani and D'Ambrosio Lettieri, to postpone the discussion of the bill on civil unions to the first session of 2016, concluded the examination of the bill of stability. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of the assembly's proceedings, made by Senator Castaldi, to make the final vote on the draft law on civil unions by Thursday 15 October. It's not approved. CASTALDI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Only you of the 5 Star Movement Group voted for it. CASTALDI (M5S). SEL too! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's flunked anyway. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly put forward by Senator Crimi, to schedule the report of the Assembly for Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the Billardi case. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u169	I inform you that the following request has just been made: Mr President, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, I request that the statement of urgency of the Senate Act 2024 be discussed, and that I introduce the ban on advertising for games with money winnings, at my first signature, at tomorrow's sitting, Wednesday, 14 October 2015, signed by Senator Endrizzi. Tomorrow's agenda is accordingly incorporated, in the queue, into this subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u172	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I had already asked President Grasso this morning to make a speech at the end of the sitting to denounce some very serious facts, in my view, so the intervention is also personal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marinello, nothing came to me, so I would ask you to do it very briefly. MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). On October 7th, a number of senators here in this House took up a series of images that then went online. I think this is an absolutely unspeakable practice. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]] Among other things, there was no conclusion at the Conference of Leaders today on these issues. Well, I think we are talking about these facts. In particular, there is an image...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u173	Senator Marinello, you can't go into this, but if you want, we'll report to the president.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u174	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Now I tell you the personal fact, President: an image was about the undersigned, who, among other things, was taken with his eyes closed or ajar: since then, on the network, I have been the subject of violent personal attacks, insults and even threats. This is something that will concern my lawyers, to whom I have given a mandate to act, using, among other things, the latest judgments of the Court of Cassation in this matter. I must add, dear President, that, as far as I am concerned, I intend to refer this kind of behaviour back to the sender, who qualify the senators who use these arguments for the political struggle. Since I promised her brevity, I want to conclude with a sentence that is not mine, but Umberto Eco, which he used at the University of Turin on 10 June. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u175	Senators Floris and Caliendo, please, a senator is intervening at your side.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u176	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). The sentence is as follows: Social media give the right of speech to legions of morons who used to speak only at the bar after a glass of wine, without damaging the community. They were immediately silenced, while now they have the same right of speech as a Nobel Prize winner. It's the invasion of the imbeciles. These are the words of Umberto Eco and I dedicate them to those colleagues who use these methods and these tools for a vile political struggle, which is not done on ideas, but is made of threats [[Applause from Senators Di Biagio and Albano. Senator Cioffi's comments. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u177	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-522.ana.u178	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 14 October, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.11 a.m.
