ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 9 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 23 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, after checking the quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u6	I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.06 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u9	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1977.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u10	Mr President, I shall confine myself here to dealing with three articles - Articles 8, 12 and 13 - which have already been dealt with in the Committee on Agriculture. Article 8 increases the Fund to ensure liquidity for payments of certain, liquid and payable debts and contributions to territorial authorities. In essence, the Fund for 2015 is increased by two billion, allowing local authorities to pay their debts in time, in compliance with Legislative Decree no. 231 of 9 October 2002. This seems common sense: those who have worked or sold goods and services must be remunerated. 9:09 a.m. (Following GAETTI) The problem is that as many as 1,892 million are taken from the sums entered in the residual account - I stress, from the residual account - of the fund that provides liquidity to the National Health Service. Dear citizens, you understand well: with the game of the three cards you move money from health care, so we will pay more health care and that money will be used to pay the social services that provide the municipalities. Interesting, however, is the comment of this accounting transaction that the Senate Budget Service writes on page 22 of the Reading Note: In this regard, it does not seem sufficient to state in the technical report that these amounts are not paid in the previous instances referred to in Decree-Law No 35 of 2013 and No 66 of 2014, as they are still amounts entered in residual accounts. If they have been entered into residual accounts they should therefore correspond to legally perfected commitments and could not be freely usable for other purposes (in addition, they should be transferred from one type of institution to another). Neither the rule nor the technical report makes it clear whether these resources are actually available and unused, as the related bonds would have been extinguished for lower amounts. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u11	I ask colleagues to lower their voices, because with this buzz it is impossible to listen to Senator Gaetti's speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u12	GAETTI (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. The coverage used to repay the municipalities, deprived of the IMU, identified in 530 million, according to the Budget Service, on page 23 of the Reading Note, is also very uncertain and calculated on the differential of interest paid and would have been higher than those determined in the standard under consideration. Article 12 provides for legislation on urban free zones. This article aims to create a free zone in the flooded municipalities in the province of Modena of 17 January 2014 and in the earthquake zones of 2012. In the following paragraph the area is perimeter and many municipalities are excluded, also in the mantuavan, some of which still see a fair number of displaced persons. The rapporteur added the municipalities of Carpi, Cento, Mirabello and Reggiolo to the discussion in the Committee on Budgets. The MPs of the PD of these municipalities are probably influential, while those of the Mantua are incapable. PD shows that there are A-series citizens and B-series citizens. The aim of the free zones is to help businesses in a territory in difficulty. Currently 22 free zones have been identified in Italy. For these areas, Decree-Law No 66 of 2014 allocated EUR 75 million, however the Stability Act had definanced this measure to EUR 40 million. However, if 20 of these 40 million are allocated to Emilia, the others remain less than one million euros per free zone, or less than nothing. So how many companies will benefit from these EUR 20 million? Hard to know: according to a spannometric calculation of the Department of Studies of the Senate, if we calculate the maximum achievable, that is 80,000 euros, the companies would be 250: not many, I would say. This money will be used for tax relief and just read the technical report, on page 44, to understand the application difficulty, for the temporal mismatches between maturity of the right to credit and use in tax debt compensation. On compensation, then, there would be a lot to say. Article 13 remodels interventions in favour of populations affected by the 2012 earthquake. I would like to remind you here that drilling work has been resumed for the storage of methane in the subsoil and we hope that this will not trigger other seismic shocks. Then we come to the article that allocates EUR 205 million to Lombardy for reconstruction. Finally it was understood that the Lombardy Region had been penalized in the allocation of funds allocated in the immediacy of the earthquake. Paragraph 2 previews that the burdens of the reconstruction is provided by paying this figure on the account registered to the President of the Region, but what is interesting is to know where have gone to take these 205 million euros: 140 million euros have been found by reduction, for the year 2015, of the authorization of expenditure referred to in article 3-a of the decree-law n. 95 of 2012, with credit of tax and bank loans facilitated for the reconstruction. It is therefore the money of 2012, which has not been spent: they are still there and Renzi reassign them. The technical report states that the reduction is carried out on the basis of the estimate of the actual tyings of the loans. In this regard, in addition to pointing out the uneliminable risk component inherent in an estimate, it should be pointed out that it is not supported by data, as the Department of Studies of the Senate always tells us. The other 65 million euros are based on the available resources referred to in Article 11, paragraph 13 of Decree-Law No 174 of 2012, concerning the coverage of the expenditure on interest related to the financing provided for the earthquake in Emilia, as well as the expenses strictly necessary for their management. Yes, you understand, this appropriation does not involve negative financial effects for public finance, as it is provided in the framework of resources already provided for in existing legislation. In short, and I conclude, by commenting on these three articles you have understood that there are common principles, then they are underfinanced or the idea of making new appropriations is generated, instead, the same unspent money is reallocated. For the President-in-Office of the Council, it has become clear that communication is more important than anything else, and we can also see this established practice in this measure: announcements, press conferences, declarations, lectio magistralis, interviews and nothing else. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u13	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u14	Madam President, I begin by thanking in particular the rapporteurs and the Commissions who have worked on this bill. I believe that we can say, without the issue of denial, for the same reasons and for the relationships that have gradually been established thanks to careful listening, that for the local authorities, especially for the municipalities - although certainly an important part concerns the Provinces, which are still needed to proceed with their work - with this measure there is probably the first important signal of a loosening of the internal stability pacts. It gives new oxygen to the municipalities after a long asphyctic period - perhaps too long - marked by a lack of respect and mutual sense of responsibility, as well as mutual consideration between the central state and the local autonomy. Certainly this first signal is not exhaustive, but it is very important. The relaxation of the stability pacts, which makes it possible to pay attention to certain issues, probably determined also by the listening that had been lacking in previous years compared to the associations of local authorities, tells us that from this moment a new path begins, which should see neighbors and not conflicting the common interests of the citizens of this country represented respectively by the central State, the Municipalities and the Regions. Going to see what has been loosened, first I believe that to each of us, having to deal with the mayor of some Municipality of our territory, happened to hear that, well understanding the reasons why our country is in such a serious difficulty, it would have been enough for that Municipality to be able to use simply its own funds. Let's start by saying that this time there are spaces; they have been easily conquered and deserve to be listed. First of all, a space is dedicated to the calamitous events for which the state of emergency has been resolved and is in force on the date of publication of this decree-law. One important thing was also to introduce loosening in relation to co-financing. How many times have we known that there were co-financing by the central state: I am thinking of the same good school and the co-financing for the safety and extension of schools or for regional or national calls for asbestos reclamation. Well, with this measure we are going to say that in these situations that money cannot be lost, in addition to the fact that it is not possible to think of burdening the virtuous local authorities with the application of an exit from the Stability Pact, with all the consequent burdens. In this sense, the measure is for the benefit of local authorities, providing them with EUR 100 million, which is important, to say that it makes sense for us to start working in particular on issues relating to school and environmental quality. And again, a financial space is given for the exercise of the function of leading institution. How many times have we felt the importance for the municipalities to be able to get together, to team up, to create the conditions for a union of municipalities or at least for the union of municipal services; or to team up, for example, to be able to address those opportunities that are offered at European level for the spaces related to European funds. Here, in this case, the fact that they are available 30 million to allow the leading body to perform this function is an attention that would be trivial or automatic - probably we should have grafted it first - but that is now finally grafted. This is a new relationship, which sees a precise interest on the part of the central state in the way in which the regions budget public funds. I am pleased to learn that we have been able to apply a system of rewards which I consider to be intelligent: both for local authorities and for the regions we will assess the costs of current expenditure and the ability to collect credits also in relation to the figures that have been made available for the regions relative, for example, to the payment of previous debts. In this measure about 1.8 billion are allocated to regional health with a stated, explicit and accounting objective; a sort of accountability that we begin to promote precisely in the ways in which the central state will verify six months in six months the correctness of payments by the regions compared to that parameter of 75% of the payments that must be made during the year with respect to their personal creditors. In short, a new approach that wants to promote meritoriously those Regions and those Municipalities capable of responding with responsibility to the commitments undertaken and, in the specific case of the Regions - I like to say - with that connection of intent with respect to the central State that has all too often been undersized. When you write, as you do in this measure, that the Regions are also evaluated in relation to the Vertical Stability Pact, so they have more than 800 million availability in terms of financial space in the budget to be offered to the municipalities and metropolitan cities, we have to go and check that all this occurs and that the spaces available in the regional context are actually considered and used for the purpose for which they were granted. I believe that this is another of those important signals that this country needs to understand that internal relations are really changing, and the virtuosity and the sense of reward offered to the most responsible are putting first. Spaces of availability, within the accounts of the municipalities and the regions, open also in relation to two other important factors that I like to emphasize. Firstly, with regard to the renegotiation of loans, for example, we allow the use for 2015 of resources deriving from the trading space without re-destination constraints. This is also an open space, so the municipalities return to manage a part of their resources without particular constraints at the national level, as well as 10% of the alienation of their public real estate assets is in the willingness of the local authorities that can think of using it, for example, to extinguish loans and therefore to loosen the charges on the budget or even for the cover of investment expenses. All this, together with the need to guarantee certain debts liquid and payable by the Regions and the USL, makes me say that in this rule there is a reversal of tendency to which we must applaud. We have said that this is a first sign, probably not as challenging and important as many were waiting for, but certainly a signal that gives hope that the way for a new time will also be opened for the policies of local units. I would also like to point out that we have recently held debates within the various Commissions on the fact that the Stability Pact mechanism, coupled with the principle of mutuality which originated the mutuality fund between the municipalities themselves, has given rise, especially in the very virtuous municipalities, to that terrible mechanism which has led these municipalities to receive nothing from the State, but even to have to return part of their budget in favour of this mutuality fund. There has also been an intervention on this, and this is also a signal which I consider to be extremely positive. Positive are also the corrections that have been made regarding the measures relating to the police bodies that are in operation in the provincial area and that can be inserted today, at their request and will, within the local institutions but also of the metropolitan cities. I believe that this too is an important signal about the passage that we are inevitably making with the cancellation of the Provinces as we have known them at the constitutional level. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that in this draft law we have included some specific funds for the realities that have been affected by disasters and I would like to remind you that it is a start of a sense of national solidarity that has led to the allocation of EUR 7.5 billion of availability for the three municipalities affected by the recent tornado in my region. It is a beginning of participation in a disaster of considerable size that has hit an entire territory that can mean, together with the other availability offered for the other areas of the Country, from Sardinia to Abruzzo to Liguria, that this State is close to the citizens and does not forget. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u15	We greet the delegation of officials of the Argentine Senate who are following our work from the forums. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to make a premise. Yesterday, during the debate on the constitutionality of this measure, it was also tried to reason and challenge it in terms of urgency. I think that we can challenge this decree-law with regard to many issues, but hardly at the level of urgency, because this is a measure that was born to implement first of all an agreement, that between the State and local authorities, approved in the State-City Conference of 19 February 2015, so at most one can complain a certain delay, rather than the lack of urgency of this decree-law. In recent months, the work that has been done is certainly of great value, so much so that it has also been taken into account by the intense work done in the Commission, which has taken care not only to accept that agreement, but also to introduce other innovative elements that have matured in the meantime, in particular with regard to the implementation of the reform on the Provinces. Also with regard to the second understanding, that between Regions and State of 26 February 2015, regarding which one can dispute the fact that it arrived at the last moment in the Commission and that it did not arrive to the relevant Commission for competence, that is, the Health Commission, it arrives with a considerable delay, so as to put at risk the possibility to apply in the remaining months the rules that are present in the decree-law as amended. I would therefore like to make a few comments on the first part of the decree-law, and therefore on the first understanding, and then on the separate considerations on the second understanding. The decree-law, in its initial form, was particularly awaited and in fact was a way of achieving those savings provided for in the law of stability for local authorities. It takes note, as I said before, of a series of additional needs and also of some necessary corrections both for the municipalities, for the metropolitan cities, and for the provinces. In essence, the fact is that the expectation of the decree-law was mainly linked to a real need, to a necessary and not procrastinable intervention on the difficult financial situation of the local authorities, through various instruments that in Decree-Law No. 78 are present. Meanwhile, the sanctioning system, linked to the overcoming of the Stability Pact during 2014, reduces the amount of sanctions to only one fifth; financial advances are guaranteed pending the IMU and TASI collections and the Municipal Solidarity Fund; covenant spaces are granted, also mentioned by the colleague who intervened before me, for interventions implemented on natural disasters, for the safety of the territory or school buildings, for the reclamation of sites contaminated with asbestos, or for structural costs such as those due by the leading body or for the realization of structural works and for the co-financing of these with European funds. In essence, local authorities are put in a position to act well during the year and to recover resources by contrasting that financial instability due not only to the reforms in place, which produce relative difficulties, but also to the more general economic situation and the contribution due also by local authorities to the financial crisis of the country. The political data is that of a decree-law obliged, useful, necessary, even bearer of expectations higher than the real economic and financial availability, and therefore also at risk of creating some inequality, also cited by one of the two rapporteurs. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that the two rapporteurs have worked very well and I would like to thank them on behalf of their colleagues in the Commission for facilitating the work of everyone. These inequalities must be filled with not occasional rules, but with structural legislative measures, with unique texts. I remember this because, in this transitional phase, there is a need for new rules to be applied in a simpler and more readable way for citizens and those who work, representing citizens, as administrators within local authorities. Moreover, we need to take note of the fact that many transformations are taking place. Within this decree-law there is the taking of the act that the process of harmonization of budgets requires different regulations, higher, but clearer, and not untied interventions that generate inequalities. I quote an amendment which has been approved and which concerns interventions for communities above 60,000 inhabitants. What is the meaning of the limit of the 60,000 inhabitants is difficult to understand, motivated by an occasionality that unfortunately is dictated by the fact that we are a step away from clear, net structural rules, equal for all, which are instead indispensable. I conclude on the point of the local authorities adding that the decree-law contains both interventions with financial and economic resources that guarantee the continuity of the fixed time within the Provinces or the metropolitan cities, both accounting rules or rules of application of the reforms that definitively resolve some nodes, for example in the Provinces, such as those related to the provincial police or the centers of employment. I would also like to say a few words about the second issue which seems to me to be important: health, on which the government's amendments took place at the final stage of the work on the decree-law. I want to say a few things about this, but clear. It's getting a little confusing these days. The intervention on health is the application of an economic and financial norm present in the law of stability; it is not new and further cuts, but the contribution that the Regions had decided to give with the law of stability choosing that side for the cuts, and not others, in application of the agreement State-Regions of 26 February 2015. The difficulty I want to point out is that approving the rules contained in the decree-law when we are already in the part advanced from the year can lead to the risk that these effects cannot be realized completely: to think that in just five months, without the organization of the work, you can make savings for 2,3 billion, reviewing contracts with private individuals already signed and signed, even with very hard, clear and obvious clauses, carries the risk that you can not achieve this result. I therefore wonder whether it would not have been preferable to reach agreement first on the subject of the Conference and the State-Regions Agreement, which would then become the subject of debate within the Health Commission. Of course, with such a tight timetable, the action that Parliament can take is also extraordinarily limited compared to the action taken on Decree-Law No 78 in the first version. The other point is as follows: Reading well the communication that has made the commissioner for spending review we understand that there is no sign that we need to make an additional €10 billion of savings on health. If that were the intention, I would be careful - I tell the government - because since 2010 health care has not received further funding but recalibrates them within those resources. Over a certain limit, in fact, the additional interventions on health do not produce savings, but have two effects: on the one hand, that those who can go to private health and, on the other hand, that health becomes at two speeds, as it already is. In this way, that is, we do not recover the quality gap of health between the regions of the North and those of the South; on the contrary, we risk weakening also the public system of the North, because those who have resources will go into the private system, leaving the public system with less resources, unused and, therefore, tending to regress, like that of the Mezzogiorno. On health, therefore, attention to the confusion between what is the contribution to the accounts of the State and what is a right payable by every citizen and especially in every part of the national territory. I think a government like ours can't go wrong in this direction. I am convinced that this is not the intention, that this point is clear to the Government and that, therefore, in the work that will be done on the occasion of the law of stability, from this point of view we will not make mistakes, but will proceed with great attention to the protection of the public right to health. ( [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SEL Groups).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u17	She's enlisted to speak Senator Mangili. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u18	Madam President, the decree-law on territorial authorities which, after a long wait, has come to this House, has received many criticisms from various players on the social, economic, administrative and trade-union scene. This measure deals with many issues (provisions on public administration, taxation, budgets, civil servants and redundancies in the Provinces), but it is a mix of different measures, which will have little impact on the economy of the citizens and municipalities to which they belong. It is clear that this Government intends to initiate the tax federalism project, while neglecting the basis on which it should be based. If fiscal federalism means that system aimed at establishing a direct proportionality between the taxes collected by the territorial agency - Municipality, Metropolitan City, Region - and the taxes actually used by the institution itself, we can only come to the conclusion that these concepts seem absolutely ignored. We are not surprised by the expedients that the Executive is able to incorporate in a decree-law like this; artifices distorted by the idea of harmonisation in accounting management and reporting, which however is betrayed by the difficulty and complexity of the obligations that each territorial entity is obliged to carry out in order to account for revenue and expenditure. Administrative compliances that are required, yes, but without adequate management tools, with unclear regulations and, even worse, incomplete. In this regard, remember that the functional and institutional reorganisation of the territorial authorities would have gone through the completion of administrative and legislative acts that are still incomplete. You have extended the room for manoeuvre for local authorities, recognising financial spaces for a total of EUR 100 million and aimed at urgent intervention measures such as dealing with calamitous events, the security of the territory and school buildings, but we believe that the amount committed is by no means sufficient to remedy these serious shortcomings with which all the first citizens of our municipalities are forced to confront each other on a daily basis. The Government should have taken into account the observations of the Court of Auditors that, without any means, showed that the maneuvers of recent years have affected the system of Municipalities unfairly and disproportionately, stressing that: "the complex process of rebalancing public accounts has constantly engaged the local government sector to an extent that exceeds the limits of a reasonable criterion of proportionality between the ratios of composition of public administration expenditure", but the Government continues to be deaf before these alarm bells. The policy has compressed the financial autonomy of the municipalities by seriously reducing the possibilities of intervention and management of territorial authorities and deeply affecting the degree of financial and functional autonomy.............................................................................................................................................. Nevertheless, we are faced with a government act which once again seeks to sterilize the principles of fiscal responsibility. The Court also considers that the increase in the local tax burden has been the result of choices made at the level of central government, rather than an expression of the tax autonomy of decentralised bodies, and - let us add - that they are the result of guilty decisions that will have a knock-on effect on the finances of us citizens. I add a note on the issue of Equitalia. The decree-law extends to 31 December of this year the period of expiry of the assignments of the activities of assessment and collection. Given that since the beginning of the legislature we have expressly stated that Equitalia must be excluded from the system of local collection, however we fear that this Government is not able to identify appropriate instruments that allow the transition from a system for the large centralized part to a more articulated system that returns to the territory the management of taxes. However, we would like to recall that the Council of State raised the question of legitimacy for Law No 44 of 26 April 2012 which allowed 892 officials under the revenue agency, without their qualifications, to carry out managerial duties. The list of abusive leaders was sent to the Constitutional Court, which declared managers to have fallen because none of them had supported a public competition. We will show special attention to the majority who intend to save the usual known and we will prevent these officials from being re-entered in the previously occupied place. I conclude by saying that already in the 2015 law of stability linear cuts have been approved to municipalities, metropolitan cities and regions. To these cuts today are added those to health, thanks to an amendment of the same Government, to rationalize the expenditure on goods and services, medical devices and medicines; reductions that will cause a lowering of the quality of the health services and the risk of legal appeals. This situation is becoming increasingly unsustainable every day because of the social pact that holds Italian citizens together. Knowing that the Government is waterproof and resistant to any proposal and external solicitation, if not from those who are the expression of an organized party or group of interest, it must be understood that this current block cannot last long and will need to be equipped to better understand and respond to the signals coming from the territory. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u19	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u20	Madam President, the measure we are discussing is the continuation of a path that has been going on for years, a path of impoverishment of the role, resources and the future of the public sector. The philosophy underlying this decree-law on local authorities is the one that we have already seen introduced by Mayor Renzi: the idea of local authorities and a state as such increasingly lighter, less and less service provider, whose management is entrusted, through true externalizations, to private or public-private subjects, as already happens in many regions. It is claimed that a private subject must be good at programming and controlling to use the strength of the market and of the industrial and entrepreneurial capacities to provide the same services, for quality and quantity, under a strict verification of the public subject; an old idea, the daughter of liberal recipes, which does not deal with reality, deeply changed, and with the experience of these years, which tells us more. Today, the reality is that private individuals are aiming for profit and that public machinery is already not adequate for the control of the private sector (let's think about what will happen to safety in the workplace). This reform, which we do not like, is not even done at zero, but with savings. It is a decree-law with many heterogeneous elements: support for municipalities, regions, health care, police bodies, universities; in short, a real omnibus decree, as was abundantly said yesterday. The budget cut of 2.3 billion to health at this stage of deep crisis is a disgrace. But how can one think of recovering resources and saving on health care? And don't tell us the usual story of waste, because one thing is the rationalization of expenses and costs, other is cutting services and assistance. Of course it is important to reduce and avoid waste but it is necessary to identify it, eliminate it (and not reduce it) and work to prevent it. But here we are talking about something else, because you are introducing real linear cuts to health care in terms of beds, blocking recruitment and reducing refunds for services and services that will fall on outsourced workers and on the quality of service. In recent years the cuts in health care have been very heavy. In the law of stability 2015 a cut of 4 billion has been introduced to the Regions, which has added to the 31 billion of cuts of the previous years. The policy of the tickets, the cuts and redundancies made to respond to the austerity policies imposed by the troika, have resulted in the progressive removal from the public health service of entire sections of citizens, causing in fact a poorer public health and emigration to private health and health insurance cover. We cannot think of saving on the health of our citizens and we cannot introduce the principle that only those who can afford it can take care of them. Some regions, including Tuscany, have thought well to promote supplementary health forms and perhaps today we say that it was not a coincidence. The economic crisis, on the other hand, has led to an increase in demand for public health care; and how do we respond to this challenge? By reducing resources without thinking that it would be necessary to invest. The point is to know where and then we allow ourselves some quick suggestions: for example, prevention and territory. Of course, the goal of making health care services appropriate has been a shared battle for years, but it means talking about the coverage of the LEA, prevention, health education for all, not to indulge the anxiety of care of patients who have become consumers. One cannot think of downloading the cost of performance for patients or, at best, for doctors. Of course it is good to reduce the days of hospitalization where possible, but there must be a massive investment for a territorial health care able to receive, follow and accompany the reduction of the days of hospitalization. More has been done in these years. The resources saved from waste, stealing and bad management must be used to strengthen the public service, to hire doctors, nurses and socio-health workers, who take twelve-hour massacred shifts, endangering the safety of workers themselves and the lives of patients. But don't talk about it. We all remembered the famous tweet that accompanied, with the demagogy of all time, the Delrio decree: We have now deleted the Provinces, three thousand less politicians, strengthening the idea, well rooted among so many citizens, that politics is all rubbish: the elected, the representatives of the citizens, totally useless at best, or thieves and anyway a cost to be eliminated. No reference to deleted democracy and the representation of citizens. Forgeting (and we would like to remember) that at the moment when you are elected or carrying out institutional tasks of the highest level, the populists, the same ones to whom you give voice with choices to speak to the belly of the people, automatically consider you chaste; and this applies to all, none of the people leaders excluded. But after using the administrative experience in the province of Florence as a springboard for the launch of his political role, the President of the Council did not hesitate to claim that he was the first to cancel the Provinces, after years that this choice was announced. In the name of speed, however, everything was wrong, without a long thought on how to reorganize the institutional system of the State. This is well seen if we read together important measures of this Government, first of all the constitutional reform and that of the public administration. Politicians have been cancelled and it was not thought that the functions and the allocation of functions and staff to other bodies (the State, the Regions, the Municipalities and the Metropolitan Cities) had to be reorganized. The Provinces are still there, but the resources to provide the services that still serve citizens have largely been cancelled. A reform-non-reform has been made to remove other resources from the communities and today, with some measures buffering this decree-law, we try to chase solutions to prevent important functions, such as provincial police, school building or employment centers, definitively close, leaving at home all the staff. You have not considered our proposal - which is not just ours, but is gathering consensus - to establish in each region the regional environmental police, with tasks of wildlife protection, fish and hunting, environmental protection and surveillance of natural parks and protected areas. It is a proposal that would give meaning to the transfer of competent staff to the Regions, without the dispersion of a heritage of professionalism built over the years, and this is a battle that we will continue with other initiatives. You have done that reform for electoral use and consumption, forgetting the precarious staff who work for employment centres, thus forcing thousands of precarious workers to remain in a bubble of concern for their future and without guarantee for the essential levels of services and active labour policies. You have not yet had the courage to pass on functions to the Regions, despite their willingness to play a decisive role in active labour policies and in the operational management at territorial level of those policies naturally linked to a framework of certain funding resources for staff employed in employment centres. In a major phase of economic crisis, pending your National Labour Agency, it would have been very useful to reform employment centres and link them to the training of workers and perhaps even to the job demand that businesses make. On the other hand, for now, we are proposing - fortunately - the extension of fixed-term contracts, including through the Stability Pact, and the resources from 70 million to 90 million are reported, but they are by no means sufficient for the whole operation. The real stone banquet of all this decree-law, in fact, is the Stability Pact and the austerity policies that have brought local authorities to their knees. This is the real battle that should have been waged and that we would have expected from a renewed role of Italy in Europe, but, as we have seen on the Greek story - ahinoi - Italy has decided to play another game, not to open a real battle precisely against austerity policies. The battle done by Greece, in fact, is a battle that concerns us too, because austerity has proved ineffective to restart the economy of a country in serious economic crisis. Renzi, who, at the beginning of the Italian Presidency of the European Union, had spoken of changing towards Europe, soon abandoned the timid battle to overcome the parameters of the debt-to-GDP ratio and obviously quickly joined Germany. Instead, we should have fought a real battle and understood that with cuts in public spending we do not get out of the crisis: instead, we do it with the recovery of tax evasion and corruption, with the support of individuals and families to get them out of the absolute poverty line, with the relaunch of spending capacity and with targeted public investments. This, in fact, is not only the recipe of Tsipras, but it is exactly what Germany did after reunification: large public investments, even private ones, but promoted and coordinated by the public. As has been pointed out more and more often, perhaps, we should do what Germany has done and not what it is asking of us now. Instead you wanted to continue with a usual, old recipe: with this decree-law, you continued in the policy of cuts and savings; other than change towards, you preferred to continue in the usual, old direction, indicated in recent years by the Governments of the Right. [[Applause from Senators Cervellini, Gatti and Dirindin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Piccoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u22	Madam President, I would like to make two comments: the first relates to the practical applicability of the provisions of Article 2 on the Stability Pact to small local authorities; the second relates to the matter of entrusting the natural gas distribution service. With regard to the first question, it should be stressed that the measure introduces a substantial complexity and criticality, which does not allow small local authorities - I am talking about municipalities with a population of 5,000 to 8,000 inhabitants and however with small budgets - to easily access financial spaces for the purposes of compliance with the Internal Stability Pact. In fact, while for the large institution the rule introduced allows to actually engage financial spaces on the work in progress useful for the start of new interventions, for the small municipality this faculty remains only an enunciation. This is understood as soon as reference is made to how to access the specific portal at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers to make the request. In fact, the compilation requires the single code of project (CUP) and other useful information on the current intervention, implicitly stating that, in order to be ongoing, the work projects must first have been financed, inserted in the cash prospectus for the demonstration of the respect of the Stability Pact, put to tender, delivered and started. It is understood that only in some very limited cases can small municipalities actually benefit from the opportunity represented by the provisions in question. To break down this barrier, almost unsurpassed to me, it is necessary to provide spaces on works to be started and not financial spaces to be obtained from works initiated. It is therefore necessary to intervene in order to allow small municipalities also to start work, directly taking advantage of the exemptions from the Pact provided for in the measure and not as an effect of obtaining financial spaces on other ongoing interventions. The second question relating to tenders for the public service distribution of natural gas (called gas tenders) is dragging without results and with serious prejudice to the national system. I would have expected a decree-law containing: □ Urgent provisions on territorial authorities should contain at least one intervention to update the time available to contracting stations, so as to provide clarity to the complicated procedures within which the municipalities are debating. I would have expected this decree-law to represent a useful opportunity, since, with the sole burden of regulating the market by the State in this important local public service, there are substantial benefits. First, it is estimated that the new operators identified through these tenders are able to activate almost immediately interventions related to modernization, extraordinary maintenance and safety work, for about one billion euros. Second, prudential estimates indicate a potential tax revenue for the State, amounting to no less than three billion one-off, linked to the taxation of the gains that are to be defined as a result of the reimbursement of the residual value of the networks to the outgoing operator. Thirdly, local authorities become recipients, directly or indirectly, of significant revenue. It is estimated that the figure is approximately EUR 3.5 billion only in the case of small networks; I am referring to small networks held perhaps by small companies of municipalities, which can be used for further investments. Finally - last but not least - substantial benefits are expected in tariffs for millions of Italian households and companies. In this sense, I had tabled amendments, which were rejected. Madam President, I would like to add that it is so obvious that the Lombardy Region, which, like the other regions, would have had to commissary unfulfilled procurement stations, has indicated that it cannot do so because of a lack of assumptions. In fact, contracting stations have not been placed in a position to produce appropriate tender documents. In my view, therefore, it is urgent and important that we finally address this issue without losing any other opportunity. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u23	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u24	Madam President, we would like to take advantage of the examination of this measure in order to examine a couple of issues within it and which so far no colleague has considered to analyse. The measure contains measures for the reconstruction of the Abruzzo territories affected by the earthquake of 2009 and provisions for the territories affected by the floods of 2014; we are surprised that, in the course of the amendment or discussion in the Commission, no measures have been included concerning the problem that unfortunately afflicted Veneto because of the trumpet that hit the territories from which I and Senator Tosato come. I am talking about the events that took place in early July, that is, an air trumpet that manifested, perhaps in the most striking way, how nature communicates to us its own power. Crops have been destroyed, whole plantations of corn and trees have been uprooted, pylons of light and trellises have been removed. 500 buildings were damaged and hundreds of cars, 50 companies and 15 Venetian villas were involved, one of which - the Villa Fini - was completely burned to the ground. There have been 450 displaced people, there have been inconveniences to the railway network, two power lines have been compromised. They had one dead and more than 80 injured. We are faced with a situation in which up to now, according to an estimate, at least 92 million euros of damage suffered, for a territory such as the Brenta Riviera and in particular for the countries of Pianiga, Dolo and Mira; of these 92 million euros, already 6.5 million euros are needed for the villa Fini. In the immediacy about 50 voluntary organizations have been activated, 250 have been the interventions of the fire department and the same population has set out on the way to help the neighbors, friends and family, who suddenly found themselves without a home. After a few days, passing through these streets, we could no longer see the waste, but when we went to these afflicted territories, to look more deeply at the situation, we saw houses destroyed and compromised, many no longer accessible, in a territory decidedly scourged. Of a drama like this, perhaps the RAI and the other television stations have spoken for a day or at most for two days, after which the most total silence has dropped. Only our governor Zaia has tried to keep public opinion sensitive to this problem, on which a shameful blanket of silence seems to have fallen. So far, there has been talk of EUR 2 million - so it seems - that they continue to wander in the air and seem to arrive. A rapporteur's amendment to unblock the Stability Pact for a sum not exceeding EUR 7 million was tabled during this measure. It must be remembered, however, that the unblocking of the Stability Pact does not bring any further money, because it is money that is already the public body. They are not money that come to give support to this territory and two million euros, gentlemen, while being very grateful to receive them, they are an almsgiving for a Region like Veneto, which has a fiscal residual of 21 billion euros annually and that for years has been locomotive of North Italy and of all Italy, in which the tax revenues IRPEF is very important. Now we are in this situation, in which already the Veneto Region has immediately allocated six million euros, trying to go netar la tecia, as we say, that is to scrape the budget in order to find these money. Gentlemen, Veneto is not only composed of those who own a factory or boat, it is not only the Veneto of Benetton or Diesel. We are not all successful entrepreneurs: there are families, who have to live on two salaries and who have the mortgage to pay. Tell me how a normal family can reconstruct a home, not to mention the public authorities, who find themselves having to rebuild and fix roads and pylons of light. Gentlemen, we need support. So far, no Member who has spoken in general debate has put forward this issue, and I am very sorry about that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I am very sorry because there are so many Venetians in here and I would have been pleased to hear from a Venetian man that this measure was the one in which we could insert measures. Here, in two weeks, we play it in that Region: we cannot wait any longer. There are families who have not yet returned home, who must anticipate money, who knows where they can recover, to settle the roof or to buy another car. This measure was a possibility which, however, was completely disregarded. What do you think we're gonna do? It's not like that. There is a need and there was an opportunity to intervene with this measure. We are therefore still here to urge and invite the reporters and the representative of the Government - even if we suspect that this measure will probably be placed the confidence - to take advantage of this occasion or to tell us at least how they intend to solve this problem and where they can come from contributions for this region and for those areas so messed up. On a house there was a sign written: "Renzi, you are serene; we are Serenissimi". [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u25	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, even in this decree-law we are preparing to respond to many problems and emergencies. The two rapporteurs and colleagues before me have highlighted some important initiatives planned. I would like to focus exclusively on an evaluation of Article 11, also in order to make it clear to those who often speak in vain about the earthquake in L'Aquila how things really are and how great and urgent the needs are still. Article 11 very positively introduces a specific forecast on Abruzzo which contains: " Urgent measures for the legality, transparency and acceleration of the reconstruction processes of the Abruzzo territories affected by the earthquake of 6 April 2009." More than six years have passed since the tragic earthquake of 6 April 2009 and many progress has been made. Finally, arriving at L'Aquila from the highway, you can see the numerous and widespread cranes in the historic center of the capital of the Region. For years we have suffered the blockage of the building activities in the historical centers, but a city that lives only on the outskirts is not a city, just as it is not a city that young people flee from for lack of their history and identity. It may not seem urgent to someone to solve these problems; instead, it is urgent for us, who continue to live and raise our children there. We have had a breakthrough with the so-called emergency decree, the first act of this legislature, and then with the two laws of stability, the last in particular, which has finally allocated adequate amounts to deal with a difficult and complicated situation. But there are still many problems to be tackled; some come from afar, from the initial flaws of approach, others are contingent. I would therefore like to thank the Government, in particular the Undersecretary De Micheli, as well as the other members of the Government - the undersecretaries, Pizzetti, Bressa and Baretta - the rapporteurs Zanoni and Chiavaroli, President Sangalli and my group leader Giorgio Santini for their attention and commitment to the events of Abruzzo. I have followed the Commission's work point by point and I have had the opportunity to appreciate the seriousness of the work. For the case of Abruzzo - I say this clearly - there would be a need for an organic, comprehensive approach, and that is why at the beginning of June I deposited a bill, the Senate Act 1960, of which I am first signatory, signed by numerous and competent senators, which constitutes a work of synthesis and balance, and which brings with it urgent measures for the legality, transparency and acceleration of the reconstruction processes of the Abruzzo territories affected by the earthquake of 6 April 2009 and for the support of productive activities and research. I built it after months of discussion, confrontation and with the establishment of a permanent table with mayors, productive categories, trade associations, special offices. This measure is the work I have been working on to table amendments to this decree-law and other subsequent initiatives, in the law of stability and in other decrees. In particular, in the decree-law we are discussing, with some important amendments we have strengthened the effectiveness of controls and prevention activities against crime and mafia infiltrations. Already Article 11 in the text of the Government presented some very positive aspects in terms of controls and incompatibility and in terms of responsibility, with the choice to make the appointment of public service officer to the directors and representatives of the consortia, the insertion of rules to limit the use of subcontracting (true and proper scope for criminal infiltrations), the insertion of the checks to sample of the Court of Auditors and the Guardia di Finanza, the possibility to positively influence the revival of the productive activities (with the use of four percent of the appropriations provided for in decree-law No 43 of 2013 for tourist and cultural promotion, entrepreneurial activities, connectivity and broadband, research and high training) and with the insertion of the compensatory resources for the achievement of the objective of the Stability Pact with eight million euros. The Senate Budget Committee then approved a large part of the reconstruction package for Abruzzo, which I submitted to the local government decree-law. Overall, the rules fired accelerate reconstruction and increase controls and guarantees against the infiltration of organised crime. Amendment 1.8, which has been approved by the Commission, provides, among other things, for penalties and penalties for the failure of companies, professionals, clients and service providers. But the package contains many other measures: the historical centers of the hamlets of the Municipality of L'Aquila and the other municipalities of the crater will finally be able to access the public financing for the common parts of the second houses, as already happened for the houses of the historical center of the capital. For churches and parish and religious buildings the contracting station will be the Ministry of Cultural Heritage that will acquire their preliminary projects. The Municipality of L'Aquila will be able to extend until 2017 the contracts of precarious workers employed in the reconstruction. The possibility of financial anticipation by owners who intend to rebuild their home with their own funds was also accepted. Then there is the whole chapter of anti-mafia guarantees. An amendment to Article 11, 11, 3, all dedicated to reconstruction, has strengthened the profiles of legality and transparency, providing for and overcoming a regulatory vacuum that ensures that, even in relations between private individuals (only in Italy) the self-certification anti-mafia for companies and professionals, at the penalty of nullity of contracts, is provided for in private reconstruction. It also provides for the incompatibility between the director of the works and the company and the obligation for the companies of the SOA certificate. All to limit criminal entry and to strengthen the healthy business system instead. Important is also the amendment that lightens the municipalities of the crater from the cuts imposed by the solidarity fund. This is absolutely significant, and I consider these important results because they put our territory hit by the tragedy of the earthquake in the best conditions for the definitive recovery. However, I regret the failure to approve an amendment drawn from my proposed law establishing white lists and reputational books for entrepreneurs and professionals. I will continue to work on this objective. Unfortunately, during the discussion, doubts emerged from the Ministry of the Interior for the consequent overload on the prefectures, unique to be able to guarantee the certification. I will try again because my goal and our goal is to rebuild L'Aquila and the municipalities of the crater in full transparency and legality. Our work continues because there are still other issues: the reconstruction of the buildings used for production activities, the needs to organize in a timely manner the questions of the staff, the extension of the employees of the municipalities and special offices, the RIPAM rankings and other indispensable and urgent objectives included in organic law no. 1960 at my first signature. Just as in other measures we will have to deal with the issue of ascendants and descendants and the relatives of the victims. With a clear parliamentary path and the inclusion of other issues in other decrees, I am sure that we will continue to give this important signal to the populations affected in 2009 by the terrible earthquake. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u27	Senator Amidei is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u28	Madam President, I have tabled a number of amendments to this draft law aimed at amending and implementing, in those aspects which I refer to as incomplete, Articles 5 and 12 of the decree-law under discussion. These articles must be changed in the first place because, referring to Article 5, after the adoption of the so-called Delrio law, the Provinces have been left out of business: we have simply pursued what could be a rationalization of the costs and an optimization of the functionalities of these agencies, but in fact we are faced with a great unresolved problem, which is that of the provincial police. I believe that pretending that this is not a problem is a sign of a lack of responsibility and, indeed, of irresponsibility, especially with regard to a body such as that of the provincial police that the Government evidently considers cannot have an important role in the protection of the provincial territory as far as its competence is concerned. This is a problem that must be taken into account in order to ensure that the provincial police can still play their decisive role in the protection and monitoring of a territory. I do not know if you know what I am talking about and what the provincial police are doing, but I live in a territory where the role of this Police Corps is fundamental and without which we would be faced with daily jackals; I refer to the monitoring of fishing valleys, fishing, canals, hunting that takes place on the territory. By missing this role that today the provincial police performed very well, with great professionalism, we would cause irreversible damage to all the citizenship. That is why I ask you to provide as soon as possible and seriously to find the right role that this Body deserves, because a vacuum in this sense is unacceptable. The other reason why I have tabled amendments concerns Article 12. I agree with what Senator Stefani said: there are needs and emergencies that cannot be entrusted to the next day, as often happens with the measures presented by the Government. These measures are palliative, if they have such an effect, since they often produce nothing, if not disaffection towards the institutions by the affected populations, because they see that the institutions are absent. I therefore hope that, as soon as possible, we can give a concrete signal to the populations of Venetian, of the ski resorts of Dolo, Mira, Pianiga, Cazzago, Miranese, that is, the whole area affected by this strong air trumpet that has caused real damage to the territory. But I am also referring to another aspect, because - alas - more than three years after the earthquake of May 2012, the affected populations, especially Emilia but also of other areas, have still not had concrete signals through significant and incisive measures on the reconstruction of a territory and the damage that companies have suffered. Madam President, representatives of the Government, there is an objective, non-subjective aspect that I want to emphasise. There is a provision, decree-law 6 June 2012, n. 74 - I quote to avoid misunderstandings - converted with amendments by law 1 August 2012, n. 122, which establishes the areas affected by the earthquake indicating well defined municipalities, including some of the Province of Rovigo affected. In my amendments I have made a very precise list of municipalities which are not included in Article 12 of the measure in our examination. I would like to know why they were not included, since there is a previous decree-law which, in a very clear way, defines them as affected territories. In the above article there is only one part on the municipalities of Emilia-Romagna - for goodness sake, nothing to say about it - probably the most affected. Then I wonder why, at the time when this decree-law inserts municipalities, others are excluded who instead have the right to be mentioned; it is a duty of the Government to ensure that these municipalities are inserted. I do not know how this is going to end since, as you know, trust will be placed in this House. There are a number of amendments which are the result of commitment, considerations and assessments which all have a great foundation in their principles. I think - alas - there is a certain superficiality in considering people's demands. I therefore hope that the Government will give serious thought to what has been said. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u29	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u30	Madam President, only the attention that the representatives of the Government are devoting to this debate leaves the now feeble flame of hope that things will change in this Parliament and in the institutional arrangements of our country. I say this because I cannot fail to express not only the astonishment at the way in which we continue to legislate, but also the deepest indignation so that the Government has a sign of resistance about how to deliver to the country a legislative production that is not only absolutely sloppy, incomplete and ineffective, but absolutely deprived of the constitutional principles that confirm the parliamentary value of our Italian Republic. Already in the debate that has developed on the preliminary questions have been - also in an argumentated and documented way - explained the reasons for which the unconstitutional value of the provision appears almost incontrovertible: the absence of the requirements of necessity and urgency, the absence of homogeneity in the content, the absence of provisions that are linked to each other by affinity of content and purpose. A decree-law is made for arguments that really have a value of urgency, not for rules of order. Once again, the Constitution is violated, democracy is once again wounded to death. What the Constitutional Court has expressed in this regard is worth nothing, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, dear colleagues, what the President emeritus of the Italian Republic has repeatedly referred to in relation to the modalities and conditions for issuing a decree-law. On the other hand, the observations made by the Court of Auditors, before, by the Department of Studies of the Senate, after, and also the findings of the General Accounting Office of the State, are worthless. Of course, some measures with urgency were, for charity, even to appreciate those related to extraordinary recruitments in the Police, the Carabinieri, the Finance Guard and the Fire Department, expected, as well as necessary; finally, the norms on calamitous events were just. Mr Amidei just recalled the need to create a homogeneity of these measures and economic benefits in all areas of the territory; he regretted that certain areas of the territory continue to be ignored, such as that of Gargano, which still remains marked by the deep wounds of the calamitous events for which the President of the Council, very quickly, went to promise what still, to date, has not maintained. The rules for the functioning of AIFA are certainly useful and urgent: for goodness sake, there is the need to allow AIFA to carry out its own functions, in line with the needs of activity, which are increasing more and more. But what does CINECA have to do with the decree-law on local authorities? What are the archaeological sites of Pompeii or the UNESCO Foundation? Sorry, then, that to this decree-law, Lords of the Government, you had the impudence to add a sort of other decree, that maxi amendment that contains measures of particular importance, that have sparked a very lively and pertinent debate on the substance of the contradictions in the matter of health. In this regard, I would like to say that you not only exonerated Parliament from the right to intervene in a debate and to express its thoughts in an accomplished way; not only did you indecently strain the amending, sensible and non-obstructional activity that has been carried out by the opposition forces, but you also expropriated the merit committees of their constitutionally guaranteed function. In fact, even the Health Commission, on a reform that is misapproved by this measure, will not be in a position to express its opinion. [[Applause from Senator Simeoni]] This is an unheard of gravity in view of the efforts that the Health Commission, both in this and in the other branch of Parliament, has made with in-depth and proactive research into health which is weakened by the government's sharp shears that continue to produce linear cuts that determine social butchery with the consequence of vulnering the principles of universality, equity and solidarity of our system. I hope that the attention I have given will remove the spectre of the vote of confidence on this measure and allow you to reflect and recover, as quickly as possible and as far as possible, what is necessary to restore dignity to Parliament and to deliver to the country a product less indecent than what you would like to deliver. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u31	Senator Lucherini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u32	Madam President, we are faced with an important measure that has been greatly improved by the work done in the Commission in recent days thanks to the commitment of the rapporteur and a constructive climate that has allowed us to accept and approve many amendments to the Decree-Law, the text of which has also been further enriched thanks to the amendments tabled to the Commission by the Government in the spectre of the problems faced by this decree-law on local authorities. Of course, by its nature, this measure is open to various fields of action. This has always been the case, and it is clear that this is an omnibus measure in which there are issues that are addressed both by the amendments and by the parliamentary dialectic and by the amendments proposed by the Government. It seems to me that, overall, the measure has a positive sign, because it indicates the direction of progress being made in the progressive easing of the constraints of the Stability Pact. This is a measure that gives certainty to local authorities and enables them, especially the Provinces and metropolitan areas, to draw up budgets. In fact, I believe that we are all aware that without the intervention provided for in the draft law in our examination there were many Provinces and metropolitan areas that would not have been able to approve the budget and that they would have immediately gone into disrepute. It is clear that we must arrive at the adoption of the constitutional bill: we are working very hard for this to take place here in the Senate, already in the coming weeks, at the resumption of the work of September. It will result in the overcoming of the Provinces that are provided for in the Constitution and that, until the constitutional reform is approved, they will have to continue to carry out their duties. It is clear that we must put them in a position to approve the budgets and find the resources to manage the remaining activities that are still in the hands of the Provinces. The proposed measures, with the amendments that have been adopted, address the problem, because they give the Provinces the opportunity to approve the budget for 2015 alone, in violation of the provisions that provide that the budget for local authorities should be multiannual: if the Provinces and metropolitan areas had still been put in place to approve the multiannual budgets, there would have been a lot of those in disrepute. It is an important decision because, by giving them the opportunity to approve the 2015 budget, we allow us to move forward next year. There is a re-determination of sanctions: there were many Provinces and metropolitan areas that had broken the pact and for this reason the sanctions had been placed on the shoulders of provincial budgets. This was also one of the conditions that led to the impossibility of making budgets. Some of the groups had tabled amendments to ask for sanctions not to be applied; I believe that this would have been a more effective measure. There was a difficulty on the part of the Government in accepting these amendments. In the end, a solution comes out that reduces sanctions by 30%, because we move from three to two with a saving indicated in the report by the rapporteur, Mrs Zanoni, by about 60 million, which go in favour of the Provinces and the local authorities. In addition, there are another 30 million inserted with an amendment in favour of the Milan metropolitan area and in favour, for 30 million, of the Provinces, which therefore have additional resources to move forward. In the same way, derogations have been made on the recruitment front, giving the Provinces the possibility, especially with regard to the problem of the precarious of the Provinces, to summarize for the next year those already in service. Also for the municipalities there are important interventions: one is the lengthening of the times to return from the failure. It may seem a minor issue, but bringing - as we have done - from three to four years the possibility of return allows many municipalities not to go into disrepute or, in any case, to return from the failure in a much more manageable and sustainable way. There is also the renegotiation of loans, which gives the municipalities the opportunity to have more resources to spend. The same applies to the measures on calamitous events that have occurred in our country. I think we should consider them from a legislative point of view. I believe that we should go beyond the procedures that lead us to have to discuss minimum adjustments every time in Parliament's Chambers. I have read in the Commission the proposals concerning Abruzzo. Discussing how procurement is done, how it is done, how it works, is, in my opinion, one of the things that are proper to regional legislation. It would be advisable to have a framework law that could determine a framework within which to bring back the calamitous events, the management of which is then entrusted to the Regions. I believe that this would give us a chance for more timely and even more immediate action. Overall, we must move towards a progressive overcoming of the Stability Pact. I think that this must be the objective to which we must aim and this measure is a step towards it. The overcoming of the Pact must give certainties and resources to local authorities in order to allow, above all, the local authorities - I believe that the country needs this very much - to play an important role in the economic recovery by encouraging public investment, knowing that they are leaving and are faster if they are investments of the local authorities system. If we finance the great public work, the opening times of the yard are always medium-long, while the yards that open up financing the interventions (as is also done with this measure on the school front, on the question of asbestos and as we have done with the provision on good school, which allocates three billion investments) open immediately, because the municipalities, the Provinces and the metropolitan areas already have in their drawers projects that can have financing for the investments. The economic recovery that is taking place must also be supported by public intervention: by a large contribution of public investment that can be shared mainly by local authorities, if we put in conditions the local authorities, overcoming the constraints, to be able to play their part on this front with investments that can be made very quickly. The other port to which we must aim is the reunification of the local tax system. We must aim to have a single local tax, the local tax, which covers the myriad of rates and leaps that we have at the local level, starting from the IMU, thus going to its overcoming, as announced by the President of the Council and thus making a passage that can restore confidence to citizens and businesses that can, with a single tax, have a more immediate reference to what they pay to the local agency and to what is the return in terms of services and services. The other issue I want to address is metropolitan areas. Here too we must move towards a progressive differentiation, which I do not even see in this measure, of the treatment by Parliament and by the Government between the Provinces and the metropolitan areas. We have designated a path that will lead to constitutional reform and overcoming the Provinces. On the other hand, we have incorporated metropolitan areas into the Constitution. Having inserted the metropolitan areas means that the State and Parliament want to bet on an open international competition between the large metropolitan areas. We probably went too far, inserting too many metropolitan areas. The data tell us that there are not so many metropolitan areas in Italy but, at least the three or four most important areas are the areas that will be destined to compete on an international European level with the other large metropolitan areas. It is in these areas, in fact, that the highest level of GDP growth is produced, because the front of innovation and investment is more open. If that is true, we must put the metropolitan areas in a position to function, giving them an imposing certainty. I had tabled an amendment to the ANCI proposal on this front, which I withdrew, but in the law of stability this issue will necessarily have to be reopened. We must invest in metropolitan areas, in the area of increasing resources, in the area of delegations to be given by the regions, which do not yet grant them and which have a great deal of resistance to metropolitan areas on a number of issues. The problems that we are experiencing these days, especially in Rome, on transport, on the environment, on urban development are problems of a vast area that only metropolitan areas will be able to manage effectively. It is absurd that in order to reach the center of Rome who, like me, lives in the hinterland of Rome, must take... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u33	Senator Lucherini, I invite you to conclude. You have already exceeded the ten-minute time allocated to you by three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u34	Mr Lucherini (PD). I shall conclude, Madam President. As I said, it is absurd that in order to reach the centre of Rome, those who, like me, live in the hinterland of Rome, must take a plurality of means. There is a need for a single management of transport services and environmental services. The last question concerns an important intervention contained in the measure in favour of the Lazio Region. I believe that this is a meritorious intervention by the Government, because it allows the Region, with an anticipation of the third plan of hospital building that concerned the Region, to restructure all the first aid of the Roman hospitals, which will be the front for the emergencies of the great Jubilee that will open in Rome in the coming months. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u35	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us today with urgent provisions on territorial authorities provides for an additional allocation of EUR 2 billion for the payment of public administration debts, against a total debt that is still around EUR 50 billion and does not allow the regions the possibility of excluding investments in balance of budget even if they have respected payment times to suppliers. The measure we are debating should have made clear the staff of the Provinces on compulsory mobility and, on the other hand, only give the municipalities the opportunity to take it, even if they did not comply with the Stability Pact: but what makes us think that the mayors who hire such staff will not be penalised in any other way? It is clear that there is yet another seemingly decisive measure: on the one hand, the constraints of the Stability Pact for the Municipalities are loosened, but on the other hand, the additional EUR 100 million planned for each year from 2015 to 2018 will have a destination constraint, such as the EUR 40 million planned for the safety of schools and the reclamation of sites polluted by asbestos throughout Italy (in addition, it is quite ridiculous, of a facade, perhaps planned to put the conscience in order?). The 5 Star Movement has tried, as always, to make its contribution to the improvement of this text, but it was not at all considered our proposals in the Commission. You are about to raise yet another question of trust today, once again subtracting the House from the right to do its job, but - even more serious - preventing the opposition from repairing your mistakes, which will penalise - indeed, they are already doing so seriously - the citizens. In the text, ladies and gentlemen, some rules have also been included on the reconstruction of private buildings in the Abruzzo territories affected by the earthquake of 6 April 2009, provisions millantate even a moment ago by my fellow Senator Pezzopane, such as the urgent measures for the acceleration, legality and transparency of reconstruction operations, which are actually confusing, approximate and not decisive, indeed, schizophrenic and dangerous. I refer mainly to paragraph 2 of Article 11, in which it is established that the director of the works and the static tester may not have had relations with the entrusted undertaking of the works in the last three years, to the detriment of the enterprises, the workers and the local intelligences. The paradox of paradoxes, however, colleagues - and it would be laughable, if there were not really to be weeping - occurs when the Government, in the person of the undersecretary De Micheli, who, among other things, has the delegation to reconstruction, replaces, in a measure that must guarantee greater legality in the reconstruction operations, the obligation for the entrusted undertaking of the works to produce the anti-mafia certification and of contributory regularity, as provided for by law 7 August 2012, n. 134, with a simple self-certification, justifying the refusal of the alleged request of a white list with a fear for the obsessed prefectures of work. In light of yesterday's new arrests for the bulimia of props, even the absence of this white list makes this provision useless and harmful. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen and representatives of the Government, when will you decide to bring the measure to the House to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry in order to finally ascertain the political responsibilities of this disaster? Paragraph 4 of Article 11 recognizes the qualification of public service agents to the administrators and legal representatives of the condominium and to the commissioners of the compulsory consortia dedicated to the performance of professional services aimed at the reconstruction of the common parts of the damaged properties. This provision requires serious reflection because it risks to multiply those shadow areas, already largely occurred in the Marchetti management, represented by the unfair inclusion in the contribution to the reconstruction of some homes and properties in disuse and with serious damage prior to the earthquake of 2009, financed up to three million euros. It is clear that, in doing so, resources are being taken away from those who, in fact, have the sacred right to receive them for the reconstruction of their homes. In fact, there are citizens whose houses are not rebuilt and reside in CASE projects. In addition to having to pay the rent and maintenance (which is not done), they are also vexed by the payment of bills calculated with the system provided for in paragraph 8-d, article 4 of the decree-law 12 September 2014, n. 133, better known as decree unlocks Italy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Blundo, I invite you to conclude. BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, I shall conclude. You and the proposers have established the unfair criterion of gross areas covered by housing compared to the fairest of actual consumption, unaware of the condition of extreme difficulty and economic hardship that the elderly and those who have lost their jobs because of the earthquake and who, after six years, have not found it. In order to approve the amendment tabled by my colleague, Mr Pelino, you asked for it to be reworded in order to prolong this unjust harassment until April 2016. Many others would be the measures to be taken in the context of the Aquilan reconstruction. First of all, it would have been necessary to reunite the offices of reconstruction and there is still no regional law. Moreover, it could have been useful to address the long-standing problem of cellars and cavities pertaining to houses, calculating them as gross surfaces (which is quite different from the transformations, which have occurred, of haystacks in villas). This government of appearance, in line with its predecessors, makes citizens believe that the recognition of merit is the distinctive character of its every political choice, but it has now made evident its true face on the occasion of the pseudo-reform of the school. Nobody forgets. And awareness grows from hour to hour; there are attacks on democracy and openness to lawlessness. Despite the media manipulation of information, your time, gentlemen, is running out and we see clear signals everywhere. Listen to me: rethink before the worst happens, or go home! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u37	Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u38	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the great work they have done on such a complex draft law, which certainly required much more effort and attention than those normally reserved for measures. I would also like to point out that on the more general aspects of territorial authorities, thanks also to their careful activity, results have been obtained which, in some way, reduce the difficulties they encounter in carrying out their functions at the moment. Since, however, I believe that competence comes first, I will confine myself to speaking on the subject that I think I know better, namely Article 9 of the decree-law in question, which concerns the health sector and which, unfortunately, in these days - and I will explain then why I use the adverb unfortunately - has been the subject of a debate, not justified in the time, but which shows the inattention that, for the umpteenth time and at all levels, is devoted to health policies. I shall enter into the substance of the amendment tabled by the Government to Article 9, which is limited - or should be limited - to reproduce, as far as regulatory coverage is required, the agreement signed on 2 July between the Regions and the Central Government, for health cuts. I know very well that someone could take me back, saying that that arrangement does not involve cuts, but optimization in the use of resources. I think I have enough experience in the health sector to say that this agreement, unfortunately, mainly involves cuts. It is useless for us to believe that it is only an optimization of resources: I am sorry to say that, because I am a member of the majority, I have always loyally supported it and I expect it, on a fundamental right, recognised by the Constitution, such as the protection of the health of citizens, to occasionally try to wonder if what it is doing is really innovative or if it is not the replica of what has been done in this area for too many years. First of all that agreement was signed on 2 July, unfortunately very late compared to what was expected: it should have been reached much earlier, since it is in implementation of the provisions of the Stability Act for 2015. That agreement, to quote one figure, brings the planned expenditure for 2015 to less than EUR 110 billion - roughly EUR 109.7 billion - when, on the occasion of the approval of the 2013 DEF update note, that is, a year and a half ago, we had foreseen a planned expenditure, for 2015, of EUR 115.4 billion. In one and a half years we have therefore planned to cut the health sector by more than EUR 5 billion in funding. Some might say that there are still margins of inefficiency in the health sector, which need to be pursued. We all agree that this is the case and that they should be prosecuted until we are able to do so. The problem is another: after all the cuts that have been made and the restrictions that have been imposed on the health service, in recent years, for a long time - I stress that in 2014 we spent less than we spent in 2010 - I just remember that the OECD tells us that public health expenditure in Italy is too low and endangers the protection of citizens. We spend two points of GDP in less than France and Germany: on this we are certainly more virtuous than Germany. As far as resource optimisation measures are concerned, as we say, the health sector has been doing interventions for many years. It must therefore be realised that, at some point, we cannot go on in this way and above all that we cannot continue to impose on citizens the measures that are being decided, because more and more we are realizing that citizens, especially those with fewer economic possibilities and health problems, are giving up health care. This is what ISTAT says and it is a new event for Italy: 11% of citizens, although in need, renounce a health service for economic reasons or because there is no offer on the territory. I believe that this is confirmed by the experience that each of us has, because of some friends, some acquaintances or some suggestions that we have received as parliamentarians: in the end we give up the benefits for the citizens simply to ensure, when we succeed, the balance of the budget. I therefore ask a centre-left government to give priority not to budgetary balance, which is sacrosanct, especially at a time of public finance difficulties, but to citizens' rights, which come before budgetary balances. If then the exercise must only be accounting, and this is the example that comes from the central level, it is inevitable that at the decentralised levels, from regions to health care companies to health professionals, the only imperative that you feel is to avoid spending, even when this is to the detriment of the citizens, even when it means not to provide the benefits anymore and to let yourself be demotivated to the point of considering the health system that we have a system of which you no longer feel part. This is a serious problem: to the point where we have arrived, to continue to reduce resources with photocopier interventions compared to what we have done in the past, without realizing that there is a need for an end to work to be agreed with the operators, does not produce results. In fact, there is no result in health care, even more so in the short term, if we do not cooperate with operators on the roads they want to take and do not inform citizens of the risks they are taking in certain cases - I shall speak after the principle of propriety - and we end up writing rules that are not implemented and do not give results, not even from the point of view of budgetary balances and savings. The problem, therefore, is not today of accounting, but of democracy of this country, of protecting the rights of citizens who need health care. My intervention may seem irritating, because it comes from the majority, but I really do care that measures are taken in the area of health policies that are still possible, if we want to, and that interventions are made that first of all qualify the health supply, especially in the territorial realities and in the regions that have not been able to organize a suitable health offer in the years 2000. I'm trying to report two problems here. First of all, on health policies we have been recording for some time - and this is what the health world repeatedly stresses and I want these Houserooms to hear it repeat - a weakness of the central level because, as I said, if it is rightly able to check the budgetary balances of the regions, it is, however, too weak to verify the guarantee of the essential levels of assistance in the regions and health companies. On this weakness of the central level in the Health Pact it was said that there would be a hand, but after a year nothing has yet been done. Secondly, we see a great weakness in regional levels, which have renounced the exercise of those competences relating to programming, the organisation and operation of services, and the provision of the essential levels, which have long been called for in the reform of Title V. Very often the regions simply spend the money they have, but that is not what an institution responsible for protecting the health of citizens must do. This weakness, coupled with the weakness of the central level, resulted in the agreement of 2 July, in which action is expected only to achieve new expenditure savings, with many weaknesses. I understand that we are at a very difficult time, but let me give you an example. There is much talk of inappropriate health care and it is absolutely right. Many of us worked on this many years ago, recommending that this road be pursued; today we are recognized internationally that Italy has made a great deal of progress in this regard, just look at the OECD data. However, combating inappropriateness does not simply mean giving up public money to pay for the benefits that are prescribed or that citizens require; it means informing citizens, that in health matters they suffer from informational asymmetries and lack of knowledge compared to what they need to solve their health problems, that some benefits are inappropriate not because they make money, but because they are expensive and harmful and present greater risks than the benefits they can get. On the other hand, it says in this provision that inappropriateness is the responsibility of the citizens, and this demonstrates the vetusity of the reasoning behind these measures. The problem is not to make citizens pay for inappropriate benefits, but to inform them because they are inappropriate benefits and to ensure that they are not guaranteed even for citizens. This is the new way to protect uninformed consumers of health care. This is the modernity in this system, not only that of saving expenses.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u39	I invite you to conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u40	DIRINDIN (PD). I would like to stress other points, but I shall conclude. I am sorry that the amendment submitted by the Government does not present the paragraphs that are fully faithful to the agreement signed between the State and the Regions; there are additional elements and missing elements. We in Parliament are actually asked to ratify the agreement that has already been signed: at least that there is everything and only what is in the understanding; there are additional elements and elements that are missing, that we have allowed ourselves to point out with some amendments, that it had even received the clearance from the Ministry of Health (because perhaps they were disattentions), and then the Government has expressed negative opinion in the examination of the Budget Commission. At least ask yourself to ratify what has been agreed between the State and the Regions and not added. In addition to the agreement there are other interventions, some very important because they concern the risk of infection, the health organization on the occasion of the Jubilee and so on, but there is one - and I am speaking of course personally, as I have done so far - that I am very sorry, because we had also discussed it for a long time with the Minister: I am referring to the 240 recruitments to AIFA. AIFA needs to be reordered, together with the Higher Institute of Health and the AGENAS. The supervised bodies need a reorder: to be recruited without tidying up the functions and the ways in which they operate seems to me to be an escape forward that I do not see in other more important areas. That frankly, I'm sorry. [[Applause from the PD and LN-Aut groups and Senator Bertorotta]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Gentile. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u42	Madam President, this decree-law on local and regional authorities in the process of conversion is the result of serious, thorough and robust work, which puts the citizen in a position today to rethink the respect that exists in the formation of consensus, especially in the local and territorial institutions and authorities. Obviously, not all things have gone the right way and we must raise some questions, because there has been a sum injustice towards some regions of the Mezzogiorno, and especially towards the region to which I belong, Calabria, with reference to an amendment tabled by my colleagues D'Ascola and Lo Moro, made also by the two rapporteurs, Chiavaroli and Zanoni, who had tried with great effort to prevent this injustice from taking place. I am referring to the problem concerning the LSU-LPU (about 6,000 employees who have been operating for years in municipalities and local authorities), who could have found adequate accommodation with this decree-law (which is not welfare, beware, like the one typically southern done in other parts of the country). These are workers who for years have occupied important positions also in local authorities, in the regional administration, and who had and have the sacrosanct right to be settled after very long years of precarious work carried out for decades in our regions. Well, for an accounting sophism, for a procedural difficulty, we had a refusal to approve the amendment and we do not understand the reason for it. First of all, I would like to appeal to President Grasso, because only he can put his own house in order in this area and only he can ensure that this problem, which affects thousands of workers in Calabria, is included in the maxi mum amendment. It is these hours the news that in Calabria the workers have occupied the highways, that as you know they work with hiccups or do not work at all, and they have blocked the ships to Villa San Giovanni, because they consider unacceptable that the Regions that are already historically subject to a serious infrastructural gap, are suffering this ulterior mortification from the Government. I therefore call on President Grasso first of all to take this matter up again and have it included in the maxi amendment and secondly to ensure that, if this cannot happen, it is fully expressed, with a written proposal, on what the role of these workers will be in the coming months and in the coming years. I want to say that if you make a commitment today, maybe you can also solve the problem in the law of stability that we will produce here a few months from now. On this point, I would like to insist that a wider debate should be held on Calabria. Calabria is a land abandoned by God and men; you will have seen what has happened in recent months on the roads: to recover a lane on the highway you have worked for six months, the provincial roads are in complete abandonment, the Region should push more and organize the work especially for the development of this Region, and instead you work on a bureaucratic level so that this gap becomes more and more extensive than other regions of the country. I must also say that Calabria still suffers the highest unemployment rate not only in Italy, but in the whole of Europe, so it is required, by the Members present here, who are participating with me in this battle, a more attentive look on the part of the Government. Not only that, but the Government is being asked to make a direct commitment to the South Regions, especially to those that have suffered more than others the delays and this type of degenerative process in the relationship between voters and elected and especially for our two million inhabitants who live in truly exasperating conditions. The last appeal, therefore, I address it to the Government but also to President Grasso, renewing the invitation to revise in the maxi amendment this procedural error that has been committed, to which I am sure it will be remedied, especially because it was not the resources allocated by the Government, but the resources drawn from the FAS funds or in any case from the budget funds of the Region. For this reason, when you make a mistake and you deny a right to citizens, a careful and sensitive government can only meet these sections of the population and solve the problem at its root, declaring that an error has occurred and that it will be corrected in this maxi amendment to the bill that we will go to vote from here to a few hours. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u43	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u44	Madam President, as I do not have much time available, I shall confine myself to a political reflection and ask you to be able to give an addition to my speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u45	You always start your speeches with this request. I'll allow it, but you know you only have five minutes, because then we'll have to suspend our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u46	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with interest to all the speeches that have been made since I was present here. In particular, that of Senator Dirindin, a very polite and well-prepared person, has also given me a lesson, showing me how important the parliamentary debate is in this House. This leads me to think that our discussions in this House are often unnecessary. We are debating, we are trying to bring forward certain proposals that could improve the text, in this case Decree-Law No 78 of 2015, with urgent provisions on territorial authorities, but then we realize that the Government, insensitive, does nothing but pose the thirty-sixth question of trust, forgetting the parliamentary debate and this volume of 452 pages containing amendments and agendas that were to be discussed in this Parliament, but that will not be discussed. Senator Dirindin, who made a strong and honest intellectual statement, is right in talking about a central-left government. This is a central-left government that has done some partially good things, is doing something that is not good and we contest it. But - I repeat - this is a central-left government. I repeat this for the second time to stress this to my friend, Senator Gentile, who spoke last in this House speaking with his heart as they say, in dialectal calabrese jargon, which is his Region, to support some amendments and some reflections concerning the land of Calabria. For a moment I was confused, dear friend Senator Gentile, because I thought you were in opposition, while you are in the majority but, although you support the government with your ministers, you can't hack with your New Right Center into a center-left government, even if you're ashamed to say so. But I am not ashamed, and I have the courage to say that this central-left government occasionally does something good, but 99% of the things it does are useless and unproductive for the country. I accept the reflections made by my colleagues in the centre-left and left-wing; indeed, many times, when they say right and right things in the interests of the country, I do nothing but listen to and share them. What are you guys doing with the NCD? All the other way around. Call the government back. Among other things, your Undersecretary, who is on the bench of the Presidency, not only does he not listen to you, but he calls just as Mr Gentile's speech takes place, because he does not give any weight to what he says, nor to what the New Right Centre says. You, who say you belong to a center-right area, are not only not heard, but are worthless within a center-left government. I, with pride, say that inside the center-left there are decent, honest people who want the good of this country, but I have the courage to say that this is a central-left government. Madam President, we have a volume of 452 pages containing amendments and agendas, but the government, insensitive, is about to cancel them without giving any opportunity for debate. Yet at other times, precisely on 6 November 2008, colleagues from the center-left and PD shouted in the Montecitorio Chamber to say that that government, then represented by the center-right and Berlusconi, not only did not behave correctly, but applied a deprecable policy. Do you know why, Madam President? Because there was a topic on the agenda on which the government had put its trust. I, with my heart in my hand and with the utmost respect, unlike what my friend Gentile said, address President Grasso and you, President-in-Office of the Council, so that the Government does not come forward all the time with the question of trust and apply what President Fini was going to do to the House, which, at the time when the Berlusconi Government presented itself with the request for a vote of confidence, said that it was a politically despicable behaviour. And he added: it is an anomalous and politically regrettable situation, because Parliament, in this case in the House, is deprived of the right-duty to discuss it. So, dear Senator Gentile, I heard these words from Fini. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please, Senator. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Today I have not heard either President Grasso or President Boldrini intervene to defend Parliament from this disaster and from this injustice on the part of the Government in constantly putting... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You know very well that the two Presidents apply the rules of this Parliament. I would ask you to conclude, Senator, also because you have exceeded your time and have already filed your written statement. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). I'll finish. Always putting the vote of confidence is really - and I quote the word, without offending anyone, because it is of common use - "shameful." [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u47	Colleagues, as communicated in another session, I suspend the work that will resume at 1 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.20 a.m. and resumed at 10.01 p.m.) The session is resumed. Senator Tarquinio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what most dismays and causes everyone to be shocked is how lightly the prejudices are being taken. Senator D'Ali's excellent speech highlighted how we are preparing to examine a decree-law on local authorities when we are doing anything else: it seems that we are discussing the law of stability; we are using arguments that have nothing to do with it. This goes on with the Renzi Government and the previous governments. We forget rules and regulations. When in a country and in a Parliamentary Assembly we start not to respect rules and regulations, it means that we are at the grave of democracy because without rules and without rules we do not go anywhere. This happens. We have followed the debate and local and territorial authorities have heard little, because they are all rightly interested in much more, such as health and those who have more. We have heard interventions of a purely localistic nature. There is never an overall intervention; perhaps many people forget that we represent the territories here, but also a nation at the end of the day and we should learn to do more national parliamentarians than local parliamentarians. It often seems to be on a regional or municipal council. I say this with serenity. This is the real fact that there is. As far as local authorities are concerned, it is true that there is no government response to a measure that local authorities have been waiting for for six months. They had given room to the law of stability with the blackmail of what would happen and that did not happen. Local authorities in recent years have suffered cuts of as much as 17 billion euros, although at the end of the accounts, though blamed, weigh very little compared to both the public debt and the total public expenditure in the national panorama. Therefore, the possible and enormous waste is primarily to be found in the central government and in the regions themselves. The triggering effects were derived from the 2001 reform which gave excessive powers to the regions. One who has been a regional adviser for five legislatures tells you about this and has seen all the degradation that has occurred in these legislatures. That's the real thing. What does this Government do for local authorities and municipalities? He continues to think of rewarding the non-virtuous Municipalities, reducing any penalties, and not rewarding the virtuous Municipalities, to which nothing is granted. There is no answer. There's absolutely nothing. This is what is somewhat perplexing, even with respect to the initial overall picture because, as I said, we are not discussing draft law No. 1977, but something else here. And then let's talk about the reform of the Provinces, this well-known reform of this government. It's a disaster! Something incredible, compared to which one pretends nothing. And this government goes on like nothing else, predicting further cuts without wondering how the Provinces will do the residual tasks, such as road maintenance and school maintenance. If someone dies on the provincial roads of all Italy or in schools who will answer? The principal, the manager of the province's technical office, or who didn't make sure there were resources? Does this Government know that since September no province of Italy will be able to pay more salaries if it has to do these works? But how reckless are you going to go on? What view do you have of the situation? This has something incredible! It's nothing! Where are we going? What reforms has this Government made? It's talk! This reform of the territorial provinces is a shame and nothing more than a shame. And with serenity, everyone, beyond the parts, let's pretend nothing. Let us pretend nothing in the face of the continuous violation of rules and regulations. In this country we are eating democracy, and we do not notice it, day by day. We're delegitimizing ourselves with these behaviors. That's the real thing. Honestly, then, I hope it's over someday. And what's amazing is that a former mayor, a former president of the Province (and, as far as I'm concerned, I hope as soon as possible ex Premier) makes mistakes of this kind. It is something incredible and it means that you are out of the reality of the country. To boast of reforms. But what reforms? However, I shall conclude because I have to give my colleague time to intervene. I would have had so much more to say. I feel a deep disappointment and my vote, and I also believe that of my Group, will certainly be against this kind of shame. [[Applause from the CRi Group and Senator Pelino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u49	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the decree-law has long been awaited by the mayors, who are struggling with a very difficult financial and organizational situation. It is, however, a little late, since it served the forecast budget while we are already almost two thirds of the financial year, of course, provisional. The decree-law, which was very bad in its adoption, has undoubtedly benefited from the work done in the Commission. However, many issues remain open, which are urgent to be addressed in order to give certainty to the administrative action of the first citizens. Moreover, the decree-law gives bland answers to the situation - this truly emergency and dramatic - in which the Provinces were plunged with the Delrio reform. One cannot enter into the merit of the contents without taking stock of the state in which the territorial authorities are located, especially since the end of 2011, with the choices made by the governments of the appointed Monti, Letta and Renzi (all with PD traction), with successive laws of stability and various measures related to the emergency and electoral operations have suffered devastating institutional attacks, as well as heavy and irresponsible operations to cover public finance maneuvers made by linear cuts. For the North League, therefore, this is a decree-law that attempts to repair, and only partially does so, to the detriment - for us to a large extent irreversible - brought by a neocentralist becero to the system of local autonomy, where it wanted to give the responsibility to put taxes on someone else. I come to the section of the Regions that, from 2009 to 2012, has reduced primary spending by 38 percent, compared to a weight of only 4.5%, while the central administrations, that they affect for 24 percent, have operated a reduction of only 12 percent. And let's point out the last devastating mile, with the last law of stability, where the cut was 7,8 billion, equal to 5% of primary spending, compared to 1.2% of central ministries. But wasn't the target supposed to be 3% for everyone? And we come to the agencies of wide area. The Delrio law had to simplify, but it did not cancel the Provinces: from the point of view of governance it is okay, but in the 69 Provinces out of 76 of the Regions with ordinary statute the second level elections took place and we have a new President not democratically elected by the citizens. On the other hand, there is a complete failure on simplification. Different models are being created in each region. Today the landscape of the entities has widened and dominates the chaos: in addition to the Regions, the metropolitan cities and the Provinces, we have the Mountain Provinces, the Associated Provinces, the Municipalities, the Unions of Municipalities, the Unions of Mountain Municipalities and the regional agencies, not to mention what is happening in the Regions with special statute. In Friuli, for example, from four Provinces it has changed to 17 miniprovinces; in Sicily there is the plan of the revolution of two years ago of Crocetta to pass from the Provinces to the free consortia, even if this certainly will become one of the greatest legislative bluffs of the pallinato governor. Excuse me, colleagues, but do you think there will be savings? We say no. There is also a worrying delay on the reorganization of functions. Notes the fundamental ones, such as roads, schools, environment, assistance to the municipalities, remained a total marasma on all the other regional derivation. Even on employment centres there is an incredible situation: today they have to manage an exceptional condition, made up of rising unemployed and the youth guarantee with a reduced staff (and they cost 550 million, while with Article 15 of this decree-law only 70 are foreseen, then raised to 90). Where do you get the other money? The resources are few for the Provinces, especially if compared to the forecasts of the law of stability, which previews the payment to the State by the Provinces of a billion in 2015, of two in 2016 and three in 2017, not counting the cuts of previous provisions, that only this year amount to an additional 337 million. Then there is the serious problem of the staff: the law of stability had arranged to reduce the expenditure by 50% at the end of March, but - as expected, and we told you - everything remained on the chopstick of the Provinces, given the lack of relocation. The paradox: the Provinces must manage all the services, without resources, but with all the staff. From the latter point of view, there is also the particular problem of the provincial police, which - I remember - deals not only with fines on the roads, but also with the environment and with fish controls, hunting and administrative checks. The initial prediction of the transfer of all the agents of the provincial police to the municipalities, now fortunately averted, is the demonstration that the government is out of the world and lives far from reality. In short, the link between functions, resources and guarantees of financial coverage has completely skipped, a madness also certified by the Court of Auditors. Even if there were an acceleration, as you wish, of Delrio, the system, ladies and gentlemen, would not stand: I remember that the Provinces that have dozens, if not hundreds of employees, hundreds of kilometers of roads and dozens of schools, have only a handful of euros available: only for the heating, the light and the insurance of schools, they all go away already. How can they work for the prevention of hydrogeological failure, for the safety of mountain slopes and for the maintenance of bridges and roads such as holes, signs, snow clearing and antifreeze procedures? The Provinces, ladies and gentlemen, are in a very bad place: I remember that last year 33 did not comply with the Stability Pact and many others this year will follow them. If Delrio doesn't want to be a failure, we need to find the resources. To have allowed, with this decree-law to approve the annual budget and not the triennial is something, yes: perhaps in the immediate avoids the failure, but risks prolonging the agony. It was necessary to restore the Provinces of personnel expenses incurred since 1 January and reduce the cuts in the law of stability, otherwise the sector will go into disarray. The country needed reform of common sense, not demential Delrio reform. After those of the Provinces, let's move on to the cries of grief of the Municipalities. In these years of fiscal consolidation, the municipalities have played the lion's part. Between the objectives of the Stability Pact, cuts in transfers and cuts in the City Solidarity Fund, the municipalities have given almost EUR 18 billion, of which only 12.3 billion in the last four years. With reference to transfer cuts alone, it rose from 1.5 billion in 2011 to 8.3 billion in 2015. The increase in local taxation was thus inevitable, with the mayors called upon to be the state's collectors. As for the taxation of real estate, there has been the shift from 9.2 billion ICI revenue in 2011 to 25 billion revenue, between IMU and TASI, in 2014. I wonder where we'll get to at the end of this year. These increases not only paralysed the real estate market, but did not cover the cuts, since the IMU for category D (i.e. the sheds) was addressed to the State with a forceful withdrawal. We are therefore faced with low quality services and low maintenance of roads and schools. Ladies and gentlemen, we have now reached the paradox that there are many municipalities which, while they received 20 to 30% of their current expenditure until 2010, are now called upon to contribute to the Municipal Solidarity Fund. For the first time there are 600 million euros of local taxes that must be transferred to the State: a sort of decentralised finance on the contrary, which only in Lombardy touches 130 municipalities. The decline in investment should also be highlighted. Since 2007 investments for the Municipality have decreased by 38%, almost 6 billion euros, of which two thirds only in the last four years. Added to this is the 44 percent collapse of those operated by the Provinces in the last five years. It was an irresponsible renunciation of some point of GDP. I now come to the contents of the decree-law, deeply modified in the Commission, until it becomes an omnibus measure, which deals with much more than the only issue of territorial authorities, such as the Customs Agency, the Police, Fincantieri and much more. We would have liked the so-called anti-TASI Fund to be fully restored, while only 530 million, compared with 625 million, were given, with the constraint that one party should cover the lower revenue from the agricultural IMU, which Renzi had promised to eliminate. We would have liked more financial space than crumbs - I am referring to EUR 100 million - for the security of territory and schools. We would have liked an answer now to the small municipalities for the obligation to resort to the single purchasing power stations. Dear representatives of the Government, we will be watching over your commitment to solving the problem in September. We do not like, for example, the recovery of the escaped TARI, which becomes a cost to cover in tariff in the following year. Those who are honest pay twice, even for dishonest ones. We do not like the contribution allocated to the Lazio Region of 33 million euros for the Jubilee, as well as the failure to extend interventions in support of the earthquake zones, not only of Emilia, but also of Veneto and Lombardy. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I have 12 minutes to speak. We do not like more money in favor of Pompeii, who are almost a prize for having left out of the gates about 2,000 tourists and visitors for the union assembly. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We do not like health cuts - EUR 2.3 billion from this year - without applying standard costs. This is an unacceptable declaration of war to the virtuous regions. He then shouted for revenge the Government's response to the requests of the three Venetian municipalities of Mira, Dolo and Pianiga to cover the damage suffered by the tornado of 8 July last, which devastated the Riviera del Brenta. Faced with a provisional estimate of almost 100 million damage, the two million allocated by the Government for the urgent amounts and the granting of the relief of the Pact (which will allow the three municipalities to spend, perhaps, the 7.5 million euros they should have in cash) is a shameful almsgiving and a modest aid that risks, moreover, jumping due to the uncertainty of the cover. This measure is a shame, compared with the €200 million allocated to cover yet another hole in the Sicilian Region's budget. Another mountain of money, coming in part - I stress - also from the Venetian taxpayers and in particular from the same ones who have lost everything on the Brenta Riviera. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Is this the fight against waste that Renzi and his economic advisor Gutgeld are babbling about? No, this is an offense, it is yet another insult to people, such as the Venetian one, who makes sacrifices, pays taxes and accepts, collaborating, the reorganization of services, in an effort to spend less and better, he rolls up his sleeves to rise from calamities. No, we're not, dear government. This decree-law gives insufficient answers and indeed the municipalities, the Provinces and the Regions continue to collect bitter bites. [[Recalls of the President]] I'm done, Mr. President. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u51	You've had more than your allotted time, Senator Arrigoni, as you use, by practice.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u52	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u53	Mr President, I rise to denounce what happened in the Budget Committee at its session on 23 July 1977 on the debate on the Senate Act, in which the rapporteur proposed a rewording of amendment 7,132, tabled by myself, which would also address the issues raised by amendments 7,131 and 7,133, concerning the extension to 2020 of State aid concessions. The new text of amendment 7.32, drawn up by Senator Santini, was made available to the senators and annexed to the report of the sitting. With the favourable opinion of Mr Bressa, amendment 7.132 (text 2) was put to the vote and accepted by the Commission, incorporating amendments 7.131 and 7.133. What, then, would be the problem? Well, I was not present in the Commission, and consequently the rapporteur should have declared the amendment to lapsed. Would Senator Santini, the author of the reformulation, have had to do so just before the declaration of forfeiture, and therefore propose a text two by his own signature, according to the rapporteur's instructions, also because, Mr President, the first signatory's consent is needed to add the signature, or have the rules changed? Instead you were kind enough to leave the signature of the undersigned, so that you would not be held responsible for this action. I would remind you that the current situation, which governs bathing activities, is the result of an old political compromise, which provided for the extension of the deadlines to 2020. The Senate Budget Committee rejected the amendment, giving the conditional green light to an extension of five years, until 2020, more compatible with the mediation of the Government with the European Commission, which instead demanded the appointment of an auction. That maxi amendment therefore provided for the deadline to 2020. This also saved the investment and development plans of the bathing industry. Now the Government seems to want to abandon the national beach businesses and with them the families that guide them (including induced) by amendment 7.32 (text 2), reworded by the rapporteur Zanoni and made precisely by Senator Santini, which sets the deadline of the State concessions at 31 December 2016. I therefore invite the Government to include in its maxi amendment the restoration, in a clear and clear way, of the end of the state property concessions to 2020, as is already foreseen by the law of the State, in order to avoid, in this way, the mortification of the seaside industry. That is why I officially declare that I am withdrawing my signature from Amendment 7.32 (text 2) and I thank my fellow Members for their kindness, to whom I leave the honour and political responsibility for the adoption of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u54	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u55	Mr President, it is not possible to comment in ten minutes on a measure as far-reaching as the one under consideration and so articulated as to regulate within it a number of issues, some of which exorbitantly exorbitate the subject under consideration. I shall therefore comment on one point, which I would ask undersecretary Bressa to listen to. You see, Mr Undersecretary, whenever we are going to cut something and do it for a state of necessity, we always make the same mistake: we make cuts and assume that, without a reform of the methodological and praxis system, subtracting resources from what does not work will make it work better. I'll explain. It's like believing that a car, which has the carburetion that doesn't work - there's the air pulled - decreasing the fuel load, can work better. You are going to make linear cuts to health again and you have the good coverage of the State-Regions Conference because - it has to be said - not everything that does not work depends on the State. We have given full autonomy to the regions, we have given each of them the opportunity to organize their own health system: we have thus created the dress of Harlequin. Is that clear? We have therefore average of the Regions that work very badly, others that work quite badly, others that work little badly, while some - perhaps Lombardy, Emilia-Romagna and even Veneto - works well. You see, Mr Undersecretary, you do not eliminate redundancy and inappropriateness by giving less money to basic doctors or the regions, you do it in another way: you do it by changing the financing system. We continue to finance through expenditure per capita and we fail to understand that we must finance the structures - both those under state and private management - by financing the benefits that each of them provides. Only in this way, by equalizing the type of financing, which must be to defined and predetermined benefits in the amount, can you cut and close hospitals that have not come together or are not prepared to provide services of low complexity and therefore perfectly redundant or compliant copy of the services provided by another hospital located at five or ten kilometers, with the consequent overcrowding of the centres of high speciality. If you do not adopt diagnostic-therapeutic protocols where you go to bind the prescriber to the path to follow, you will not get the elimination of what is redundant and inefficient. On the contrary, you cut the money; but you don't have to cut the money, you have to cut the path, you have to change the financing methodology, because this would make life harder for those who do something, because - I don't know if it follows me, Mr. Undersecretary - to those who do nothing you can take away what you want. Why, then, should the State, which wants to provide health care, which is a noble purpose, not do so with the same criteria as the private entrepreneur? Why does the system work in Lombardy? Because the Region makes the third payer: program and pays, after it has verified the effectiveness of the performance and the efficiency of the structure. Why does the same thing in private cost a quarter, a fifth of what is the similar performance provided by a state-run structure? Why don't you affect this discrasia instead of cutting the funds linearly? You see, then, that reform is a serious matter: if you want to reform you cannot conform to the established practice of achieving greater efficiency by reducing the funds available. Savings must come from efficiency, not from the reduction of allocated resources. The friends of the League are very fond of the standard costs, which are a positive fact; but more than the standard costs we must talk about the financing of the individual benefits provided, because many times the standard cost does what Don Milani called the greatest of injustices: it makes equal parts between unequals. If we, beyond the standard cost, pay the same X-ray, the same laboratory exam, the same hospital stay in DRG outside and inside public facilities, if we use predetermined rates for both, you will see that redundancy ends because then you download on the non-state-run sector most of the cuts. It is from the efficiency of the other sector, that is, that you recover resources that you throw in the cauldron of state health and state hospitality, that is the only, true source of deficit, and it takes courage to say it here; because you exchange efficiency, competition, which are elements that value the merit, the ability, the quality of the performance, as a support to non-state health. That is not the case, Mr. Undersecretary. You say you want to reform but you are going through old ways, which are not standard costs: I say this to you, Mr. Undersecretary, with whom there is a very old cultural community. In the country near me there is a hospital; in 1980 politics, that of organic plants made for the use and consumption of politics, hired four lifts, but in the hospital there were no elevators: it extended all to the ground floor. This is why the standard costs cannot work: because in the North you did the reform, you moved the "hospedalocentric" medicine to medicine on the territory; in the South hospitals were social shock absorbers. What kind of benchmarks do you use? Do you want to measure kilos with liters? Mr. Undersecretary, I tell you with great friendship and great esteem: make sure that the Minister of Health avoids saying the blasphemy that by cutting the funds will improve efficiency. You don't improve anything at all. Tell your minister that he should be from liberal school (as he says, but we who are from Christian Democratic school reabsorb the one and the other thesis), that it is necessary to change the system of financing and pay at a rate here or there, assign diagnostic-therapeutic protocols for every type of pathology because the real savings is not to do tests that do not serve: the point is not to pay them little but not to do them own. The key points, therefore, are: financing, equalization and competition, to put the patient at the centre of the health system, that is, at the centre of quality and efficiency. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u56	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u57	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a text which intervenes in the field of territorial authorities with incisive measures and it is not my intention to go into the substance of the individual interventions proposed, either because they have been largely clarified by the rapporteurs in their reports and by their colleagues themselves, or because I believe that the Commission has done a good job on this text, even considering the limited time at which the matter could be dealt with. And of this we must also give credit to the ability to listen and to mediate the rapporteurs, to whom I extend my heartfelt thanks. On the other hand, I would like to share with you some thoughts, including as Vice-President of the Environment Commission, on an aspect that emerges from the measure, where Article 5 deals with the process of the abolition, in fact, of the Provincial Police, resulting in the transfer of personnel to other administrations. I would point out that I have always been a convinced advocate of the need to redefine, from the organisational point of view, the structure of our police forces, where over time there have been functional overlaps that have often hindered the good performance of security operations and monitoring of the territory. And of course we must also bear in mind the reorganization of the functions that the existing legislation has been defining over the years for local authorities, as well as the reduction of the resources allocated. Surely this is the framework in which the norm is placed in Article 5 that, however, has been the subject of considerable discussions, in virtue of the specificities that characterize, from the operational point of view, the provincial police that - it has already been remembered - is composed of highly specialized professionalism in the matter of environmental supervision and garrison of the extraurban territory, with regard - to make some example - to the control of the cycle of the waste, to the contrast of pollution and poaching. It is estimated that at least one third of environmental crimes are detected by these agents. It is a functional specificity that is not explicitly included in the municipal police functions to which it was decided to pass the 2,700 agents. As Vice-President of the Environment Commission, I have felt that I am intervening with amending proposals on this subject, precisely because I believe that at a time like this when the fight against environmental crime and illegal activities is becoming more and more regulatory and requires more and more incisive and specialised action, the skills and professionalism involved in this area must be maintained. It is clear that the problem emerges strongly now because, paradoxically at the same time, two environmental realities are affected by significant interventions. In fact, while with the decree-law on public administration we have remodulated the Forestry Corps, with this provision we remodulate the Provincial Police. I recognize - for this - and I thank the attention and sensitivity that the rapporteurs have shown towards the many amending proposals presented on this topic and aimed at preserving the environmental competences of provincial police and that has allowed to widen the audience of administrations and functions to which to reassign these agents, to include also the Regions and metropolitan cities, mentioning the exercise of the fundamental functions of these bodies. In this way, further scope has been given for redeployment, so as not to restrict the use of these agents to municipal police functions, given the specific differences between the two realities. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to draw the attention of the Government to this point, so that further reflection may take place on the opportunity to define regulatory initiatives and to make appropriate use of their specific guidelines. This in order not to disperse a professional baggage that allows to provide the necessary and indispensable garrison for the protection of our wonderful environmental heritage. In addition, we must reflect on the fact that any initiative aimed at making the most of professionalism can not, in my opinion, ignore the operational contexts of reference and the safeguards they require. This is precisely why I believe that further consideration should be given to a critical issue which has been affecting, from an operational point of view, the local police sector, as a whole, for four years now. In fact, at the end of 2011, the so-called Italian Salva Italia decree-law abolished for the staff of public administrations some institutes of protection such as the verification of the dependence of the infirmity on cause of service or the fair compensation. This is an absolutely acceptable measure, especially at a time like this. But at the time it was also considered to maintain these institutions for certain categories, due to the particular risk of the functions assigned to them. This is also a sacrosanct principle: if I assign you a risky task, I also guarantee you protection and coverage. The categories to be protected have been identified as persons belonging to the security, defence, fire and public aid sectors: essentially, those engaged in dangerous operations, on the road, with regard to safety and public order. However, the local police have been forgotten, which is now increasingly involved in public order and security operations, but is not part of the aforementioned sector, because it affects the supervision of local authorities. We are talking about about 65,000 staff, who work daily in situations of potential risk exposure, also under the safety pacts, but who are not protected to date, unlike their colleagues in the State Police Corps, Fire Departments, Red Cross and Carabinieri Weapons. I think it is time to recognise the demands of these citizens, to whom the municipalities are increasingly calling for more attention and involvement in risk situations, but without taking responsibility for protecting them, and I hope that the Government will remedy this obvious lack of legislation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u60	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I have asked for the foreign affairs committee to be offended and President Casini has defied it. I would like to understand, however, how many Commissions are currently working and how many Commissions are meeting this evening when we begin the debate on the reform of the RAI. These are important, national issues. You complain that there is little dialogue, that the opposition does not dialogue, but then the work overlaps because Monday did not come to work or because it is the last two weeks of the year. This way of working is not good, especially if you ask for the participation of all senators in the work of this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I ask you, therefore, to condemn the Commission, without prejudice to the Budget Commission, which is the only one that will allow all the other measures to go ahead (I don't know, you decide that). I ask that at least those useless ones get defaced.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u61	That is a sensible observation. The budget committee shall be authorized to work to deliver the prescribed opinions if there are no votes. The remaining committees would do well to follow the work of the House. We'll check if they've brought you together at this stage.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u64	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to reassure my colleague, because the Commission that I am chairing has been misrepresented on your recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u65	We will now check whether, except for the Budget Commission, there are other Commissions that do not have to meet. AIROLA (M5S). The 13th Commission and the 7th Commission are also involved. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We will check all the Commissions, and not just the 13th and 7th Commissions, even though I see President Marcucci here. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Taverna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u66	Mr President, I read some statements from October 2013. Minister Lorenzin argued very clearly that the National Health Service cannot bear the cuts in newspapers and recalled that health has been cut by 22 billion in recent years. Thus hospitals and drugs end up at risk. These were the statements of the current Minister. The Minister of Health also received the support of Pier Ferdinando Casini, who claimed to be at the side of Lorenzin to say no to the cuts: health care is a good that must be protected. The alarm was also launched by the President of the Health Commission of the Chamber, Pierpaolo Vargiu, Civic Choice then, for which new cuts to the spending of the sector risk to decree the end of the national health system Today, incredibly, instead, we are in the Chamber to discuss yet another clever one and so, in a decree-law that would have had to remedy the many financial problems of the local authorities, the Government puts a maxi amendment in order to bring its accounts back to the Italians. In fact, in the cauldron there is even a good health maneuver; the health pact becomes law and the axe of linear cuts - because of this is spoken of - falls for more than two billion euros on the National Health Service. I wonder: what happened? Are we all healed? Have we all become imaginary sick? Rather, I fear that the raising of the average age, the difficulty of paying pensions and the cuts in health care will make this government hope not so much that a healthy population is now free from having to resort to treatment, but rather citizens who, being unable to afford to cure themselves, quickly start to certain death, thus avoiding the collapse of the INPS coffers. Already today, according to CENSIS data, nine million Italians have renounced to care for economic reasons and, according to the ISTAT's 2015 annual report, the biggest responsible is the introduction of tickets and shares in the expenditure charged to citizens. Italy, together with Greece and Hungary, is the country of the OECD area where the poorest citizens encounter the greatest difficulty in affording medical expenses. So what's going on? We are on the eve of the new election campaign for the local elections 2016 and, to distract public opinion from the holly of trash and mafia that covers Rome, Renzi prepares the new propaganda, focused on cutting taxes, and, in perfect mafia style, the new political-electoral exchange will be guaranteed by linear cuts that, anticipated by the commissioner at the spending review Gutgeld, will range from 10 to 13 billion euros in three years. Lorenzin promises to reinvest part of the cuts in health care, but Gutgeld states that the aim of the maneuver is to ensure that public accounts are respected. We need Italians to stop listening to the shameful lies of a scandalous Premier, start thinking what their daily life has become and reflect on what it will become, if we do not stop the social butchery of which we are witnesses, day after day. Destroying workers' rights and dismantling public school, we move on to health care. It is done in a sneaky way, millando reinvestment and disavowing what has been declared. The priority area of intervention, according to the Government, concerns unnecessary prescriptions and visits. The government decides what are the superfluous ones. What will be, in fact, these prescriptions and unnecessary visits we will discover when from the Ministry will arrive the list of pathologies that provide the necessary analyses and for all the excluded cases you will have to pay, instead, from your own pocket. So maybe they will decide that in pregnancy it is no longer necessary to do the morphological ultrasound (sure, then if you want to be quiet you can always do it privately); or maybe we will find that, if you have a hyperthyroidism and you have to do the analyses for the FT3, the FT4, the TSH every three months, you can do it instead once a year: if you want to control, in the final, there is always the private health care. Or we'll find that a stay at most can last three days and then, if you go out with the stitches or the catheter, there will be mom helping you, or there will be the private clinic. Many of us wondered where the Premier took the money to support the Berlusconi electoral program. We found out today. Ladies and gentlemen, do you assume this responsibility? We are here today not talking about budgets, accounts and stability pacts, but about the health and life of Italians. You can't keep scraping the sanity barrel to cash in. The health of the population cannot be put at risk, especially the poorest. For the coordinator of the regional health councilors, Luca Coletto, the amendment to the decree-law local authorities blows up the universal health service. But - beware - a remarkable game of prestige emerges: two and a half billion away from health care and here 33 million appear for the Jubilee. Let the big binge begin! On the other hand, the interceptions said: the cow must be eaten in order to milk it. And so, while the investigation of Mafia Capitale tells us that in Rome the money is divided by administrators and bosses, the government puts a big juicy pile in the coffers of the Lazio Region. The 5 Star Movement has ready a plan of emergency sanitary for the Jubilee, while Zingaretti aims to cement Rome with runways landing for exile, to start millionaire hospital renovations and to buy 100 useless ambulances, as if they had to invade the Lanzichenecchi, no more, no less. Gentlemen, this is an appropriation of EUR 33 million. Dear pilgrims who will enter the national territory, do not thank the Government, because instead you will have to pay - there is a contribution of 50 euros - or make you pay, according to the current rates, for hospital assistance. I mean, you have to pay. It is appropriate to say: pray, that you may be healthy throughout your stay in Rome. Other than the year of the blessing, gentlemen: this will be the year of the Magna Magna in the Expo style. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] With regard to Expo, even there it seems that deadly epidemics must be avoided: in the maxi amendment there is a financing of millions of euros for prophylaxis for emergency health at Expo. On the other hand, newspapers are full of cases of pestilence at the Universal Exhibition in Milan. I saw only one epidemic at the Expo: it's called corruption, the only field of health care that had to be cut, considering that it costs us six billion a year. And he's the only one you've looked at well from touching. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u67	Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u68	Mr President, I too would like to thank the rapporteurs for the very immense and very difficult work they have done, as well as the entire Committee on Budgets, of course, for bringing a very complex measure to fruition. I would also like to thank my colleagues from the Health Commission who have spoken on the subject and all the critical looks that have been launched in the debate on this issue. In part, I must say that it is an inconvenience that we have shared, because we would certainly have preferred a decree-law rather than an amendment, which would have been more logical, and on which we could have given an opinion. I understand the problems which concern the structure of relations with Parliament. However, I believe that the issue of health must be more than ever shared. Unfortunately, this has been accompanied by an unexpected interview, of those unnecessary and probably harmful interviews, which today make the press headlines say that there are seven billion cuts in health care in this measure. That's not true. Let's start by saying that's not true. Italian citizens know that those seven billion are not present in this measure. In this measure there is what has been decided for some time by the Regions: on the basis of a request of the Government of a cut of four billion, the Regions have chosen to operate savings of approximately 2.3 billion in the field of health. We can argue, but this is the reality and we are talking about it. There are no seven billions, but I think there are some other elements. I would like to take the example of the savings in the three-year period in the DEF, which I would remind my colleagues of, we have amended, explicitly asking that the areas of health and social policy should not be affected. I believe that, respecting what has been said in the Health Pact and the DEF, we are settling down and we must settle down in the field of savings over the three years, as defined by those documents, and not by new, sudden, useless and harmful adventures. But what's the problem? I have the impression that we look too often at health care and the National Health Service with the rear-view mirror. We look at a health care that does not always correspond to the change in Italian society, the chronicity that has increased and the longevity that has increased also thanks to the quality of the National Health Service. And when we say that we need a different relationship between hospital and territory in favor of the latter, we are not saying that we have to close the hospitals and not even less we talk about "hospitals in red", terminology issued on the Republic last Sunday and of which someone will have to explain the meaning. We are not talking about this, because we are aware that the maneuver that needs to be done is very serious and must look to the future. We are faced with problems such as population ageing, chronicity, new drugs, which are life-saving and so-called innovative ones on which clarity must be made. First of all, we need to understand what we mean by innovation: is it therapeutic or market innovation? Secondly, we need to determine how these innovative medicines will be paid. By whom will they be paid and how will they be paid? Will they be given to everyone or not? I say this in a slogan: does our universalism consist in being all equal in the face of aspirin or in being all equal in the face of cancer? I think in the face of cancer. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In this is the universalism that we are talking about. We are not talking about a motionless universalism, like Moloch of the past, a useless egalitarianism, seen and considered that 33 percent of Italians pay out of their pockets medicines and benefits and that there is a dry decrease of people who go to cure themselves because of the crisis. We are going blindly, if we do not stop and look at innovation, towards those who want a health care done with the third leg and maybe with insurance or supplementary health, so who can pay and who can not arrange. We say: no! [[Applause from the PD Group]] TAVERNA (M5S). But how do you say no? DE BIASI (PD). This is contained in the health pact. This is contained in the measure. [[Comments of Senator Volpi]] And when it is said in the newspapers that the Regions are in revolt, I would like it to be clear that we are talking - I say this with great frankness and bitterness - about the maneuver of Veneto, Liguria and Lombardy that they intend to get health care on their behalf at the expense of the rest of Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is not acceptable, because we are a National Health Service and this must continue to be so, even with all the changes that need to be made. In this context, if the issue is innovation, I say that the political point is only one and, that is, if these savings are a conversion of spending that remains in the health sector or if it serves any other purpose. I'm ready to spend my time in a battle on this. I do not agree with the idea that health care is giving money to others, because health care has already suffered very heavy cuts and contributing to tax cuts would in fact deprive citizens, operators, doctors and professionals - because there are not only citizens, but there is also the whole world of health workers - of professional opportunities and care. [[Comments of Senator Taverna]] So this must be very clear and I am happy that the Minister has corrected the shot and today she has made it clear that every euro saved in health must remain in the same health care, putting in place what is not good. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Comments of Senator Taverna]] There are things that are not good, and we know that perfectly well. Proof of this is that the Regions, each on its own, are clearing up the accounts and see that the differences between the Regions in the provision of the National Health Service risk becoming too heavy an inequality that a progressive government can support. So let's be careful at this point, too. [[Applause from Senator Mattesini.]] Finally, there has been a great deal of talk about the subject of defensive medicine, and I would ask you not to exaggerate with the figures and not to randomly shoot billions out of billions, not least because Italian doctors are not murderers. I wish that was clear too. Italian doctors and Italian health professionals work with passion and competence. They're the best in the world and they steal them from us every time they go abroad. Let's think about it when we think about Italian health care. Should defensive medicine be fixed? Yes. Why is this a big waste? Yes. Do we need a law? Yes. Is Italy the only country in Europe that does not have a law on liability in the medical field? Yes. The House has also incardinated this provision and we will ask, in a climate of loyal collaboration, that its approval be speeded up to the maximum because it is urgent. As is the urgent need for recognition of the health professions, if we do not want to go to Europe with professional abuse. I say this to our Committee on Budgets, so that it can reveal the work that has been going on for a year on draft law No 1324. We're talking about propriety. The responsibility in the medical field is appropriateness. We have to decide what we mean by appropriateness. There will be an ad hoc decree on this and there must be a very clear list of what appropriateness means, to ensure that the citizen does not fall into the trap, not the doctor, but the "do-it-yourself" and self-prescription, of deciding to do some totally useless analyses and some very expensive TACs. And there are DRGs that, especially in this field, mean good remuneration, especially for the private sector. Let's be careful. Appropriateness is a value and also concerns the drug. Finally, in order not to look in the rearview mirror, there is only one way, to cooperate. I'm telling the government, Mrs. Minister, and the representatives of the government that I'm here today. Madam Minister, you are more involved in Parliament. It will find a Commission available, attentive and competent and a Parliament eager to understand and choose: on the pharmaceutical table that will open in September, on the appropriateness and its decree, on the reform of the AIFA, the Higher Institute of Health and Agenas and - why not - also on the spending review. We have some interesting things to suggest to the Commissioner. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations. Senator Taverna's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u71	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are coming to the conclusion of the general debate and, therefore, we will take the path of analysing the amendments or waiting for the maxi amendment on which the Government will ask for confidence. However, a little remains the subject we had touched on with the prejudices, to which we cared a lot. In view of the large and heterogeneous composition of this decree-law, I would like to ask with insistence, before everything is accelerated in one direction or another, for a clear statement by the Presidency on inadmissibility, in order to understand how we should behave. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Are you referring to the inadmissibility of further amendments or those you have already assessed? MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). To both of you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So yours is a reminder of the rigor on the verification of inadmissibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u74	TAVERNA (M5S). I return to the speech that Senator Airola has just made, to say that the Commission of which I am a member is convened at 2 p.m. Can the Presidency tell us what we have to do? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. With the exception of the Budget Commission, the other Commissions are not allowed to meet. TAVERNA (M5S). But you hadn't told us yet. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have prepared the verification and we will do one more. While the Budget Commission, when we do not vote in this House, is allowed to meet, the others cannot meet. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 78 of 2015, which contains urgent provisions on territorial authorities, under discussion, has undergone a major transformation and integration, in the course of the work in the Commission, with respect to the original text. However, the measure disregards the announcements made and disappoints the expectations of local authorities. Few, insufficient and completely inadequate are the answers that the Government wanted to give to the observations, suggestions, requests and needs of Municipalities and Provinces. There is no doubt that the last three governments - Monti, Letta, Renzi - have put in place a series of vexatory and persecutory measures against local authorities. We cannot understand why: local authorities are fundamental to the maintenance of the democratic system, they are the only door always open to which citizens can turn in the face of the increasingly marked and insurmountable difficulties of this moment. Of course, we share the need for everyone to participate in the fiscal consolidation effort, but the treatment of local authorities has been exaggerated. To the municipalities, from 2011 to 2015, 12.5 billion euros of transfers have been taken away. The contribution they are required to make is absolutely disproportionate, given that their share of public expenditure is less than 8%. Even worse treatment has been suffered by the Provinces, for which at first the road of the cancellation tout court was pursued, with Minister Filippo Patroni Griffi, in absolute contempt of the Constitution (behavior that was then censored by the Constitutional Court itself); then, careless of the defeat, the Government transformed them into bodies of second degree, with the reduction of the competences and removing the citizens the possibility to choose their representatives. Also the Provinces, in the three years 2013-2015, have suffered a strong reduction of the transfers (3.2 billion less), and are previewed ulterior cuts, for two billion in 2016 and three in 2017. Yet, they commit only one percent of public spending. The Provinces, in essence, have been reduced to paralysis and to the condition that they are unable to provide the services of competence that are fundamental to the communities. How can one think of repaying public finance by killing local authorities, who commit less than 10% of public spending (and if we want to add regional spending we don't even reach 30%)? The resources available to the Provinces are not even sufficient to pay staff costs, so much so that 33 of them did not achieve the objective of the Internal Stability Pact in 2014, with a total increase of 443 million, and the situation will deteriorate even in 2015. The Provinces are not able to carry out indispensable tasks such as the maintenance of provincial roads (133,000 kilometres completely abandoned, similar to those of Beirut, with the coat of asphalt full of holes, without the brazenness of the escarpments nor any remembrance of the waters), nor are they able to maintain the schools (5,000 school buildings used by the secondary schools). How do local authorities plan their activities if they are subject to a constant reduction in revenue, to significant delays in the delivery of regional and regional transfers and to repeated manoeuvres on the experimental rebalancing fund? And local authorities are forced to finance current expenditure using extraordinary revenue, to use the proceeds of wealth income, to apply administrative surpluses most of the time due to the high amount of active waste and to commit revenue related to urbanisation costs, which should be used at least for road maintenance. We were all expecting measures from the government to mitigate this disastrous condition of local government budgets, but you said no to everything: no to include school building outside the Stability Pact, no to set a certain and appropriate date for approving the forecast budgets of municipalities and provinces, at least for next year. But do you realize how many messed up? The balance sheets of the municipalities must be approved by 30 July. In fact, that of the metropolitan cities will be able to approve by September 30 and will only be a budget for the year 2015, because you are not able to do so for the years 2016 and 2017. We had asked to overcome the Internal Stability Pact for municipalities under 5,000 inhabitants to free them from costly red tape and allow them to use administrative surpluses and the few resources available to launch public works that would also help to give little support to the economy. We asked you to intervene with the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti in order to symbolically reduce by at least one point the interest rate on the loans being renegotiated against interest rates, which are now due to real usury, that the municipalities are forced to pay on the mortgages with which they have carried out public works, schools, kindergartens and sewers. The municipalities didn't play cards on the mortgage money! You think that the management of all the municipalities is like those of Rome and Naples, but it is not so. The measure contains rules on the payment of the debts of the public administration that were to be paid by the anniversary of St. Matthew last year and that, instead, are still there. There are still rules to regulate procurement and reconstruction in Abruzzo, but the earthquake occurred ten years ago. What did you think until today? We now come to the cut in health funds, which in the technical report is estimated at EUR 2.3 billion. Some agencies announce the presentation of a large amendment containing a health plan that should reduce expenditure by another EUR 2 billion, in addition to those already planned, to be allocated, according to the Commission, to tax cuts. An agency reports that Minister Lorenzin even talks about spending efficiency of ten billion euros, with the closure of some hospitals in addition to those that have already closed. Let us understand: what really is the situation of the cuts? Is it possible to think that ten billion of resources for the health service can be cut without debate and confrontation in the Commission and in this House? I'm really baffled. Finally, undersecretary Pizzetti, I stress that this measure is without cover. The health provisions, if they come into force in September, produce only a few hundred thousand euros of savings and not as anticipated. A measure without cover inevitably generates public debt. You are specializing in the generation of public debt. This is the best job you can do. To govern they need seriousness and a sense of responsibility. We must make it clear to the Italians that the country is on the verge of failure. You brought him to the brink of failure! You are not able to reduce taxes because your economic policy choices have massacred the economy and reduced GDP. The International Monetary Fund says it will take twenty years to return to pre-crisis GDP. And if GDP does not grow, there can be no reduction in taxes. Last week the Bank of Italy announced that, in May 2015, the public debt reached a new record - the beauty of 2.218 billion euros - and that the current Government, which has been operating for fifteen months, has increased the public debt by almost 100 billion euros (to be precise 98.76 billion), with an average increase of 6.58 billion per month. With the Letta Government, which lasted ten months, the public debt had increased by 31.38 billion euros, with an average of 3.14 billion monthly. If it gives me so much, if this progression is maintained, from here to next year you will increase the public debt by nine billion per month. Other than abolishing the TASI on the first house, on the land and on the agricultural sheds. On this path you will lead to failure not only Municipalities and Provinces, but the entire country! [[Applause from the Senator Council]] To conclude, I believe that you have missed another opportunity to solve problems and to deal with the problems of local authorities with method and responsibility, which are the backbone of this country. And you must take full responsibility for it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u76	Senator Del Barba is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, senators and fellow senators, with the conversion into law of this decree-law, we are going to complete a long process of continuous revisiting of the form of public administration and territorial authorities which, from more than a decade, characterizes - we could say inexorably - the relationship between central and peripheral administration, centered around the respect of the objectives of the Internal Stability Pact, differentiated from time to time by revisits of the rules of administration and management, in particular those on staff, the companies involved, the contribution to public finance by the territorial authorities, the modalities of expenditure, the possibilities of indebtedness. It is a relationship, that between the different levels of administration, that is characterized by complementarity and synergy in the provision of services to citizens, in the full awareness - conviction for those who speak to you - that, only with an efficient local administration and enabled to act clearly, the State can play to the full its role of support and growth of families and enterprises, in their fundamental and daily needs. It is a relationship that, with the definition of the pact "less resources for better services," is becoming ever more stringent, sometimes difficult, almost contractual and vindictive, but necessarily dialogue and continuous, pain the interruption of the necessary confidence by the citizens in the functioning of the State itself, of the administrators in their ability to fulfil the responsibilities that, with us, load each day, to implement that right mix of public and private action, which characterizes and must increasingly characterize the work of a modern and efficient State. It is a report put to the test by current events, which speaks to us more and more about corruption, inefficiency of services, disaffection to life in the civitas, exasperation of souls. We know that these are unbearable deformations and distortions of public life, unbearable parasitic manifestations, which soften the fabric of public administration, which remains healthy and robust, inhabited by passions and skills, which we well know, by virtuous Municipalities, courageous and competent administrators, experiments and innovations that accompany and sometimes precede the normative intervention, large cities and very small centers, that compete in the originality of the ideas with which to interpret this delicate task. It is a relationship that certainly knows its most delicate moment, starting from the very important law n. 56 of 2014, with which the courageous reorganization process is undertaken, initially wanted by all political forces, attacked by the opposition to the previous Government that implemented it, sometimes with arguments aimed at denouncing its little courage, at other times with diametrically opposed arguments, sometimes still with the most bleak attitude of boycott, boldly declared by important political personalities of the country. But not even in the face of these dangers, both exogenous and endogenous, does the courageous reformist inspiration of this majority fail and the desire to conclude a process that will see us strengthened in institutional and administrative structures. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Good stuff! DEL BARBA (PD). It is a report, finally, which finds its fundamental moment of programming in the law of stability - certainly - but which, due to the pervasiveness and ambition of the objectives, needs its continuous steps of verification and control also and especially in the Conferences State-Regions and State-Cities and Local Authorities, whose contents of the last understanding are transposed precisely within this measure. Parliament, the Senate of the Republic in particular, in this case did not witness this dialogue and its results, whose characteristics of necessity and urgency appear in all their clarity and evidence, in a simple spirit of verification and control, seeking rapid ratification. But it has made every effort, with the extraordinary work of the Commission budget in particular, with the amendments of all my fellow senators and senators, to gather up to the smallest detail the complex mechanism that is the public administration of the territorial authorities, so that any possibility of improvement, albeit small, should not be lost. It is difficult for a measure to cross so deeply the interests and passions of this House, as is the case in the case of local authorities, our territories of origin, all of which, only welded together in a strong common vision, return the figure of state intervention to the lives of citizens. It is natural, therefore, what we have witnessed: works that are often cross-cutting to political belongings, designed to completely unravel the individual problems examined by the measure and to find up to the last night available a response to the particular case, which, however, did not deny the goodness of the direction and the pervicacy of the overall project. All these efforts, always directly coordinated with our local administrators, suggest the level of tension up to which the reformative action in this area is being carried out, making it clear that probably a season of timely and ongoing interventions is going to end completely, to give way to large and more definitive changes, such as the local tax and the abandonment of the Stability Pact as we have known it. We, who for the most part have been or are still public administrators, feel these measures, this comprehensive and very long reform such as our reform, its efforts such as our efforts, its success or failure as our most important success or failure. Only a deep knowledge of the machine - as the professionals call it - can allow, as it is allowing, to complete this difficult, tiring phase, even of sacrifice, allowing us to finally inaugurate a new season that will revive the relationship of citizens with the public administration, after that too long this confidence has been dissipated by deplorable episodes that, at every level, have seriously undermined the credibility and functioning of the institutions more than ever could make a cut in expenditure or a limit to debt. This measure contains articles and amendments, which have been extensively illustrated by the rapporteurs and colleagues who have been before me, which are as many obstacles as they are offered to local administrators to finally complete a climb that has lasted too long, which too many different governments have interpreted in different ways and which now is time to conclude. The Senate has corrected and, especially for the vast areas and metropolitan cities, supported every need useful to approve the budgets at this extraordinary stage of their story, without however tempting in front of the direction of march to keep. In this difficult effort - and I conclude, President - within which we find an entire political and administrative community, which helps to define the new order of the state, we play a great deal of the social capital and cohesion that, more than financial capital, will be decisive for the economic recovery of the country and the guarantee of the rights and services of the citizens, true and unique recipients of our efforts. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u78	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Chiavaroli.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u79	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank all my colleagues for the debate that took place this morning in this House on this decree-law. We believe that this measure is really important because it gives answers to the local authorities - as we all know - affected by a very serious financial and budgetary crisis, because of which they risk not being able to provide services to the citizens anymore. And that's the biggest concern he gets. We believe that the decree-law gives the answers both for the municipalities and for the provinces and the metropolitan cities (on the merits, on the points raised will make his reply my colleague Zanoni). I will concentrate on the part of Articles 11 to follow and, therefore, in particular on the issues of the territories affected by the calamitous events and on the question of employment centres. Many colleagues have dealt with the calamitous events, clearly especially in relation to the territories they represent: Mr Lai for the situation in Sardinia, Ms Pezzopane and Mr Blund for the issue of Abruzzo, Mr D'Ambrosio Lettieri for the issues of Gargano; many colleagues have spoken on the issue of Veneto. (14.25) (Following CHIAVAROLI). We believe that in Articles 11, 12 and 13, and in the addition approved in the Commission with regard to the territory of Sardinia, important answers have been given that can allow reconstruction, following the events of calamitous events, to take place not only in a transparent way and so to avoid malavitous infiltrations of any kind, but also quickly and by supporting the productive activities of those territories. Not by chance, the decree-law focuses on the establishment of urban free zones to which substantial resources are allocated and it is to these that the urban free zone of Olbia has been added, to which will be allocated five million euros in 2016. I would also like to respond punctually to Senator Blundo, who has dealt with Article 11, and in particular the first paragraph concerning reconstruction in Abruzzo. I would like to point out that the debate in the Commission on this paragraph has been very constructive and has involved all the groups, including the Five Star Movement, whom I thank. In the budget committee, thanks to the contribution of all, we have written a first paragraph which really strengthens transparency in the reconstruction of the Eagle. I would remind my colleagues that the first paragraph of Article 11 refers to reconstruction contracts between private individuals; contracts which, according to this article, will be null and void if they do not contain certain requirements, including the SOA certification. In the Commission, we have for a long time examined how we can also monitor anti-mafia relations between individuals (anti-mafia certification, in relations between individuals, cannot be required). We have, therefore, included the self-certification of anti-mafia, which will allow prefectures to carry out checks on the practices of reconstruction between private individuals. I would like to stress this point: we have, therefore, included very important elements of transparency in the Commission. And I would also like to highlight the fact that, if these certifications are not present, contracts concluded also among private individuals will be null and void. I therefore believe that the Commission has made an excellent contribution on this subject, with the choral work to which all the Groups have contributed and on which they have engaged in a close confrontation, on the days of work of the Commission, both the Ministry of the Interior, which is the holder of the issues concerning anti-mafia, and the Ministry of the Economy, and in particular the Undersecretary De Micheli, who has the delegation for the reconstruction post earthquake in Abruzzo. I wanted to make this clear, because the work on this point in the Commission has been fruitful. I would also like to say a few words in response to Senator Petraglia who raised the problem of employment centres. Article 15 of this Decree-Law deals with active labour policies and establishes that there is an agreement between the State, the Regions and the Provinces to strengthen these services, and to this end substantial state resources are used: the Decree-Law provided for 70 million, but then after work in the Commission state resources were increased to 90 million. In the Commission we also wondered how these state funds could be fully used by the Provinces and we intervened with an amendment that allows the Provinces to use fixed-term employment contracts for active labour policies, and therefore for employment centres, until 31 December 2016, which is not allowed for other workers in the Provinces. We therefore believe that good work has also been done in the Commission on the question of employment centres by increasing the resources allocated and by introducing the rules which allow the Provinces to make full use of these resources. I believe that in relation to Articles 11 et seq. I have replied to all the considerations that have been made. In conclusion, with respect to Veneto, the Government has tabled an amendment with which it intended, that is, to respond to the requests of the populations affected by those events; it intended to give a first response as it was done for all calamitous events. Unfortunately, we - and we still see it today - are accustomed to a progressive response from the Government on calamitous situations, which takes note of what is happening in the territories. In the Commission, on this point, the debate, as on all other events, has been very heated, because the issue clearly affects Members of Parliament in relation to their own territories. And it was agreed in the Commission that Parliament should commit itself to some kind of framework legislation which concerns events in a way that, unfortunately, when the event happens, is already clear, and in the same way for all the affected territories, what are the measures that are granted to the municipalities, the populations and the enterprises present in that territory. I believe that I can conclude the reply for my part of the matter. I now entrust the remaining part to my colleague, Mrs Zanoni. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Mancuso]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u80	I call the rapporteur, Senator Zanoni.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u81	Mr President, I too thank all the senators who have spoken this morning for the great contribution they have made, even in a calm way, because they have certainly helped to create the conditions for subsequent interventions. We listened to them with great interest and almost all of them entered into the matter. I also thank you for the kind words that many have dedicated to me and to Senator Chiavaroli, as reporters, putting the emphasis on the work done: someone will share it more, someone less, but I believe that the great work done is thanks to everyone. I am trying to give some additional information on the issues that have been addressed. More action has been taken to address the problem of the Stability Pact and its overcoming. I fully agree with some of the elements that have been identified, partly because I have always considered local authorities to be our operational arm on the ground and I believe that they should be seen as a flywheel of the economy. Therefore, unlocking the possibility of making investments by the municipalities is fundamental to relaunch our economy with interventions, even small and micro, throughout the national territory. From this point of view, I can only be in favour of it, but I would like to point out that since 2016 the Stability Pact will still be exceeded by the rules of budgetary harmonisation, as we have partly pointed out in the introductory report: the harmonisation of budgets has brought great news in the area of accounting and will lead to the automatic and technical overcoming of the Stability Pact as we have been accustomed to considering it all these years. We can really see it as a great reform. Another issue that has been raised several times is that of the small municipalities, on which I think at least a couple of interventions have been made which are certainly relevant and which give a sense of attention to the small municipalities. The first is the release of the 29 million remaining from the distribution of the Municipal Solidarity Fund 2014, which the ANCI itself requested to be redistributed among the municipalities under 60,000 inhabitants. In fact, according to the data published yesterday by the ANCI, there are 2,400 municipalities under the 10,000 inhabitants that will benefit from the redistribution of the mentioned 29 million. These resources will be given to those most penalized in the part, i.e. the municipalities that have suffered a greater penalty than 3%. Another aspect highlighted in many speeches is the single purchasing power stations, for which there is an imminent deadline on 30 September, which applies to municipalities which had a derogation for purchases up to EUR 40,000. In the case of small municipalities, the request to be equal to the larger municipalities was made in January, February and March. We are now very close to the 30 September threshold, which will apply to everyone. From this point the Government has undertaken - it has been put to the acts of the Commission - to ensure that, if from 30 September there is an extension for the large municipalities, the latter will be extended to all municipalities, if anything introducing for the smaller municipalities a threshold of 20,000 euros in view of the different budget size of the smaller local authorities. One more reference to Article 5 on the provincial police, because a lot of the senators have referred to it. Indeed, on this article, the amendments tabled were very many, from the most trivial, with the request to delete the article entirely, to those which had the most articulated and disparate solutions. The proposal of Article 5 has tried to transpose the range of possibilities, compatible, however, with the work of reordering the functions that the Regions are called to carry out. Therefore, starting from the reorganization of the functions of the Provinces and giving the possibility to the Regions to take charge of this function, in the former Provinces, now a vast area, must be identified, within the list of persons who must remain in the structure, also those of the current provincial police; only the residual part can go, in a voluntary way, in the Municipalities. I would like to stress one aspect that has not been repeated and that I did not remember to report in the initial report: again in this article, the problem of local seasonal police has been resolved. It was a strong demand from all the agencies that, during certain periods of the year, have to manage thousands and thousands more people on their territory. Local authorities have therefore been given the opportunity to hire people on a fixed-term basis as local police officers to solve this problem. This is how I come to talk about the problem of metropolitan cities and large-area entities. In this regard, as some have mentioned, it seems to me right to point out that the Government has done a great deal of work. In fact, on this subject, objectively, the decree-law presented a kind of hole: there were norms that concerned the Regions, norms that concerned the Municipalities, but on the agencies of Large Area had not intervened. I have to say that, in agreement with the Government, all this has really been remedied, with a whole series of interventions, including those related to the metropolitan cities and provinces that, having crossed the Pact for 2014, had the problem of a series of fixed-term jobs that could not be reconfirmed: instead, we have introduced with norm the possibility of a reconfirmation until the end of the year. There have been a lot of measures on the Provinces. These have allowed and allow the preparation of forecast budgets in a useful way to arrive until the end of the year, guaranteeing the fundamental services, which we remember being the management of provincial roads and the maintenance of high schools in the first place. Mr President, I start with the general conclusion, quoting 'Il Sole 24 ore' on Monday 29 June (I have the duty to keep the pieces of the newspaper): From staff to purchases, local government holes. Well, a month later, we can say that almost all the holes have been filled. From this point of view it is perhaps true that the measure maintains a certain heterogeneity, but to those who accused us of this - in particular I am referring to the intervention of a Senator of the League - I would like to remind you that on the list you made did not include, for example, the important amendment adopted on the park of Monza. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u82	He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the work that has been done in the Commission in relation to the decree-law presented by the Government has certainly been valuable, because it has helped to make some important changes to the initial text, thanks to the work of the Groups - especially the majority ones - and to the fundamental contribution of the rapporteurs, in the commitment they have made to arrive, then, at the presentation of the final text. Surely the text that we are voting on today in this House has some very important measures for local authorities. In this debate, this morning too, there has been a concern about the cuts in health care, an issue which, moreover, has been the subject of debate not only in this House but also in the public. News in the press has often been reported not corresponding to the text presented by the Government and voted in the Commission [[Comments from the M5S Group]] , since the cuts that have been planned for health and which have been incorporated in the text presented by the Government and voted in the Commission (then submitted to the senators), are those agreed with the Regions at the Unified State-Regions Conference at the last session of 2 July, with the unanimity of the Regions present. It is therefore an agreement that has concerned both the Regions and the relationship of loyal collaboration with the State, redefining and remodulating with these modalities the contribution to the total cuts to the public expenditure that has been asked also from the Regions, as well as from the Ministries and other local authorities. In the decree-law there are however measures particularly important and expected by many municipalities in Italy: these are specific measures especially for the realities affected by calamitous events. I believe that the resources that are made available here, starting with the 205 million for Lombardy (for the municipalities affected by the events of 2012) up to the ad hoc measures for the Emilia-Romagna Region (especially for the municipalities and the areas affected by the earthquake, both through some forms of exemption from the payment of taxes, and through the identification of urban free zones), are certainly elements that go in support of the small and medium-sized enterprises and, of course, of the citizens of those Regions. The same applies to the provision of resources for the establishment in Sardinia of certain urban free zones, through a more precise identification of the perimeter of the municipalities involved. I believe that these measures are particularly important and are in the sensitivities of all; they are also the transposition of the request received by the municipalities of Veneto affected by a tornado in recent weeks, which have called for greater freedom from the constraints of the Stability Pact, precisely in order to be able to use the resources already available. In this direction goes this first measure of the Government, which not only makes available immediately liquid resources, but also allows the municipalities to have greater margins of freedom than the constraints established by the Pact. Financial spaces in relation to the Pact are also granted to the other municipalities, therefore to all the local authorities of Italy, regardless of their specific characteristics, where they serve to invest and spend in certain specific sectors, such as asbestos reclamation, school construction or investments to which local authorities have to share in order to be able to make full use of European resources. Another particularly significant and expected measure concerns the recruitment of 2,500 people in the Forces of Order and 250 Fire Departments. These recruitments are planned precisely to deal, in the imminence of the jubilee (which will concern Rome, but not only Rome), with issues of public order and security that will arise in the coming months. I believe that this is also a measure announced by the Government and awaited by an entire sector. There are many measures planned to support local authorities and also, in some way, large-scale authorities, at a time of transition and transformation for these realities. Despite having foreseen a very precise and punctual rule about the obligation, for the Regions that have not yet done so, to identify the fundamental functions and to give full fulfillment and full execution to the law Delrio by October 31 of this year, however, in this intermediate phase, resources have been granted in order to be able to face the upcoming expenses of the next months, linked to the resumption of the school year or to the functions that are still carried out medium time, especially in those Regions that have not yet given execution to the aforementioned law Delrio. This is precisely why, because of the work carried out in the Commission and the importance of the measures taken in the measure, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment that I am going to table. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] , entirely replacing the single article of draft law No. 1977, which incorporates the amendments proposed by the Commission and further integration. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u84	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government. In accordance with practice, I transmit the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission because, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it informs the Assembly of the financial coverage profiles. The Conference of Leaders is convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 2.50 p.m. and resumed at 3.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u85	The Conference of Leaders organised the discussions on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the text of the Decree-Law on financial measures for local authorities. For the discussion on confidence, which will begin once the opinion of the Budget Committee on financial coverage profiles has been obtained, it has been allocated one hour and 25 minutes on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The explanations of vote will follow. The call will start between 6.30 p.m. and 7 p.m. The Conference of the Leaders also established that, at tomorrow's single sitting, once the report of the Assembly of Elections and Immunities concerning Senator Azzollini has been examined, the Senate's accounts and internal accounts will be discussed. The deadline for the submission of agendas is set at 8 p.m. this evening. I therefore suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 3.32 p.m. and resumed at 4 p.m.) Since the work of the Budget Committee has not yet been completed, I will suspend the sitting again until 16.20 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16:01 and resumed at 16:21.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u86	I give the floor to the Vice President of the 5th Commission, Senator Sangalli, to report to the Assembly on the financial coverage profiles of amendment 1,700.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u87	(PD). Mr President, as you know, the imposition of the matter of trust results in an analysis by the Budget Commission of the relevant major amendment and a subsequent debate in the same, no vote and a short report which your President makes to the House on the debate held there. I say this because, as I happened to do the same about the law of stability and as I reported a number of considerations, even critical, that were done at that time, I have a duty to report on the debate that took place in the Commission and not to dwell on the expression of my personal opinions. However, I would like to stress, contrary to what I did at the time of the Stability Act, that today we are voting for confidence in a major amendment which is basically the text of the draft law voted by the Commission. We have concluded the Commission's work with the mandate to the rapporteurs, and we have handed over a very amended text by Parliament, on which Parliament has carried out an effective amending work, so much so that more than 80 amendments have been accepted in the Commission, and this is the text that is being submitted to the question of trust today, with some variations that I must point out. Some of these variations are honestly marginal, of clarification; others to prevent them from putting into the regulations of excessively precise specifications, that it would be wrong to be put into a law. This is the case, for example, of the recruitments in the police forces, for which some details were foreseen, with numbers written in the text, obviously very limited, for South Tyrol, as a result of bilingualism (tot bilingual policemen and tot bilingual policemen): these numbers have been removed, because it is not fair for a law to specify such a numbering. Similarly, a rule was removed which provided for exemption from VAT on vocational training, which had been voted on by the Commission, but which, following a later analysis by both the technical offices and the Government, was found not to be discovered - because it is not, from the budgetary point of view - but that it was not consistent with the orientation of the Community directives, so it was likely to incur European sanctions; for this reason it was set aside. Then there was an extension to the comuni commissariati, particularly for the issue of Casal di Principe, of the use of resources, which is postponed from twelve to eighteen months, which is the time period of the commissariat, otherwise the municipalities would simply have been closed with obvious social reflections. It has also been added, with article 16-c, a rule concerning the stabilization of resources for precarious workers of municipalities of the Calabria Region, which does not conflict with Article 81 of the Constitution, because the resources are in possession of the Region itself, and which provides that these assumptions are within the limits of compliance with the Stability Pact, the times, methods and means of payment by the Region and that there are available resources. There have been critical remarks in the debate in the Commission on this rule, which underline the risk that, while there are resources and while intervening with resources given, compliance with these parameters in that context may not be guaranteed. However, I must say that, from the Commission's point of view, there is no problem with Article 81 of this rule. Instead, article 7, paragraph 9-c, is related to the reassignment of the spending economies that are made for the construction of a road linking with the Expo of Milan, within the project of the Expo, which is done in two sections of intervention, rather than in one, providing in this way also possible economies. The rule, which has been much discussed and on which we then asked for an interpretation even more precise to the Government, actually automatically redistributes to the Municipality the economies that are made. It is a precedent that has already existed, but it is quite unusual for the economies achieved to be automatically returned to a territorial administration without a specific mechanism (which could have been a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers or another allocation mechanism). Since this is not there, we asked for clarification. However, we do not raise questions under Article 81 of the Constitution, because in this case too, we are faced with the coverage of the paragraph and the article. For all the rest, we are faced with a large-scale amendment by the Government which fully takes up the debate and the deliberations of the Budget Committee. On each article and paragraph we have the ex Article 81 certification of the Constitution by the General Accounting of the State and the consequent boiling. That is what I had to report on and, with this, the work of the Budget Commission ends. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Azzollini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u88	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it never disproves you: yet another decree-cauldron law, yet another confidence, yet another sòla. As they say in Rome: never a joy! You've been trying to make doctors accountants for fifteen years, with all due respect for the category. Speak of effectiveness and efficiency without having any idea of the meaning of words and you want to submit science, values and rights to the arid calculation of numbers. If white shirts spend 13 billion a year on defensive medicine, it is only the fault of a crawling and corrupt political system, which has entered the wards of hospitals and offices scattered in the territorial districts. This is not my statement, but everyday judicial reporting. In order to make an efficient system, which is certainly not inefficient (let's spend a fiftieth compared to civil countries), we need to return to the responsibility of roles, to the diversification of responsibilities and to the mere meritorious criterion: enough children, brothers, grandchildren, friends and friends of illustrious names, who inappropriately heat armchairs within our Health Service. Greater efficiency - I am repetitive in this - is achieved by digitization. Do you know what happened in my city - Fabriano - just last week? Early hospitalization of a loved one with initial intracranial hemorrhage; a one-week monitoring not to save a person and not to give a precise diagnosis. The icing on the cake was however the report of the TAC: my gentlemen, the diskette with the TAC image was transported from Fabriano hospital to Ancona by taxi! I repeat: a taxi, round trip, for a diskette! But what do we want to talk about? Of one or two billion that we would save with the computerized folder? Of the 3/5 billion that you would have with the open source? For twelve years we have been talking about a single purchasing centre with a uniform price list from Valle d'Aosta to Lampedusa. However, nothing has yet been seen, let alone the 2/7 billion we would save. The list of savings would be long, but already so we are about EUR 14 billion. We disagree and allow ourselves to recapture, sanction and criticize doctors who have at least eleven to twelve years of study active and give the buttons of command to the "crazy" emeritus (allow me the vernacular term), many seated even among these scranni, as can be deduced from the few ideas, confused and contradictory, that have emerged in an attempt to endorse this provision. These "cocks" are the first inappropriateness to be removed. In order to avoid unnecessary examinations, the patient should first be examined. For a good visit it takes time, but if four visits per hour are listed in the hospital, it is clear that, by removing the changes, red tape and overdosing, in less than ten minutes a visit simply is not done. It is clear where you are going to go: the confidence on this is given to banks, insurance policies and a private health service which must be replaced by a public health service. In fact, continuing this way, a citizen, if he does not want to be the victim of a primordial natural selection, will have to make sure: 500-1,000 euros of policy per year, which, multiplied by 60 million Italians, makes the considerable amount of 30-60 billion per year. It's a nice business, that's all. With salaries equal to a quarter of those of European colleagues and with more responsibility and stress and less personal and professional dignity, in ten years, as a very nice Neapolitan primary said, in the hospital you won't even find someone who affects you. That is what I wanted to say, and I will stop here, because it seems to me that the other things have already been well said by my colleagues. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u90	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u91	Mr President, I would like to focus on two points, the first of which concerns matters relating to small municipalities, on which requests have been made by almost all the groups and which have met with the government's niet. Amendments had been tabled; at other times I had tabled amendments almost alone, this time all the groups - I think everyone - have tabled something in this respect, that is, the notorious single central purchasing body. It has been discovered that the small municipalities are the real problem of this country and in general that the point is not what is spent but how many spend: the more the expenditure is centralized - this is the stroke of genius of these years - and the better. That is, it is not important if they spend more less, the important thing is that they spend more than a few, because there are too many centres of expenditure - it is repeated with great sycumera in parliamentary and television debates. I think the problem is that there is too much shopping, not that there are shopping centres. If the state thinks it knows what a municipality needs of 10,000, 5,000 or 200 inhabitants, then I think that's the problem and that's where the issues are determined. That is why all the groups had tabled amendments to this effect and did not do so as a secondary character, but just the members of the Budget Committee or, in any case, prominent members of each Group. The Government has opposed a refusal, therefore in the small municipalities, when a small expense is to be made, it is necessary to wait for the union of the Municipalities to be brought together (as long as it has been done), the authorization, the meeting, the council, it is necessary to come and go. Hypocritically in the laws it is written that of course everything must happen without further burdens for the State; however, leaving aside the mayor, the councilmen and the advisers who work worse than for free, in the sense that they put us of theirs (unless they find that that is another of the terrible expenses that kills the State), the very few employees, without taking an extra cent, must go and come from the seat of the union of the Municipalities, go to the City to speak with that and with that other, without burdens for the State. This means that, while they are engaged in those activities, they cannot do what would be their task, that is to serve the citizens by rendering them a service and not by rendering an idolatrous service to bureaucracy. Secondly, there was a limit on this issue, i.e. up to EUR 40,000 in expenditure, without the single purchasing power station, but provided that the municipalities had at least 10,000 inhabitants. We do not understand the logic of this arrangement: if a small expenditure is small, if it is large it is large and does not have to do with the proportion. What is normal, that all the Groups have proposed, was to remove this limit of 10,000 inhabitants. If I spend 30,000 or 5,000 euros, I wonder what changes for the State if I am a small or large municipality. If anything, it had to be the opposite, that is, for the small municipalities there had to be an eye for autonomy. All the Groups have put forward proposals to this effect - a sign that everyone was in agreement with this - but the Government has opposed it and the majority has bowed. Another point I would like to address is the obligation to exercise the functions associated with them, which in the closed office of a Ministry is a sacred thing and also in the reality of several municipalities is an excellent thing, in fact many have done so. However, if they do not, perhaps it is because the municipality with which you should associate to carry out certain functions together, it is so neighbouring, but in the offices of the Ministries and the Government you forget that there are also mountains in our country, so maybe two municipalities border through a mule track where only with a remarkable training you can go and come, employing seven or eight hours or having to travel 50 kilometers on the road. However, the most serious point is the centralisation of expenditure. The State states that in the area of health, contracts have been made with so many suppliers, from the large pharmaceutical company to the food merchant who provides food to hospitals; these subjects are told something like: Did we agree to 100? Since I am the State, and therefore I do not respect the law and the covenants, it is no longer 100 but it is 95. Don't we like 95? I'll cancel a contract that's maybe three, five, ten years old. Private individuals have made investments, hired people, and the State opposes a refusal. This is the clear representation of what Saint Augustine makes the leader of pirates say: so much you, Julius Caesar, and I, leader of pirates, do the same job, we use violence to make citizens do what we want. When the state behaves like a pirate, like a violent one, then it loses its legitimacy. This is the fight against the state, so that the foundations of the state are undermined and, unfortunately, this law is being done, with an amendment that Parliament has not been able to debate and that all the groups, although not appreciating, will vote, bowing to the will of an executive who, in turn, bends to interests that it cannot report. [[Applause from Senator Razzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u92	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u93	Mr President, I would also like to comment on just a few points of this measure, which, because of its size, deserves further consideration. My analysis will focus mainly on the first articles relating to local authorities, with particular reference to Article 1, on the re-determination of the objectives of the Internal Stability Pact of Municipalities, Provinces and Metropolitan Cities and Article 8, on the payment of the Fund to ensure liquidity for certain, liquid and payable payments of debts. These rules have a significant impact on the daily life of all municipalities, in particular - I leave out the Provinces, on which we should discuss even more - going to affect choices that the Municipalities have to make precisely these days. Many municipalities, which are about to make budgets and which in these days are approving tariffs according to previous government regulations, are faced with very painful choices. The majority of the municipalities, which are not lucky enough to be tourist, will have to orient themselves in fact between retouching for the umpteenth time the IMU on the houses other than the main house or - if they still have the possibility - exercise on the increase of the additional IRPEF. The municipalities that have the advantage of being tourist will be able to affect the tourist tax: many municipalities, just in order not to burden their citizens further with the additional IRPEF, are doing so in the middle of the season, if you consider that summer is however a tourist season, both for the cities of art and for the coastal municipalities or mountain. In many municipalities the beginning will be from 1 August; in others from 1 September. As you will recall, it also happened in Rome last year. I believe that precisely this pre-pochism, this action of the Government so uncertain, without a precise line of behavior and without predetermined objectives, implies for the Municipalities the obligation to make these painful and hateful choices towards those - and I think of the speech of the tax of residence - still produces something for their territory, ensures jobs and often takes care to offer the best welcome to tourists. However, if the tax lever were also addressed on the IMU for homes other than those for residential use - I am thinking of the premises for commercial use, handicrafts, the second houses intended for professional studies and the like - it would still affect those who produce and the most important fabric of society. The rules that we find in the decree-law do not in any way improve the viability of the Municipalities, indeed, we have arrived at exaggerations for which there are virtuous Municipalities, which have no problems to guarantee the balance of the budget, which must guarantee the participation in a solidarity fund to be allocated to less virtuous Municipalities, which perhaps have not fully used the tax lever and which may also make "the beautiful face" in front of their citizens precisely because the Government has not given objective and precise guidelines. If we then refer this speech to the Provinces, we should resume and retrace a series of considerations already made: these entities, abandoned to themselves, from law n. 56 of 2014 onwards sail on sight, not even in a sea not safe, but directly in a stagnant swamp and the finish line is very far. The winter will come and the radiators will not turn on and, in difficult times such as the winter ones, during the rainy season, who knows who will be able to guarantee safety in the streets, since the Provinces have no more money. I also think of important foundations. We had tabled an amendment concerning the concert and orchestral foundations, which were very often issued by the Provinces, with people of proven personality who at fifty years may have to review their destiny and their work choices. I would like to make another comment on the Expo amendment - and I shall conclude, Mr President - which concerns all the police forces: Carabinieri, Guardia di Finanza, Polizia di Stato, but not the prison police, who, out of absurdity, are seeing a new ban issued these days. Well, there are still winners - not eligible, but winners of the rate b) - of the 2012 competition who do not know what will have to do and who will be obliged to resort to the TAR in the face of the ban next issue. One last point, Mr President: what is the point of introducing the prescriber's case, of imposing only financial obligations with regard to the medical expenses incurred by the doctor who prescribes, and not dealing instead with a very important issue, such as the medical fault, which often leads to those excessive expenses for diagnostics? I think that the government is suffering from strabism and looks only at the financial aspect and rather does not deal with an important concept, such as the need to solve the problem of defensive medicine and medical guilt. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u94	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u95	Mr President, the Government once again calls for confidence in a measure that contains many negative interventions, because it does not respect one of the fundamental principles that should be of an efficient Government, namely to penalise those who mismanage public resources and to help those who have a virtuous management of them. It calls for confidence in a measure that introduces unacceptable measures, such as health cuts. We first attended a lesson of the Democratic Party in which we wanted to make believe that the cuts made by the Government to health with the law of stability last year and with this provision are a responsibility of the Regions. That is why such an intervention is so far out of reality that it is unacceptable. It was this majority that voted on the law of stability and voted on the cuts to Regions and Municipalities. It was and will be this majority that today voted on the cuts to health, making it even more difficult for the regions, those working in the hospital sector, to give effective and adequate care to our citizens. This point is sufficient, as far as we are concerned, to give a negative judgment on the whole measure. But there is something worse, that makes even more anger, because within this measure there are interventions of the most disparate. There are 33 million to be allocated for the Jubilee of Rome; there are tens of millions to regularize socially useful workers in Calabria; they are, according to the undersecretary Pharaoh - one of the leading men of your Government - 500 million for the holes of the poor management of the public resources of the Region of Sicily, on an alleged total hole of even 6 billion or figures linked to inexigible matches, as has been stated by Pharaoh himself, but for the tragedies, for the dramatic events that hit the citizens of our territory there is not the resources. I would like to remind the Government and the Undersecretary Beretta, that from the information available to me turns out to be Venetian, at least from the identity card, that for what happened on July 8 in Veneto, a tornado that has razed entire homes forcing hundreds of citizens out of the house, the Government has allocated the beauty of 2 million. CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Shame! TOSATO (LN-Aut). It is an unacceptable shame that a government, which considers itself such, in the face of emergencies, in the face of the difficulties of its citizens is not able to find sufficient resources to give adequate answers to the dramas that affect our people. This is the behaviour of the Renzi Government: it finds resources to reward those who mismanage public affairs and leaves in the middle of a street citizens who see destroyed the fruit of the sacrifices of a whole life. At this moment in Veneto the government is doing only two things. The first is to collect taxes, which he is used to doing every year; the other, through the prefects, is to find accommodation for illegals and refugees. To those hundreds of Venetians to whom the house has been destroyed and who are currently staying with relatives or in the hotel, paying of course from their own pocket the accommodation, the Renzi Government and you who represent it, including all the elected Venetian MPs who in this debate have kept silent compared to what happened, you have not been able to find the necessary resources to give an adequate response to what happened. There are currently estimated damages of EUR 90 million. The government has now allocated virtually nothing (the famous 2 million) but has loosened the Stability Pact between the municipalities of 7 and a half million. Obviously these resources are not enough to put those territories back in order and certainly cannot be used for the needs of individuals who have lost everything: home, machine, work, with serious damage also for the productive activities. Therefore, it is an absolutely inadequate, inadequate, absolutely shameful answer. Faced with a large amendment by the Government that responds to the most disparate events, but that does not respond to this emergency, because the Government will go on holiday in the next few days - how Parliament will go there because 7 August will be the last day on which parliamentary activities will take place, at least in the Senate - it is clear to everyone that for the entire summer until the end of the year this Parliament will no longer be able to give answers to what is happening. This was the last useful opportunity and you wasted it, you didn't find the resources needed to give answers. It is strange to talk about these issues in this House, because they now appear to be sterile and useless debates. We have tabled amending proposals which have not been accepted in the Commission, which cannot be discussed in this House, which have not found room in the Government's maxi amendment. We are talking about tragic events involving our fellow citizens who find the total indifference of the Government and this House. Sometimes you have an identity crisis. We wonder if this is normal: be indifferent to these tragedies or raise your voice and protest for what is happening, no matter how much this Government fails or does not have the will to do. Well, we do not want to resign ourselves to the fact that this is normal; that Parliament's normality is that it fails to respond to real needs; that normality is that of a House that has to deal with the reform of the RAI. We'll never get used to this normal. For us, normality should be that of a House that takes to heart the human events of people who have lost everything and finds the resources to give them answers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We are very keen on this issue because we do not want a resigned silence to be interpreted as complicity. We do not want to be complicit in a Government that is indifferent to what is happening in our parts, but also in many other territories of the country. We do not want to accept that, once elected in this Parliament, we must carry out an activity that is almost a rite in which everyone says his reasons, carries out his demands, after which there are no answers that the territory expects. This is what happens all too often in this House: everyone carries out his reasons, expresses them with more or less just reasons, but then, in practice, the results do not come, because there is a government that is taken from other things that are less important and important and that is neglecting the real life of the citizens. There is a total meltdown between reality and what is happening in this House. Well, we want to denounce this situation and make it clear that we do not recognize ourselves in this way of making politics and governing our country. We consider it humiliating for the citizens of Veneto to know that this government finds 500 million for the fiscal holes of Sicily and gives a begging of 2 million to those who have lost everything. We do not accept this kind of attitude and we will be heard in our territories and in this House whenever we are given the opportunity. We are still waiting for answers, which have not yet arrived, but which are due to the people who are suffering. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] I finish my speech because I realize that these words seem to be useless, but I believe it is our duty to represent the citizens who have no voice at the moment, who are not protesting in the street, who are suffering in silence, who in recent days have tried to get up, to settle their homes, where possible, but who expected much more from the State and the Government, who are totally absent. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u96	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u97	Mr President, I shall not dwell on the whole law, which is clearly omnibus: here we have taken the habit of decree-laws and delegations to do a bit of what we want. The most curious part is certainly that of our Premier, who first promises to pay all the companies by September last year, then, spent almost a year, in this decree-law takes 2 billion and takes them from one side to the other; then takes 500 million to give them to the municipalities (which we hope will use them for deductions on the TASI for the less well-off), always from the same fund of payments to the enterprises. It is impressive how you manage to reverse the promises made medialy. I would like to tell the Undersecretary Baretta to be spokesperson on my behalf and ask Prime Minister Renzi to go and talk on television on unified networks to tell the Italians that in three months he will have to cut 2.3 billion euros to health care because so far it has gone down, while he would have had to start doing it starting from January if he wanted to do a punctual and surgical operation, as the health of the Italians would have deserved. Now you demand that all contracts, both medical devices and goods and services, be resumed to review them all, trusting that there is no litigation, to save EUR 2.3 billion? But do you really want to make fun of 60 million Italians in this way? Let me give you an example. My father, who is invalid after a fall from a horse, resides in the Puglia Region and in August he will no longer be able to do rehabilitation. I informed him that, together with the other patients (now from February to March) he will no longer have the right to rehabilitation. You also tell Minister Lorenzin that it is useless to play with semantics: as you did with the amendment on the Expo, in which you have redestined the savings of the race to the City of Milan, in this law you would have to redefine the savings of spending on research, efficiency and new services to health and not to the budget of the State, in order to go to heal the holes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You know that, Undersecretary; you have to tell the Italians that these 2.3 billion were already foreseen in the law of stability to cover the 80 euros, those damned 80 euros of the electoral tip, with which you handcuffed hands and feet! If you were courageous and authoritative and you broke the European parameters and treaties then you would do the good of the country; but if you wanted to stay inside the rules and rules, you could not give 80 euros to the Italians, to those few Italians to whom you gave them. You know it well: now we are in these conditions and, like thieves, who enter the house of the elderly at night by taking away from them what is more precious, you have waited on July 28, putting confidence on a trap so fierce precisely on the health of the Italians. This is the most indecent aspect. The most indecent aspect is that there is no longer even a minority appearance of the Democratic Party, which objects and helps the opposition in this. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In fact, with the vote of confidence they must remain adorned, they are afraid to go to the elections; instead, measure yourselves with the vote and in the discussions, measure yourselves in the squares with the Italians and tell them what you are doing and what still touches them! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u98	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u99	Mr President, we have already expressed a negative opinion on this measure, through the speeches of myself and my fellow Members, Mr Piccoli and Mr Scilipoti Isgrò, in the general debate and with Mr Malan's speech just now; a timely and highly negative opinion. This is a measure that disappoints the expectations of local authorities, municipalities and provinces. The mayors expected from the government some support, some solution, some help to cope with a really difficult situation. Families turn to the municipality to get answers to their needs, often the most essential for survival, such as paying for water, electricity and gas, or even paying for health care and medicines. Sometimes, in fact, all the members of a family find themselves out of work. The municipalities are, among other things, in difficulty in achieving the revenue provided for in the budget, because families have difficulties in paying what they have to pay for their services. The Presidents of the Provinces, unable to maintain roads and school buildings, even bear the operating costs of those 5,000 school buildings frequented by high school students, are also having difficulty protecting the environment. No opening for the metropolitan cities: two months of extension is expected to prepare the 2015 budget and the exemption from the three-year budget; but it is only a few months of oxygen, because in December, in five months, they will be in the same condition, with the budgets to be made and perhaps in a hurry before leaving. Deep dissatisfaction for the staff of the Municipal Police, who sees a rather uncertain future, between many possibilities and no certainty. No solution for employment centres, with costs of EUR 600 million, of which 230 for staff (about 6,500 people), with a refreshment to the Provinces completely insufficient, of EUR 90 million, after an amendment brought them to this level from the 70 planned. Then there are the cuts in health care, for 10 billion in five years, with the closure of other hospitals - says the Minister - in addition to those that have already closed. In essence, it is a measure that disregards the announcements made in recent months and disappoints the expectations of the local authorities, destined progressively and inexorably to the generalized and inevitable default. Public finance cannot be restored by massacres of local authorities, which alone consume less than 10% of public expenditure. For these reasons, our vote can only be absolutely and firmly opposed. [[Applause from Senator De Siano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u100	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u103	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CRI). Mr President, we do not like this measure. We contest its approach, we contest its contents, we contest its method. We will not vote for this measure. We cannot support the use of urgent decrees, because only a small part of the measures are indeed urgent. I would have expected - it is not a joke - that the Government in the maxi amendment would also propose a change in the title of this measure, bringing back to the title the vastness and the breadth of a measure which, on the other hand, in the title remains limited to interventions in the area of local and territorial authorities. It is a bluff and I would say that the bluff is recorded since the title of the measure. We also cannot share the unevenness of the text, which lacks the requirements of affinity and homogeneity in terms of its aims and objectives. On the other hand, the text shines by lack of clarity, by incompleteness, I would also say by factiosity, because I realize that in articulo mortis the Government, in order to maintain a minimum of social peace within the majority groups, has had to generously give some kind smiles of complacent adherence to the requests of the Groups that support this government by now weak and wavering. We cannot agree that the rules of order are approved by a decree-law: it is an offense to the parliamentary technique and to the history of Parliament. What is it worth to you, the government gentlemen and friends of the majority, the history we have experienced and which is handed over to us by what is happening in Parliament's classrooms with regard to the urgent decree? Or also that on the vote of confidence and the reasons that, without prejudice to the autonomy of the Government, must or should not induce the Government to ask for the measure under consideration the vote of confidence, which should be the extreme ratio? What's that for? Nothing. There is no use for the Government in the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court which, in relation to the use of the decree, cites Article 77 of the Constitution. By virtue of that ruling of the Court it is said that the vice of the decree-law which is issued outside the cases of necessity and urgency is transmitted to the same law of conversion. So this law is born badly and dies in legislative production, with a de profundis that is already proclaimed from the beginning. What's that for? There is no point in recalling the President of the Republic, the President emeritus Napolitano yesterday and the President of the Republic Mattarella today, with reference to the need for common sense and rigour in adherence to the constitutional principles in the matter of recourse to the decree and then to the vote of confidence. There is no point in the Court of Auditors, which has kindly and I would also like to say institutionally highlighted the critical points in relation to the holding of the numbers that are shown by the Government, with reports accompanying the exulting measure, but which see this exultation sanding out before the perplexities of the Court of Auditors and above all - let me say - with very institutional but incontrovertible tones here too, by the Office for Studies of the Senate. The latter expresses doubts as to the actual economic benefits of the measure; it warns with politeness, but with punctuality also regarding the economic sustainability of the measures that are taken with reference to the companies that suffer the introduction of the expenditure ceiling. We are talking about companies operating in the field of medical devices, to which we will have to say "thank you" because they support the research, innovation and development activities in our country, knowing that we allocate economic resources from a telephone prefix to that budget chapter. Instead of thanking them, we punish and push them, almost as if we wanted to say: Get out of Italy because it bothers us, because it creates problems for the economy, development and employment, which they support. Gentlemen of the Government, the truth is that you lack the courage that protects the dignity of the people of the Government and of a country. You lack the courage to go to Europe and renegotiate the budgetary constraints that are imposed on us until they become deadly for the social estate of our country. You lack the courage to go to Europe and to disassemble the Franco-German axis that says the law and that has brought us to our knees. Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, you lack the same courage that still retains, after three years, our people will still be out of the country. You need to make cash and to make cash resorted to ducted delicacies. Today, however, I have heard the most appreciated speeches of my colleagues in the majority when they wanted to illustrate, with authentic references, the Government's commitment to support our health care. Well, I'd say there's also time for a real operation. The truth operation should lead you to say that to make cash you are disassembling the National Health Service, you are cutting into crumbs and you are breaking the national health service based on the principles of universality, equity and solidarity. This is what's happening. This is what the OECD says when it refers to the now reduced economic resources allocated to the health fund, which make us go down to the nineteenth place to maintain a health system in which, instead of saying "thank you" to doctors who support fortunes because they operate in trenches in the absence of governance, they are punished. You get to the paradox of punishing doctors when you should have done something different. A review of the rules on medical misconduct should have been carried out and a sanction measure should have been adopted for those who do not comply with the principles of appropriateness. This is an elementary logic. This is the ABC of those who want to deliver a quality product to legislative production. Instead, we are handing over to the country a further scandalous law and you take responsibility for it. You take responsibility for the fact that this vote of confidence, the 42nd, will certainly find a majority in this House. But, ladies and gentlemen, the vote of confidence is a sign of weakness; it is a sign of irresponsibility. This vow of confidence is an act of arrogance to which you entrust your inability to govern. The Italians are learning to understand it, and I think they've already understood it. You will therefore get today, with our vote against (and in this sense I declare and advance the vote of the Group of Reformist Conservatives), the vote of confidence thanks to the need to support this brand of government that still stands. But from now on a little more will continue to waver the majority that you have in the country, and that you begin to lose because you represent a real damage to social cohesion and the future of our democracy. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u106	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, Decree-Law No 78 on local authorities is not for local authorities, but only to overcome the problems created for local authorities by the wrong policies of this Government. Local authorities face two fundamental difficulties. The first is an obtuse and absurd Stability Pact, which prevents virtuous entities from spending their money on services and investments. Just see the Veneto issue. Those three municipalities had to wait, before they could intervene, for a derogation from the government to spend their money. The other problem is the cuts, which have transformed the municipal solidarity fund, from a system of equalization between local authorities to a safe from which the State withdraws funds. This year will be 625 incapitive municipalities that, instead, receive funds from the State, will be they to finance the central expenditure, with the municipal taxes paid by their citizens. The decree-law once again proposes the cumbersome system of the demand for financial spaces, which are insufficient, through a long, bureaucratic and random mechanism. All just to let the municipalities spend their money. The Internal Stability Pact has no equivalent in any other European country. In this case, there would be an example from Europe, but, of course, we from Europe take only the wrong examples, such as making cheese with milk powder. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That example has to be taken, but this one doesn't! A fundamental node that we see in this decree-law is that of the Provinces. The Delrio reform has proved to be a failure, as we have always advocated. The only real implementation was to deprive citizens of the right to choose their representatives by voting. On everything else, the Delrio reform proved to be the worst possible result. The Provinces today, in the limbo of the definition of competences, have no funds to carry out any activity, but keep intact all the expenses of structure, first and foremost the staff. So, they're spending just to keep themselves, without any activity for the citizens. That's a very good result. Congratulations. The decree-law at the beginning proposed measures (only partially - less badly - mitigated by the amendments) absolutely coarse and dull, such as the one that transferred all the provincial police to the municipalities in full. The Government has shown that it does not know, or care about, the activity of both the municipalities, to which it would have blocked any margin of flexibility, and of the Provinces, that they would no longer have police to carry out those functions that the Delrio law itself attributes to them as fundamental. We have noted that in this measure the solutions that the Government has proposed are only small pieces, necessary to arrive at the end of the year, without structural solutions, without medium-term prospects that allow programming, moving the problems, rather than solving them. That is what this decree-law does. For example, it is allowed to make an annual budget rather than a three-year budget of the Provinces, not knowing what resources and what functions they will have in the future. This is not a solution, but the taking of action of a failure and the impossibility of implementing any policy that has a longer horizon than a few months, institutionalized precariousness. We, in the Commission, did not obstruct, not because we believe the decree-law is valid, but because, without even these few filings, the local authorities would have gone into default, because the government has downloaded on the local authorities the cost of the policies with which it has become beautiful: let us think of the 80 euros, which have been paid with 2.3 billion cut to regional health; let us think of the deductibility of the IRAP, compensated, also here, with cuts to the Provinces and the Municipalities, which are now unable to carry out social services. During the examination in the Commission, the decree-law has deteriorated, unfortunately: the difference between Serie A and Serie B has been exacerbated; nothing to Veneto, but funds to Sicily; the earthquakes of the red regions favored compared to those residing in Lombardy and Veneto. The government's line seems to be to use its role to punish political opponents. On the other hand, we have seen how Renzi is able to punish his political opponents. And what do you do with your allies? It favours them: we think of the governor of Lazio, the mayor of Milan and the governor of Emilia, although unfortunately all this happens on the shoulders of the citizens. The delicate chapter is also that of health: with the amendment of the Government an agreement has been accepted between it and the Regions, which have been cut by almost 2.5 billion, established by the measures of the Renzi Government. It is not an agreement decided voluntarily by the Regions, but unfortunately the ratification of the distribution of a cut, also here, imposed by the Government, approved with the contrary vote of Veneto, Lombardy and Liguria. The Government has imposed the cut on all the Regions, the virtuous ones and the wasteful ones, treated in the same way, despite already exist the Regions benchmark, previewed from the fiscal federalism, according to which it could have been operated on the basis of the standard costs. Allow me to say to the President of the Health Commission, who said earlier in his speech that health care is from all over Italy and that there are regions like Lombardy, Veneto and Liguria that do not want to accept any reform, that the problem is that these three regions have already done reform thirty-five years ago. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The cuts have already made them and have already closed the small hospitals, because these Regions are interested in their own citizens, who have the right to be well cared for, not to be cared for in some way under the house. Even today, in fact, many citizens of the South - and I am sorry for them - are forced to come to the North if they want to be cured. A serious government should punish these things, not give money to these bad administrators yet. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Carraro.]] And in fact, cutting to the virtuous regions that have already reformed their health care spending means also putting at risk the provision of the essential levels of assistance. From this year, almost in total silence, funds, beds and conventions with the structures throughout the national territory will be cut, without however being planned a targeted intervention to erase the most shameful pockets of waste. It is therefore grotesque that, in the aftermath of this decision to reduce the health system already severely, the President of the Council is now implementing a new blackmail on health supply. The covers of the cuts on the first house, gentlemen, will still be covered with new cuts to health care, so the President of the Council Matteo Renzi gets nice, making promises, then imposes on others to cut, so much he does not put the face. It is for all these reasons, Mr President, that the League will vote against the conversion into law of this decree-law, which clearly and comprehensively points out that unfortunately the Government is not finding the ban of the skein. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. The Senators of the LN-Aut Group display signs bearing the inscription "Tornado" in Veneto: from the Government no help".]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u107	Colleagues, I invite you to remove the signs. Begin worrying, the word "tornado" was also used by Minister Boschi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u110	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the draft law No. 1977 (for the conversion of Decree-Law No. 78 of 19 June 2015 on territorial authorities), which we are about to vote on, is part of the overall and demanding process of administrative and political reform of our country's territory. In particular, the draft law in question aims to implement the agreement agreed in the State, City and local self-government last February, in order to allow local authorities to plan the financial activity for 2015 through the redefinition of the objectives of the Internal Stability Pact for the current year. This passage will put the territorial authorities in a position to provide, for example, to accelerate interventions to secure school buildings and the territory, to continue with the payments of past debts from the Regions and local authorities to the enterprises and to address the problems related to the personnel of the Provinces to be relocated. As regards health expenditure, the measures envisaged are the renegotiation of contracts between ASL and suppliers of goods, services and medical devices, the revision by AIFA of the price of medicinal products reimbursed by the national health system and the introduction of protocols for the appropriateness of outpatient services and specialist care. These measures will lead to a rationalization of approximately 2.3 billion euros, but it is correct to remember - this has already been emphasized in other interventions - that it is the application of the agreement sanctioned in the State-Regions Conference at the beginning of July and of what previewed in the last financial maneuver. We, too, are representatives of the special self-employed, who are fully responsible for health expenditure, and we are following the issue of health with great care and concern. With regard to specific interventions on territorial authorities, I cannot fail to stress with satisfaction the article referring to the financial agreement between the State and the Autonomous Region Valle d'Aosta. This is an important and concrete step, following the political agreement signed by the President of the Council of Ministers Matteo Renzi and the President of the Autonomous Region Valle d'Aosta, Augusto Rollandin, last May. This is an objective that has been being worked on for about a year, the result of negotiations between the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and the Administration of the Valle d'Aosta. The agreements are always compromises in which the parties must still negotiate something. The important result is that now the Valle d'Aosta, like the other Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, has a new financial reference agreement, which is a necessary and fundamental tool to administer with clear and defined rules. In summary, the two most important points are the determination of the Internal Stability Pact for the year 2015 (underline the importance of this point) and the transfer by the State to the regional administration of Valdostana, to compensate for the loss of revenue on excise duty due to the Region, the funds necessary for the assumption of the burdens of the local rail transport service, which will see the Autonomous Region Valle d'Aosta take over from the State. I would like to thank the Commission on this point for accepting some of our Group's amendments aimed at bureaucratic simplification and genuine interpretation of the rules, in order to make life easier for our fellow citizens. For this reason, therefore, I announce the vote in favour of confidence by the Group For the Autonomies. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u113	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, as usual, we will not vote for a measure because, if we could have done so, we would have expressed our vote in a structured manner on the basis of each of the articles which made up the text before the House, particularly with regard to the amendments that each of us had prepared, which had been drawn up by our colleagues, on which a debate was opened in the Commission, but which could not have been reflected in this House. Therefore, prevented as we are from reasoning on the merits of the individual article that constitutes this draft law and on the amendments that would be examined and discussed, we must say yes or no to the Government because of the drafting that has been made of a maxi amendment, i.e. to give confidence or not to give it. In this case the problem is solved for us: we will not give trust. However, I would like to explain why we will not give confidence, even because of this content, not because there are no elements within this measure that can also be shared with regard to the location of public workers rather than to problems relating to reconstruction, to compensation for damage to territories affected by natural disasters. We will not trust the Government with regard to the text under consideration because this is yet another omnibus measure, which starts in one way and arrives in another, in which the Government puts in every kind of argument, making it completely incomprehensible to the most (surely to the citizens) the nature of the interventions contained in it. In fact, in order to read it, technicians also have difficulties, let alone the man of the road, the one that has a difficult approach to the norms. In the decree-law in question the references go from one side to the other and should go around with manuals, codes, with the recently approved norms, those that refer to much older measures. Moreover, I now believe that this unevenness is no longer sought, but is found by the Government, because it pursues the problems. He doesn't do it on time, thinking about it, but he's chasing problems. I suggest reading the articles from 9 onwards, namely those concerning the national health system. This is an imposing mass of provisions ranging from the ancillary treatment of staff to the recontracting of supply contracts, to the operation of certain structures. In short, there is everything and more and we intervene on these issues, as on others that concern the local authorities without even being more faithful to the title of this measure that carries: Emergency provisions in the field of local and regional authorities. I say one: but what is urgent about ensuring that employment contracts for employees in the national health system should be reduced in the part relating to ancillary items? What is so urgent that we cannot wait for the law of stability or another measure more punctually oriented towards this segment of public administration? The same applies also to the financial balance enjoyed by Campione d'Italia, a single municipality to which a contribution of 8 million is attributed, that is to say much more than the compensation of 5 million that is planned to give with the establishment of a free zone - which will start only in 2016 - to the Municipality of Olbia, devastated by the natural disaster suffered in 2013 and for which there is still an adequate intervention from the State. With nearly 700 million damage, there is a compensation of 5 million, for which the Commission has struggled with difficulty to draw the attention of the Government and I also think of the majority, who had made many other commitments in relation to that sad affair. We can no longer vote for confidence in measures that make the management of public administration much more complicated and difficult in this country: anything else that I reorder, here we organize systematic confusion. Now our mayors, the local administrators are vexed from below and above, from the dissatisfaction of the citizens due to the impossibility of the administrators themselves to respond to the needs expressed by the local communities, as well as from the pressure exerted on them by an increasingly centralist policy, increasingly closed in the halls of the national government and less and less attentive to the respect of the constitutional values of pluralism of the same powers, the peripheral, local and regional ones, and those of the State. We are rewriting the Constitution through the normative confusion of the decree-laws and the votes of trust, but it is no longer acceptable, because in this there is an evolutionary thread that places the democratic stability of this country at great risk. In fact, the citizen is increasingly impressed in his power to decide on the representation and functioning of the system of local autonomy which, in accordance with Article 5 of the Constitution, are a significant part of the exercise of popular sovereignty. Our opposition, Mr President, is given by these reasons above all, by this confusion, by this unbearable thread that is unraveling in the very disorderly arrangements that continue to be presented to the Senate Assembly rather than to that of the House, in very limited times. This concerns everything: the functions of an environmental nature, the role of police bodies that are called today, thanks to the approval of the provision on environmental crimes, a greater responsibility towards our country and the values of our country, those landscapes and environmental. That is why we will vote no to trust the Government and call on the Senate Assembly, you, President, and above all the majority and the Government, to greater respect and greater constitutional sensitivity. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u116	Mr Gualdani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are about to convert is an important measure for local authorities, especially at this time when they are more burdened than ever by urgent financial problems that risk compromising the balance of their budgets and, above all, the provision of services to citizens. All the interventions in the text of the Decree-Law are marked by giving more breath to local authorities and removing them from the grip of the strict constraints linked to the compliance with the Internal Stability Pact. The decree-law intervenes on all territorial levels that make up the republican structure. With regard to the municipalities, the understanding of the state, the city and the local autonomy is transposed and additional financial spaces are granted for certain types of investment considered no longer extendable, such as the reclamation of asbestos in schools. The penalties for municipalities which failed to comply with the Internal Stability Pact in 2014 were re-determined in decrease, i.e. the reduction of the experimental rebalancing fund or the equalisation fund to the extent of the difference between the result recorded and the predetermined policy objective. The new sanction applies to the extent of 20% of the difference between the 2014 target balance and the financial balance achieved in the same year. This is a reduction in sanctions for non-compliance with the Stability Pact, but it does not mean that the sanctions themselves will fail completely, in order to protect the principle of congency of the Pact. For the year 2015, in order to deal with the damage caused by the air trumpet that affected the municipalities of Dolo, Pianiga and Mira in Veneto on 8 July 2015, the objective of the Internal Stability Pact for each of these municipalities was reduced for amounts necessary to ensure a rapid reconstruction of the infrastructure and the commercial activities affected. The problem of local taxation has remained open and unresolved, which will hopefully be dealt with under the next Stability Act, which will have to introduce a single local tax for simplifying citizens' tax obligations. On the other hand, this measure gave only a partial answer on the subject of agricultural IMU, the payment of which was deferred to 30 October without sanctions. On the provinces and metropolitan cities the decree-law was greatly improved by the Senate, which took on a very critical situation that would have caused the default of most institutions. The reform of the Rio, in fact, has not yet found full attention on the part of the Regions that have not yet provided for the enactment of the regional laws for the redistribution of the functions. Therefore, all the functions, not only the fundamental ones, have remained at the head of the Provinces that have suffered heavy cuts with the law of stability. (17.43) (Gualdani followed). The work in the Senate has tried to remedy these problems by providing exceptional norms for the year 2015 and by putting in default the Regions that do not approve promptly the regional laws to reorder. For example, the Provinces and Metropolitan Cities that have failed to comply with the 2014 Stability Pact have been allowed to conclude new fixed-term contracts for the current year, with a deadline of 31 December 2015, provided that the current balance is guaranteed during the period concerned. With this corrective, large-area entities can renew precarious contracts, whose blockade had caused many protests during 2014. In addition, the issues relating to two categories of employees in the Provinces and Metropolitan Cities have been resolved: those of the provincial police and employment centres. In the general process of reorganization of the employees of the Provinces in the process of abolition, it is expected that the personnel of the Provinces who are commanded or seconded at the date of 31 December 2014 to other public administration will be transferred to it, without prejudice to the guarantee of financial sustainability under the expenditure regime. With regard to the matter of the relocation of the provincial police, it is expected that the authorities of the vast area and the metropolitan cities will identify the provincial police personnel necessary for the exercise of their fundamental functions, within a reassignment of functions of administrative police arranged by regional laws. Should there be any unidentified or unallocated provincial police personnel at 31 October 2015, the transfer to the municipalities, individuals and associates, shall take place. On employment services, an agreement has been concluded between the Government, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, concerning a plan to strengthen the Autonomous Provinces, for the purpose of the delivery of active policies, through the coordinated use of national and regional funds, as well as the resources of operational programmes co-financed by European funds. Provinces and metropolitan cities may conclude fixed-term employment contracts for the purposes of the operation of employment centres, with a maturity not later than 31 December 2016, even in the event of non-compliance with the Internal Stability Pact for 2014. We also remember the funding for the Sicilian Region to cope with the decrease in IRPEF revenues. We also remember that the measure also provides other important responses to the territories affected by the serious disasters of recent years, from the earthquake of Abruzzo in 2009, to the earthquake of Lombardy and Emilia Romagna in 2012, to the flood of Sardinia in 2013, with the aim of making transparent and fast reconstructions also through the establishment of free urban areas to which to devote important resources for investment. In this regard, the People's Area shares the need no longer extendable to intervene with a framework regulation on calamitous events that allows to establish equal measures for all territories that automatically trigger at the occurrence of certain conditions. Also important are the additional resources allocated for the backward payments of regions and local authorities to companies as well as all the measures envisaged for the launch of the electronic identity card. Let us also remember that during its work the Commission has tried to ensure the best solution to the long-standing question of the operation of tax agencies, providing for the possibility of issuing public competitions for the coverage of organic holidays of managers. In order to ensure the needs of current operational functionality, it has provided for the possibility to delegate, following a selective procedure with objective and transparent criteria, to third-area officials with professional experience of at least five years in the area, the functions relating to the offices of which they have taken over the interim management and related powers for the adoption of acts for a period not exceeding 31 December 2016. Finally, in the area of security, the use of military personnel belonging to the Armed Forces is extended until 31 December 2015 for the purpose of monitoring sensitive sites and targets, in the framework of safe roads operations and the Tierra dei Fuochi (Terra dei Fuochi) operations. In view above all of the extraordinary needs related to the Jubilee, the extraordinary recruitment of 1,050 units in the State Police, of 1,050 units in the Carabinieri Arm, of 400 units in the Finance Guard, for each of the years 2015 and 2016. The measure, Madam President, is full of content and ideas that constitute a good starting point for the recovery of territorial authorities; we are aware that the speech does not end here and that further measures will have to be taken in the next financial manoeuvre. Secure of the reformative action of the Government, People's Area will vote in favour of the provision, certain that in the next law of stability the nodes left open will be loosened. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u119	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, it is now clear that we citizens of the 5 Star Movement and you professional politicians speak two different languages; on the contrary, you do not speak any more, since the Democratic Party and the People's Area Group have given up speaking in general debate. When we say "trust," we mean trust, which comes from the verb trusting, having faith. When you talk about trust, instead, you mean arrogance, deceit and blackmail. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Blackmail is to Members appointed by the parties who, in order not to lose the chair, would vote on the question of trust in anything. Deception is towards the citizens, always and in any case. Renzi came to this House to ask for confidence in his government and said (among many things amene, including that of not being old): We draw close to you on tiptoes, with the deep, non-formal respect that is due to this House. On the contrary, it has not given us deep respect but very high forms of contempt, leading also to attitudes of arrogance and pride of the Executive power towards the legislative one, that is, of arrogance of power. Renzi said again: Today asking for trust means proposing a bold, unified vision and for some aspects even innovative. On the contrary, he gave us seventeen months of disgust, nightmares, attacks on the basic principles of representation and political sovereignty that must be interrupted. On the contrary, we need a wise separation of powers between the Government and Parliament by recovering a noble and solid respect for individual prerogatives. It is before everyone's eyes that with Renzi the situation has fallen. Trust has been demanded, except today's, for 17 times on decree-laws, 21 times on draft laws, and once again we are here talking about a matter of trust. I have to think that in the future trust will also be used to have the handcuffs put to the journalists of "Report", "Piazza Pulita", "Dallarò", "Annozero", "Le Hyene", "Strip the news" and to all investigative reporters who, to collect evidence for investigations, use cameras and recorders. By now, the use of trust has lost its completely exceptional, special and extraordinary character, so as to understand and underline its modest, if not rare, use. On the contrary, the bold vision for Renzi in this House is to mortify our parliamentary prerogatives, especially those of the majority. As illustrious constitutionalists have written and rewritten, this is an attitude that strongly contrasts with the logic and principle of the parliamentary Republic. The centrality of the representative body par excellence is, in fact, threatened by a prevalence of solicitations and impositions that sound like ultimatums by the Executive Body, which ends up replacing the legitimate recipient of the legislative power, which is Parliament. Moreover, the situation confirmed, precisely, by the high amount of laws born through the mere conversion of decrees-laws or delegated laws, or forms recognized as exclusive prerogatives of the government. Is this how the President-in-Office approaches us, on his toes and with deep respect? That respect he cleverly promised when he settled in? The consequences of an insistent recourse to the instrument of trust are, therefore, very serious, especially because of the value and the political significance that they contain in themselves. The worst we thought we had seen him in January 2014, when the Letta Government deceived the Italians by urgent approval of the IMU-Bankitalia decree. It was told to the Italians that the decree-law was used not to pay the second installment of the IMU, while in reality they wanted to give only a gift to the banks. I could continue to tell you, as we have done several times, that you are improperly using the instrument of the decree-law, that you are abusing the issue of trust, that you trample on democracy, that you ignore the opposition and, consequently, ignore the millions of citizens represented by the opposition. I could repeat all these things to you, but it would be useless: you don't care at all, because for you decree-laws and trust issues are the only way to stay afloat and preserve majorities, powers and privileges. Once again, we are talking about another issue of trust, today about the decree-law on territorial authorities that concerns a long series of problems: from the relaxation of the constraints of the internal stability pact, to the mobility of the Provinces' staff and provincial police, to the postponement of the entry into force of the safeguard clause provided for in the event of the European Union's failure to authorise the reverse charge mechanism for VAT in the area of large-scale distribution, resulting in the increase of excise duties on fuels (to name but a few). Problems that are not solved, but postponed, procrastinated. In short, they move the hands to postpone the explosion that will come sooner or later: the important thing for you is that it does not arrive now, given the resounding decline in consensus of both the Democratic Party and Renzi. These are the things that all citizens should know: while Renzi announces the cut of 45 billion taxes, here in the Senate the majority of government is forced to solve in an emerging way a hole of 728 million, which she herself created to avoid the increase of excise duties on fuels. Even the rapporteur, Zanoni, admitted the critical aspects of the cover and problems that remained unsolved in the decree-law, such as - we have just seen the sign - the tornado in Veneto, the flood of two years ago in Sardinia, the problems of Molise, the ARPA of Puglia, the European School of Parma, and these are just small examples. People should know that for the Senate Budget Studies Service, the measures you are taking today are at risk of ineffectiveness. By now you can only gain confidence and vote for it yourself, between the four walls of the palaces: but outside these rooms the confidence of the citizens no longer has it. You no longer have the confidence of workers and workers, to whom you have taken away rights and hopes. You no longer have the confidence of VAT matches, which you have choked even more with the last law of stability; VAT matches that will have as only consolation that you will not see the 27 percent increase in INPS contributions further, thanks to an amendment of the 5 Star Movement. You no longer have the confidence of those precarious teachers that you first deceived, behind the elections, and then abandoned, and not even the confidence of the role teachers, who will now find themselves with a public school that looks more and more like a company. You no longer have the confidence of the Italian families, to whom you have cut the essential services in order to finance the bluff of the "80 euros" and win last year's European elections. You no longer have the confidence of those who care about the territory, of those who want to preserve the clean and healthy sea, because you preferred to please only the oil multinationals that have made you write under dictation the decree unlocks Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You no longer have the trust of pensioners, to whom you have returned only a few crumbs compared to what they removed with the Fornero law contained in the Italian saving decree of the Monti Government, also this approved with confidence and voted by almost all the parties appointed to the House and the Senate. We citizens have proposed a more rational solution, for a total refund of 100%, for pensions from three to eight times the minimum. You have also lost the confidence of the unemployed, of the young people who are no longer working and who, without the approval of a measure such as our citizenship income, are condemning poverty. When we are in the government - when the Italian citizens are in government, and I think soon - we will dismantle one by one all these laws that you have imposed with confidence, that is, blackmail and deception, making you strong of numerical majorities in continuous evolution; numerical majorities that have been guaranteed only by palace intrigues and by an unconstitutional electoral law; numerical majorities that have never represented the will of the voters. You never had our trust, but you don't even have the country's trust anymore. Actually, no, you have someone's. You have gone from the support of a condemned in a final way like Berlusconi to a plurimo sent to trial like Verdini, lately accused of fraudulent bankruptcy, in addition to the medals already won before: accusation of competition in corruption, referral to trial for corruption, accusation of bankruptcy, referral to trial for wrongdoing and fraud. Congratulations to the Democratic Party! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Dear Verdini, in a majority already full of suspects, requests for arrest and referrals in court...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u120	You have to finish, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u121	CASTALDI (M5S). Yes, but I would like to say to Verdini that, in a majority already full of these people, he will be perfectly at ease. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u124	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the assumptions on which to judge the measure before our examination, which concerns territorial authorities, must start from the overall framework of public finance in which it is located and not only from its momentary or occasional assessment. For this reason, the government's imposition of the question of trust shifts the subject under consideration, projecting it on an exquisitely political level. The decree-law partially transposes the agreement of 19 February last between the Government and the associations of the territorial authorities: an agreement that temporarily improves the accounts of the local authorities, widening the financial spaces of the most recent constraints established by the last law of stability. But it is also true that the availability of the current resources of the Municipalities pays at least four years of cuts to transfers to Municipalities, Provinces and Regions, recording the attempt, moreover successful, to give a fiscal autonomy to the local authorities. We are faced with a measure that once again has a heavy impact on the life of every single Italian municipality. First of all, I would like to remind you that the mayors, the subject of the continuous "angeries" of the central government and therefore forced them despite being "gabeliers," are the only ones to be legitimated to govern by at least 51% of the votes of the people. President Renzi's party in the last parliamentary elections took 25.43 percent of the votes, which is less than half of 51%. But, thanks to the majority prize, it can govern without a clear consent of the Italians and with the support of elected parliamentarians in other groups. Well, this government, like the two previous ones, to reduce waste is continuing to saber the spaces of maneuver of the municipalities, but reducing the services to the citizens and continuing to increase the expenditure of the central state. Between 2010 and 2014, the resources available for Italian municipalities increased from €28.339 billion to €22.824 billion. The municipalities have, therefore, lost 5.515 billion euros, giving the largest contribution to the service of public finance. At the same time, the tax revenues of the municipalities increased by more than 9,555 billion, while the level of the erial transfers decreased by 12,794 billion. On the contrary, State spending rose from 797 billion in 2010 to 827 billion in 2014. At the end of 2015 the new historical record of 838 billion will be reached, among other things in a context in which the lower charges on the debt have "gifted" 1.3 billion euros to the public budget. The counter-test of what we say also lies in a debt that has reached EUR 2,218 billion, as a result of the increase in central government spending, which accumulates billions after billion in the bottomless pit of debt. In just over fifteen months - from the end of February 2014 to the end of May 2015 - the Renzi Government alone has managed to add exactly 112 billion euros to the debt stock. Even after the Treasury's liquid assets - as Minister Padoan likes to calculate - in just fifteen months 76 billion new debts have been accumulated. During the same period, local administrations (regions, provinces and municipalities) reduced their debt by 8.4 billion, from 108.6 billion to 100.2 billion. Very few of this new debt was, therefore, fueled by the payment of the previous debts of the general government, paid by the Renzi Government between 28 March 2014 and 31 January 2015 (last available data), for an amount of 13.7 billion euros. The municipalities demand more space and resources to pay off the debts certified at 31 December 2013 that have not yet been paid, for the sole purpose of giving breath to the companies supplying goods and services. The increase in the debt stock is due to the combination of incorrect risk management on the mass of debt and an increasingly approximate fiscal policy. In this general context, efforts have been made to implement a model of truly sclerotic federalism, which can be summed up in four phases. In the first phase, there are more taxes and taxes levied locally in the coffers of the municipalities. In the second phase, this reduces its dependence on Rome, limiting state transfers. In the third phase, the municipalities themselves are required to participate in the objective of a stability pact that is always established at central level. In the fourth and final phase, finally, the most virtuous municipalities are asked to feed a municipal solidarity fund in order to equalize resources at local level. The mechanism of equalization of the resources of the municipal solidarity fund is an unfair mechanism, so the 741 million now allocated to the municipalities by the ordinary-status regions generate partial redistributive effects. These will necessarily be gradually eliminated. In this context and in the face of these data of some importance, there is a decree "small" in the numbers that, due to the effects it creates, will certainly and again contribute to increasing taxes. In fact, to consider - for example - among the costs also the eventual lacked revenues relative to credits results inexpressible of the services rendered from the municipalities will necessarily mean to induce the municipalities themselves to increase the tariff on the waste (the infamous TARI). And the increase will be widespread and will affect all citizens and businesses that have regularly paid the tax. The new taxes, even if they help the coffers of the municipalities, slow down by their nature, the economy, the enterprise and the creation of jobs. The current wording of the decree-law and the complicated intricacy of codes, norms and implementing provisions of methods already agreed with the association of the Municipalities make us reaffirm that it is necessary to get out of this phase of transition as soon as possible. It is necessary to define more certainties for the use of own revenue by the municipalities. It is essential to overcome the Internal Stability Pact, which limits the path towards this path, in order to arrive at a truly federal model of municipal finance. This presupposes a path of territorial authorities' responsibility for the resources to be available and their use. Above all, however, a maximum level of taxation must be established, which can and must be lower than at present. On this path, achieving a common level of standard costs and respecting the levels of the Stability Pact will be useful in achieving the desired results. At the moment when a genuine autonomy of the territorial authorities is created, the State can no longer ask for sacrifices from them, but must really begin its slimming care. In these years - as I have already said - the local authorities (the municipalities, the provinces and the regions) have made the diet while the State was witnessing their sacrifice, continuing to increase the current expenditure. In this context, the decree-law comes close to announcements that change the path undertaken by the Government towards the local tax and towards the reform of the cadastral extimes to pass - it is not yet known as - to a phantom abolition of the IMU on the first house announced by President Renzi. At a time when we are moving towards a financial autonomy of the municipalities we must bear in mind that we cannot, as now, have about 80% of their income from property taxes. It is necessary to rethink the local finance system as a whole: fewer taxes on municipalities and greater involvement in the collection of income taxes, with a simultaneous reduction in the percentage of income tax attributed to the State. All this must, however, lead to an overall reduction in the level of taxation and tax burden. "Less taxes and more enterprise" is the usual liberal recipe that clashes with the Keynesian recipes applied so far in countries that cannot get out of the crisis. With regard to this decree-law, our assessment is as follows: it is - as I said before - a tiny regulatory intervention, a very uneven measure that deals with many, too many different things; a decree-law that does not substantially change the life of the municipalities and that would not have deserved the favorable vote of Forza Italia, as well as does not deserve our confidence this Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u127	SANTINI (PD). Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party will vote for confidence and with conviction this measure on the basis of two assessments both on the content and - as I shall say at the end - on the ways in which Parliament has dealt with the issues contained in it. As far as the content is concerned, I think it is right to remember that this is a decree-law that is in a phase of transition between the last law of stability and the new law of stability, which will be drawn up at the end of this year. As everyone knows, some measures, in particular those relating to local authorities and health, basically implement agreements between the State, the Government, the local authorities and, indeed, the regions that had been defined, in their essential characteristics, already during the law of stability. It therefore implements - we might say - in terms of a path that had only been indicated at the time. From this point of view, by entering into the substance, I believe that we cannot fail to note the positivity of the decree-law under consideration. As far as the municipalities are concerned, there is a loosening of the Stability Pact, which is certainly still limited on certain cases, but which are important and significant, and which preludes to a more comprehensive intervention which will have to take place in the near future, with regard to the progressive overcoming of the Stability Pact. With regard to the interventions, the 530 million which go to complete the intervention on the taxation of the real estate of the house, established just last year in terms of blocking, also in this case represent a measure that is halfway between a planned reorganization of the taxation on the real estate (the local tax) and, in particular, a reduction of the same taxes on the real estate. Finally, the measures not contained in this decree-law, which concern the purchasing power stations that will have to come into force now in the coming months, also represent an important path in favour of local authorities, in order to improve the quality of expenditure, in order to make economies and therefore, from this point of view, to have more resources available. A second subject which I think is very important concerns the strengthening, with this measure, of the implementation path of Law No 56, that is the law that has redesigned our institutional structures, in particular with the introduction of large-area entities and metropolitan cities. There is a long list of interventions, which the rapporteurs have highlighted in a much more precise way than I do, but which I want, only with the title, to remember and which are: the possibility of the annual budget, the use of the management surplus in the budget, the reduction of sanctions, the support to the provinces in failure, the increase of the resources for the centers for the employment and the assistance to the sensory disabled, the rules that commit the Regions by October to realize the assumption of the functions and the staff, the rules regarding the provincial police. They are all interventions that put (or put) on the right track the reform of institutional structures in the territory, and they can allow to think that, in the next law of stability, this path is still strengthened, so that the reform is completed and redesigns an institutional structure more precisely to the functions of the various agencies and more effective to ensure a management of our territory. A second important strand in this decree-law concerns calamities. Here too, why not remember them? Of the older ones, of the earthquakes - perhaps we remind them less - their effects are still present and need interventions that have been carried out punctually, both in the Emilia-Romagna triangle, Lombardy and Veneto (for the earthquake of those areas) and in L'Aquila. This is also found in the speeches, although in a different way from what was found by some lines of representatives of the League. Then there are painful disasters, but not yet healed, like those of Sardinia, which are the subject of specific intervention with the free zones. And then there is the recent and dramatic calamity of the air trumpet in the three Venetian municipalities, for which I want to point out that, thanks to the commitment of all Venetian parliamentarians, and without distinction of presence, the Government has meanwhile incorporated in this decree-law the liberation of the financial spaces for the municipalities concerned. And this is not a secondary matter, even in the dimension, of course well knowing that, after the first speeches, we will have to continue, because of the gravity and drama of the situation. I would like to point out to the friends of the League, with great care and also with a feeling of union in difficulties, that in 2010 the flood in Veneto was even, in the first few weeks, ignored at national level. And the government of then was not the Government of PD, but was the homogeneous Government of the League and of Forza Italia. So if we compare these two events, we see the steps forward that the government has taken in this matter. And we need more. Another important part concerns - as I have already said - health, in which the State-Regions agreement is incorporated and the element that has affected it, not so much the cuts, but the lack of increases in the National Health Fund. It was said in that law that the agreement would then define how it would be implemented. And that is what is being done. It has nothing to do - as has already been said in other speeches - with a debate that has opened, perhaps too prematurely, on what will be the new law of stability, on how we will have to strike a fair balance between the quality of expenditure, the safeguarding of services and, of course, the revision of waste and inefficiencies that, unfortunately, are still present in our public spending. I would like to make two final references before concluding. As has been pointed out by a few, and I want to stress this, a thread goes through this measure and concerns employment at this difficult stage in the life of our institutions. As you can see and see, in many points of the measure there are the extension of fixed-term contracts and those of employment centres, important recruitment in the Forces of Order, the solution of a problem created in tax agencies regarding staff, which is unlocked with these rules. We are certainly not, therefore, in the presence of decisive aspects, because the issue of employment must also be carefully considered in the public sector. We are, however, in the presence of concrete help to resolve situations that concern people who - for example - in the case of tax agencies, will need other interventions, also in the tax delegation law and in the reform of the public administration. Let me conclude with a point of method: with our vote in favour, we also want to make the most of the role that Parliament has played in this matter and in the decree-law under consideration. The question of trust is raised, except for very few variations, on a text that has long been discussed in the Commission, with a positive contribution and - I want to emphasise this - constructive of all the Groups and an effective interaction with the Government, aimed at positive solutions to the problems posed by all the Groups. Although all this - friends - has been little reflected in the explanations of vote that have been placed in the usual dialectic between majority and opposition, I think it is right to emphasize this aspect, and not only for a due thank you to all of you - so to all the senators of the Commission; to the rapporteurs, who have collected this work effectively; to President Sangalli and, if you will allow me, also to his predecessor Azzollini, who has given, together with him, his contribution to the work - but also because I think that the same spirit can accompany in the near future the phase that is opening. I believe this is a right way to address a fundamental reform strategy for the country, which is still in the midst of its objectives and difficulties and which - as we shall see - will still be at the heart of the discussion of the stability law to find the right balance between development policies, the highest quality policies of public spending and its revision, as well as policies of reducing taxation. Doing all this will not be easy at all: we need a spirit - of course, everyone will have his own positions - that can identify that path that will bring Parliament and its work to the service of an increasingly necessary reformism and in harmony with the real needs of the country. For these reasons, as a PD Group, we vote with conviction on this measure and trust in the Government. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u128	Colleagues, since it was agreed at the Conference of Leaders that the vote of confidence would not begin until 6.30 p.m., I suspend the sitting, which will then resume at that time with the immediate beginning of the call. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 18.17 and resumed at 18.34.) We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u129	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,700, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 78 of 19 June 2015, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator De Siano is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator De Siano. AMATI, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, the Presidency takes over - 18.45 p.m.) The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Battista, Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bondi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Cassano, Casson, Chiavaroli, Chiti, Cirinnà, Cocincich, Collina, Compagnia, Conte, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Filippin, Finocchia, Di Giorgi, D'Onghi Losso Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Favero, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippi, Filippino, Fin, Finchia, Finchiaro, Fincori, D', Fisoro, Fisoro, Forni Logiori, Forni, Forni The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amoruso, Aracri, Auricchio Barani, Barozzi, Bellot, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Bignami, Bisinella, Blundo, Bocca, Bocchino, Bottici, Bruni, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Caliendo, Bell, Chapel, Cardiello, Caridi, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolilino, Cioffi, Compagnone, Conti, Cotti, Crimi D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Siano, Donno Endrizzi, Fasano, Fattori, Fazzone, Ferrara Mario, Marloris, Fucksia Gaetti, Gambaro, Gasparri, Giarrusso, Girotto Iurlaro Lezzino, Ferrara, Lombardi, Marri, Margielli, Fucksia Gaetti, Gambaro, Gambarro, Gambarri, Gabino, Girrusso, Girotto PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,700, entirely replacing the sole article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 78 of 19 June 2015, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 275 Senators voting 274 Majority 138 Favorable 163 Contrars 111]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Berger.]] All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 78.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u132	PHASE (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it will take me just a minute or a little longer to renew the appeal to the Government for what I have requested with an amendment concerning the establishment of free zones in border areas of Friuli-Venezia Giulia and other Italian regions, which has found no place in the measure that has just been approved and which I have convincedly supported, to find an openness to comparison and a willingness to build a possible path of active and non-assisted support towards territories where small and medium-sized enterprises find themselves operating in total impossibility to compete. According to a very recent study, in fact, the geographical location bordering Austria and Slovenia is affected by competition from neighbouring countries to the point of making the production fabric out of all competitiveness. This is due to tax differences, with a much more beneficial system for Slovenia and Austria. For example, in Austria the rate of income generated by legal persons is 25% and in Slovenia 17%, while in Italy it is 30.48 percent. Slovenia's tax legislation provides for tax relief, with a deduction from the tax base of 100% of R &amp; D investments and 40% of investment in capital, tangible and intangible assets. A further disadvantage is the hourly labour cost, which in Italy is 28.3 euros, compared with 15.6 euros in Slovenia. In this country, therefore, it is 45 percent lower than the cost borne by entrepreneurs and workers in Italy. The same applies to other areas of the country with similar disadvantages, such as the Val di Susa. Colleagues, these are not localisms, but objective situations that really deserve a deepening and attention so that everyone understands that the desertification of the entrepreneurial fabric along the border areas needs tax relief and tools, but above all is the occasion for the establishment of a laboratory for tax harmonisation. Therefore, the principle that the country is one and indivisible and that every part in difficulty must find listening and help right here must be strongly reaffirmed. [[Senator Sollo's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u133	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-492.ana.u134	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 29 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.24 p.m.
