ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 14 May.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u10	Mr Azzollini (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to ask you to suspend for a maximum of half an hour, at the end of the general debate, the examination of the draft law laying down provisions for the protection of minors for the prevention and combating of the phenomenon of cyberbullying. At present, in fact, the passing technical report has not yet arrived. We are working hard, and for this I thank Deputy Minister Morando who is here in the Senate, to speed up the presentation of the technical report, in order to be able to examine, discuss and approve the measure in time. At the end of the general debate, therefore, we will need a very short suspension of the work of this House in order to be able to be fulfilled. I would remind you, Mr President, that the passing technical report is a preliminary one, which we must examine, and then we will be ready, having been the work already done.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u11	President Azzollini, I would like to make your request: you are asking for the sitting to be suspended after the general debate on draft laws has been closed. 1261 and 1620. I would like to make another proposal: if, at the end of the general debate, we had to move on to the next item on the agenda, in order to resume in the afternoon sitting the examination of the draft laws for which we are awaiting the technical report, would it be okay anyway?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u12	Mr. President, that's okay with me. I do not want to disturb the work of this House. I am willing and, of course, Mr President, I will return to your decisions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u13	If the group leaders agree, I would like to conclude the general discussion of the draft law on combating the phenomenon of cyberbullying and then move on to the next item on the agenda, so that, during the break between the afternoon and the afternoon sitting, the 5th standing Commission can be expressed, and then resume the examination of these draft laws at the afternoon sitting. As no comments are made, so it remains established.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u14	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1261 and 1620.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Senator Ferrara, who, as the first signatory to this draft law, has had the merit not only of putting the issue of cyberbullying at the centre of political confrontation, but also of proposing approaches and solutions that take close account of the subject we are approaching as legislators. In fact, we are talking about boys and girls, who are not small adults, but growing subjects, to be educated, supported and not to be criminalized, because that of early criminalization has all the requirements to become a road barred at an age when instead awareness and consciousness are concepts often still to be built. I particularly appreciate the fact that the solutions identified by my colleague Ferrara, in addition to providing for the removal of the offenses that materialize on the web and a warning addressed to its authors, have first of all an educational and non-punitive character and prescribe by law a deepening of the causes, starting from a careful monitoring of the phenomenon and its evaluation within a technical table, whose results will feed increasingly targeted and effective interventions in schools regarding the responsible use of the new technologies and the various forms of mass communication that proliferate in the worlds that the Network creates. Before sharing a reflection on the causes and cultural implications and, consequently, on the importance of positive models to combat the phenomenon we are talking about today, I would like to mention a few facts. We need to realise that over 90 percent of teenagers in Italy are Internet users and 98 percent of them claim to have a profile on one of the most well-known and used social networks, such as Facebook, Twitter, Ask and Instagram. We are therefore talking about very populated squares thanks to which young people, through mobile phones and smartphones very popular and constantly connected to the Network, can access global contexts at any time with a simple click. I'm talking about kids, but children are actually more and more involved. We are tempted to think that cyberbullying is nothing more than an extension to the Network of Classical Bullying that we know from schools: on the contrary, it is not at all a simple dislocation of certain behaviors on the Net, as the potentially global scope makes cyberbullying a singular phenomenon. In fact, if in the real world a gesture is not enough to talk about bullying, in the virtual world sometimes it only takes a simple gesture, a click, to create irreparable damage. It is true that the offensive material can now be removed more easily, but it is also true that it is not possible to permanently eliminate all traces. Another peculiarity of cyberbullying is that, while in the context of the bullying that is consumed in the real world the house represents a place of refuge, in relation to aggressions and offenses on the Net the domestic walls instead are the place where the crime is consumed and where the attacks are suffered. This fact can exponentially increase the sense of loss and impotence of the young ridicule object and what the victim often perceives as a dead end, in more than one case, has led to extreme gestures such as suicide. So we are talking about a seemingly harmless gesture that can cause irreparable consequences and the young person who uses the web must be made aware of the possible relapses. This is a job for adults. My colleague, Mrs Ferrara, has done well to identify in the school a person capable of carrying out this task, since it is an institution which may in turn be obliged by law to be informed, educated and sensitive about causes and remedies in relation to the phenomenon of cyberbullying and, therefore, able to educate young people in responsible behavior that they would not otherwise demonstrate. I found a project called "TABBY on the Internet" (Evaluation of the threat of cyberbullying in young people), the result of the European programme Daphne, which explains the phenomenon, identifies the causes and offers explanations to teachers. With respect to the role of the latter, according to this project, in many of these cases, the school in general or teachers feel powerless or do not feel it is their job to deal with or worry about the problem, since it affects the kids when using the Net or mobile phones. Although most teachers are aware of the significant negative effects of cyberbullying on students and are concerned about the spread of this phenomenon, they do not believe it is the responsibility of the school. I'll take care of it. The role of teachers in helping young people in difficulty, raising awareness and providing information is thus indicated. We all know that, in reality, there is a sort of ping-pong between the world of school and parents: teachers complain about undisciplined and disrespectful students who obviously have not learned at home, while parents turn their frittata, saying that teachers are incapable of being respected, because they do not know how to do their job and do not have empathy for their children. In the midst of this dispute are the child, the boy, the teenager who must correspond to a school that all too often seems to reward only one unique model, that of the student who knows how to store an infinite amount of information. There is also talk of a bulimic method of study, according to which notions are swallowed up and regurgitated at command. If we talk about punishments - in the field of psychology the bad votes are considered a punishment - of exclusion and judgment, we know that, even today, these are the tools to encourage the growing subject to study. The term "love" to speak of study does not appear in the vocabulary of the school, although it is, in fact, a growing subject. This means that everyone proceeds with their own rhythm and can happen the genius that abstracts at the age of four, spying with the question: where are the thoughts born? Similarly, there are children who, at the age of fourteen, still need to touch with their hands and see with their eyes what they are talking about, because they are not yet able to produce mental representations. But our system, after the spring flowering, also eradicates those flowers that would bloom only in autumn. And we haven't talked about the situations at home, where parents are increasingly busy at work, or stressed because they haven't at all, they can't get in touch with their children. It is a context that, of course, does not lend itself to transmitting values and models that, in the society around us, do not appear. I can think of great conferences I attended, which dealt with topics such as doping, gender violence and homophobia, and which were always closed with two sentences: It is a matter of culture and it is necessary to start from schools. Culture is always quoted as being a divine determination, while it is that thing that we are all. It makes me think that in this game, in which everyone remembers the responsibilities of others and in which no one feels directly called into question, perhaps it is good to remember that the complex systems are that context in which the whole is more than the sum of its parts, which change, however, only starting from the contribution of every single component of it. I shall conclude by saying that I greatly appreciated the unanimous vote obtained by this measure in the House of Deputies, which I hope will also be obtained in the Senate. Our vote involves a precise commitment of all of us to take into account the fact that we are models for boys, who lack firm points, and the boys reproduce such models. All too often, it is politics, which I hope will be able to vote on today, that is the author of cyberbullying and does not respect the rules. Good vote. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u16	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u17	Mr President, we are talking about cyberbullying and we are making distinctions between bullying and cyberbullying, and certainly the Internet, as an instrument, brings mechanisms deep into the intimacy and everyday life of those who are subject to these harassments. But let's take a step back. Surely there is an absence in the adult world and there are bad models in terms of aggression and intolerance. In fact, bullying and cyberbullying, as a special instrument and with a special impact, arise from rejection and hostility towards diversity. Clearly, if we are talking about diversity, we must take a further step back. In other words, we must talk about the fact that, behind the rejection of diversity, there is also the construction of a model and that the more a subject deviates from the model, the more it will become exposed to attacks, precisely because it will be perceived as something foreign and different. Well she said, in her report at last week's sitting, Senator Finocchiaro spoke of a rejection of the penalty. All right, then, also a different strategy, a strategy that leads to more information, a strategy that inevitably - as always happens when we talk about phenomena strongly linked to patterns of behaviour - leads us to school. In the course of the general debate, and even a short while ago in Mr Idem's speech, I heard a series of inability attributed to the school. In fact, it is necessary here to claim to the school a series of elements that have been culturally tested. The school remains, however, despite the lack of resources, an outpost in many aspects: in the use of the network; in the education of variety; in the desire to integrate and in the capacity of the critical sense for the demystification of canons; in the individuality; in the search for paths that enhance the individual and help him to affirm his peculiarities; in the autonomy of judgment; in the ability to self-assessment; in the ability to accept and accept the other. It is certainly true, therefore, that teachers are sentries. And it is certainly true that teachers have a task for which society and the family are clearly inadequate today. And when I talk about society and the family, I am referring to a substantial absence of parents from the need to listen to and understand the life and everyday life of their children. But I am also referring to the responsibility that all society and politics must assume in relation to the affirmation and promotion of models of intolerance, of canons to which it is difficult to react. It is a kind of communication education that is also education to the use of the Network. The idea of teacher training is therefore wonderful and the idea that, in the school, a model of response to this form of bullying is also wonderful. Now, however, I would also like to refer to a problem that we find within this bill. In Article 4 we find that formula that always anguish, vresses and worries the school, I refer to the last period of paragraph 2 of Article 4, which reads: From the adoption of the guidelines, no new or increased burden for public finance shall arise. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] I would then like to give you a small example, given the many pieces of personal experience that have been made. My sister sees 174 students every week, and she is a teacher not of physical education, but of Italian and Latin. He works on three different locations and is in six different class councils, which are not the same as last year and will not be the same next year either. He must run from one school to another and, therefore, in full availability, his work is not - as Senator Idem said - merely of evaluation, of exchange of performance and information and of collecting results, but is educational in full capacity. I would like us all to reflect on what are the spaces for a teacher who sees 174 students per week, who do not have the teaching continuity on them and compared to colleagues of the class councils, as well as the ideal possibility to stop and talk with his students. What can you possibly think is, in a situation like this, the space for that individual and personal dialogue, which is the only one that, with time, can lead to an open conversation, even on phenomena that undoubtedly touch the intimacy of a growing young man, a young boy, a teenager and even a child? It is certainly important to stress once again the existence of places to respond, for us politicians, to the needs that we see and to the evils that are increasingly afflicting our society. However, I would like us to come out of a certain hypocrisy: we continue to ask the school to offer substitute services for what neither politics nor society can give, but we refuse to make a serious investment in resources that are not only material, but also attention to aspects on which teachers, more than ever, ask us to reflect. And it is those aspects of school governance that must correspond to a series of principles that, from the perspective of the famous rationalization, are completely disregarded, and are the rest, the space, the numbers, the physical and material spaces and the continuity in the didactic relationship. All this is crumbled by the need to rationalise expenditure, and we must be clear about this. Then let this bill and serious reflection come. I hope, since the draft law on school was adopted yesterday, that this House will also take the responsibility of expressing serious, strong and definitive words that will help the school meet all those demands that we constantly address. We're talking traffic homicide, and we don't know that we do street education at school. We're talking about civil unions, de facto couples, affection-related phenomena, and we don't know that in school we get affectionate education. We are talking about migration and the need for integration, and we do not know that in school we try to interculture. The school, beyond all the cuts and subtractions that have been made to it, is an institution that is continuing, heroically and courageously, to give those answers that - I regret to say - neither politics nor society are today able to give equally heroic, timely and courageously. [[Applause from the Misto-MovX Group and the Senators Ferrara Elena, Lo Giudice, Padua and Palermo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u18	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, draft law No 1261 has arrived in the Chamber thanks to Senator Ferrara, and I have warmly welcomed the achievement of a goal desired by parents and the world of school. Cyberbullying is a phenomenon that spreads at high speed in the adolescent and youth world, and affects - as has been said by more than one - the age group ranging from 10 to 17 years. The contrast to cyberbullying has been the subject of an experiment of the MIUR since 2007 (to be precise, not cyberbullying but bullying), with a whole series of actions such as "Demount the Bully," "Stop the Bullying" and with the establishment of regional observers and "ABC," that is, the European campaign against bullying, in which I personally participated, together with other fellow school leaders, with the involvement of the Forces of the Order and with the organization of educational moments, already then important. There are many initiatives to combat bullying, undertaken and coordinated by the MIUR, already active in various territorial areas. As I said, the permanent regional observers, set up under Ministerial Directive No 16 of 5 February 2007, are active at regional school offices and - in my opinion - represent a very important achievement, to which is added the one that is absolutely indispensable, that will come out of this House. The phenomenon was rampant in the school: especially in the two years, but also in the three years, several cases of various nature were observed. Psychological violence among peers exposed the victim to public denigration, often leading him to resigned submission, with teachers - sentinels as someone said - willing to deepen the problem, but with few parents aware of the severity of the phenomenon, ignored or underestimated by both the parents of the executioner and those of the victim. So there is little general willingness to take on the problem. On various occasions I found myself interviewing the parties (boys, families, teachers), but often the attitude that we met was annoying, motivated by the argument that these issues would only concern the boys, because they were "things of the boys" that they would have to solve themselves. Even in the face of very heavy evidence, reported to the Postal Police, I often found the impotence and inadequacy of the family, the victim or the unawareness of the severity of the gesture by the executioners. But alive was the concern of the teachers, who intervened however in an episodic, fragmentary way, and on the basis of personal sensitivity. In short, there was a lack of deep sense, awareness and a certain will to interact with the problem; a hard battle to convince that the prevarications, the bullies and the aggressions, which often found their place of origin in the school and expanded through cyberbullying - the phenomenon we are talking about - involved the family environment and the social groups. Today, at last, we speak loudly of prevention and of the attempt to find a solution to the problem, as well as of taking charge of the problem itself. The draft law before us deals with this serious problem with a complex and complete vision, and we really hope that it will be resolved. Improving the safety of minors using the Network, with the intention to cope with this emergency in a serious way, focusing on prevention and contrast, is the objective of the bill that I fully share, particularly in the point that deals with the need to support the training - and I stress the word training - of the school staff, starting from the first grade secondary to continue in the following years, working in synergy between school and school networks, ASL and Forces of Order. It is necessary to give the school and the families the tools of knowledge of the phenomenon, so that they can recognize it and intervene correctly, offer the necessary support in the activity of denunciation and prepare the help to the child through professional figures that we have built and identified with this bill. And it is by no means true that they are not there, because they are precisely identified, and the school must have the availability of them and must be able to proceed with the training of staff. At this point I respond to my colleague Mr Mussini: two million euros are not few and have been made available to the school for training on cyberbullying. Therefore, it is not at all true that training and funding have not been considered. Training and information initiatives will be there and less bad that, through the so-called good school, we finally talk about training not only as right-duty and as a hypothetical area, but also as a binding and real element. Finally it will be training to the full also on this very delicate theme. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u20	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u21	Mr President, before I go into the matter, I would like to take this opportunity, since today is 20 May, to ask if we can find time in the afternoon to observe a minute's silence in memory of the earthquake that struck Emilia-Romagna in 2012, because nothing has ever been the same in those places. As far as cyberbullying is concerned, first of all I thank you for the work done with this bill, which certainly represents a step forward, even if it is only a start. Cyberbullying and bullying, in fact, are growing strongly, especially in the context of the female gender, and I add unfortunately. By the way, not only are they on the increase but they are also showing up in increasingly low age groups. If they were previously only present among teenagers, we now see them appearing even in groups of children aged three to five years. This is very serious and that is why we should ask ourselves about the society we are building. Cyberbullying and bullying, however, are only symptoms, of the bad symptoms that must surely be cured, but they remain symptoms and must be addressed as such. It must be addressed, that is, the symptom, but then also everything that leads to it. We cannot consider the problem exhausted if we consider only the symptom. We must ask ourselves why such phenomena exist. First of all, cyberbullying - it is true - is more widespread and global, because it is on the Net and it is certainly more difficult, then, to completely remove the material. But that is not only the problem of the virtual world. The virtual world is a serious problem, because all the emotional and emotional investment of children is concentrated on it, which is therefore taken away from the real world and let die because no one cares about it anymore. And that means that the real world is getting worse and worse. I am thinking of our historical centers and schools: for children the real world is as if it no longer existed; everything - especially emotional investment - is made in this virtual world, so the real world is left by them to die. This is a serious problem, on which we must certainly ask ourselves, in order to understand how to change society, so that this does not happen again. There is another problem that concerns cyberbullying and bullying, that of the mass media, which does not concern such tools in itself, but the fact that these are a mediation of the masses, which leads us to the inability to be connected with people. I am thinking of families where, instead of sitting around a table talking, one stands side by side, silently, watching television. This means mediating the masses: removing the direct relationship between people, letting them only be mediated by an instrument. At a time when people are no longer able to relate, how do we think they can understand the problems of their children and children, helping them overcome those problems of cyberbullying or bullying that are centered on the inability to relate? The problem here becomes society: it is useless to send everything to the world of school, which is certainly fundamental to take charge of this too, but it is not the only piece of society that must educate children, which will therefore be the society of the future. All adults must take care of children and children, who will be our future society, the one that will then take care of us, when we are older. We cannot pass it all on to the school, but it is essential that it be taken on board: it is just as important that the whole of society should take on the role of setting an example. The problem of setting an example is great, because in words we are all good at saying that we have to do it, but then in reality what is done? Everyone thinks about his own, instead of thinking about the community. I take an example also of politics: how do we think, as adults, of setting an example in politics, if then, when we are here, instead of thinking of the common good, we think of that of our pockets or of being good to us, without making the others who sent us here feel good to do just that? I am thinking in conclusion of another very simple example, with reference to what the Government has been doing lately on the pension bonus. What is the example that we give our children, in facing life, when a government that has to give money back to pensioners, instead of giving them all back, gives them only a part of it, even pretending that it is a gift, while they should have been? To set an example means that each one of us - not the others - must do so and not just in words. Unfortunately - or luckily - the kids still watch what they do, not what they say: the smaller they are, the more they look at behavior, not words. In urging you all to keep it in mind, I remind myself first of all that setting an example is the most important thing, then everything else comes. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Ferrara Elena.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u23	Mr President, I very much welcome the debate and - I hope - the rapid adoption of the text of the law under consideration, with which Senator Ferrara gave us all the need to address an urgent issue. There is no greater urgency than to guarantee the well-being, safety and physical and mental health of our children and minors. I am thinking above all of those who, by attending Italian schools, are actually put by families in the availability of public structures that have the duty to monitor to the full what is born and happens within the school and reverberates also in external behaviors, so that it is marked by positive growth and not by a malaise, discomfort or suffering. The theme of cyberbullying concerns precisely this passage from inside to outside and the external projection of dynamics that arise in the concrete, real and material relationship, often within the school walls, and then they project into an uncontrolled virtual reality, which therefore escapes the possibility of management by educators, schools, families and institutions. At a time when we are talking about cyberbullying, we are dealing with two different aspects that intersect in a single phenomenon: one aspect concerns the issue of bullying and therefore a particular projection of its dynamics, the other concerns the management of phenomena that occur within the Internet. On this second floor, on this front we are particularly far-fetched. We legislators are. This is demonstrated by the fact that in recent months more and more occasions we have been dealing with phenomena that, taking place on the Net, take the legislator unprepared, because they take place in forms and ways not previewed, uncoded, not manageable within the current legislation. I remember, for example, the specific rules that we passed a few weeks ago on terrorism, the recruitment of terrorists via the Internet; I remember an issue that is being discussed at this time in the Chamber of Deputies, that of online defamation on we questioned, we discussed and divided ourselves on how to manage that particularity of the Network (for example, the perpetual permanence of content); I remember, again, the issue related to denial and racial and ethnic discrimination that also take place on the Net (in this regard, we included in the bill on negationism a passage interrogating us on how to intervene on that front). The bill we are examining today deals very much with this aspect and we are thinking about how to light a beacon on a phenomenon that escapes our vision, our control because it escapes our knowledge. We also questioned how to govern, including through bans, sanctions, limitations, access of children, boys, girls to the Network that can represent for them a terrain of danger, pitfalls, risk for their own safety and their own well-being. Then there is the other aspect that I believe concerns the emergence of bullying phenomena. It is clear that there is an assonance between what happens on the Net and what happens in reality. I have carefully read Senator Mazzoni's draft law and the amendments he has tabled which he proposes to extend to bullying, in general, the forecasts contained in this draft law. I agree that we also need to intervene on the issue of bullying in general, but I believe that this is not the place, also because I believe that, with respect to cyberbullying, we need rules, limits, sanctions, controls that allow us to guard a terrain that is unknown to us today and, however, unattended; as far as bullying is concerned, instead, it is not about prohibitions, sanctions, limitations that we can intervene: we must intervene on education, on the ability to understand what are the reasons for bullying, the causes, and the dynamics that are taking place. The sponsor for childhood and adolescence Spadafora on the occasion of the meeting at the Commission on the protection and promotion of human rights in which the issues of bullying and cyberbullying were discussed told us that there are two main causes of bullying: ethnic, geographical, religious origin (bullying against children or immigrant children) and homophobic bullying that is aimed at gay girls and boys, lesbians or uncertain about sexual orientation, gender identity or, simply, not adhere to gender stereotypes. In addition, Senator Ferrara (as well as my experience and scientific literature) rightly confirms that, for example, the physical aspect is a fundamental element that triggers phenomena of bullying. It is clear that these are not random elements of promotion, of provocation of the act of bullying which - it must always be clarified - is not any act of violence, of prevarication of a girl against another boy or vice versa. It is rather that phenomenon that unleashes when the group joins against the individual. When a group of children joins against the individual, it is not because of the malice of the members of the group, but because it establishes a mechanism of promotion and production of one's identity that passes from the construction of identity through the group. This is what happens at teenage age to all boys and girls. And like any building of identity, this mechanism also passes from the construction of a non-identity, that is, from the construction of an enemy identity, of the identity of the other, of the identity to be avoided. Therefore, male identity is based on homophobia, as ethnic identity is based on the act of racism against those who do not correspond. And also the physical identity of evolving boys, who are changing their bodies taking on another physical dimension, as well as psychic, during the growth and the puberal period and during adolescence, is based on the act of violence, exclusion, malice against those who have a different physical appearance from the norm. School must intervene, through an equal education policy, to overcome stereotypes, to build a culture based on plurality. I have listened carefully to Mr Mussini's speech, which I share in everything, in the letter and in the spirit, except in a passage. When she said that schools already do all this, I tell her that some schools do it as well as some teachers, but the Italian school as a whole is not doing all this. And the interventions promoted by the Ministry of Education on this front are absolutely insufficient. The site "Demount the Bully" was mentioned earlier. But that site is updated with a six-monthly periodicity, to be lucky. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] I mean, it's a site that's been dead for years and that's had some kind of revitalization lately. Thirty-three senators in this House have been waiting for a year and a half for a reply from the Ministry of Education to an urgent question asking what has happened to intervention on the education axis of the strategy for preventing homophobic discrimination in schools. It is a strategy that has remained underground and underwater for a long time, and of which the results are still unknown today. If we really want to make sure that our children overcome this situation in which the construction of their life path is based on an act of violence against the other, we must intervene in schools with educational tools, teaching the beauty of diversity, the richness of confrontation with those who have a different religion, with those who have a different sexual orientation, with those who have a different physical, social and personal situation. This is one of the main bets that lies at the basis of any intervention, such as today's one, absolutely necessary and appropriate, that will also try to put in place technical measures for the containment of a phenomenon that either is eradicated on the basis of a true cultural and social action, or is destined to continue to remain and to ask the legislator for further limits and additional stakes. But this is not the priority way to address a topic that concerns the building of the identity and personality of the boys and girls who are entrusted to the state when families send them to our schools. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u24	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I participated a long time ago in the presentation of a book by Eugeny Morozov entitled 'Internet will not save the world', being always curious about the diversity of people and their opinions, because it is well aware that better things are born from comparison and difference. We know, in fact, and unfortunately, that dissent is usually ignored, until, if it is no longer possible to do so, it is denigrated. Although I do not share the negativity that the same scholar emphasizes about the Network and technologies, I have perceived the importance of the attention that we must give to it, to the good or to the evil that leads us and which has led many of us present in this House, who continue to make a very unscrupulous use of it, both from the political point of view and above all from the neurolinguistic communicative point of view, perhaps ignoring the real weight of the same. Let's ask ourselves the question: how do we use the Network? What example do we set for our boys? Let us immediately ask this question to understand that indeed, as the introductory report suggests to the draft law that is being discussed here, many of us, like the same guys we want to protect or stop, have a clear inability to assess the seriousness of the actions carried out online. At least I hope so, as a mitigating factor in what we see and experience in recent times, along with many of you. If bullying is already a scourge, cyberbullying is its augmented reality. Here today, in this House, just a few days after the elections, it seems that we want to take a decision on this matter, with a bill of six articles and 325 lines, where prevention and contrast are actually delegated to other working tables, in which we will have to trust. I also note that, if we give the 265,000 euros planned for 2015 to the approximately 8,000 first grade secondary schools, we have about 30 euros in middle school and I don't think we can buy even a protection tool for a school server at that amount. But how many overtime commissioners have you given here to truckloads of money? How many did we give trucks of euros? Albert Hirschman argued that all progressive reforms generally attract conservative criticism based on three themes: perversity (i.e. intervention only worsens the problem in question), futility (the intervention does not produce any results) and, last but not least, putting at risk (the intervention endangers the results achieved so far with great difficulty). Although I consider myself softly progressive I fear a great deal in our case for the second, futility and that is why. Despite the legislative approach of control and guidance, which in this case I will support anyway, I want to point out the weakness and lightness of the law that delegates as always, outside these walls, the deepening and the true legislation of the fight against the phenomenon of bullying and cyberbullying, without making bold decisions clear and sanctioning or imposing protection systems and automatic algorithms of signaling to the main social networks, already equipped with these technologies. It is true that the habeas corpus must be accompanied by the habeas data and that, therefore, caution is needed in the use of data and information, in order not to precipitate into the dictatorship of the algorithm, but it is also true that we are not faced with virtual people, but with physical persons and even more, fragile people, as minors and, in most cases, minors with characteristics of easy social, mental or health discrimination. Behavioral regulation is necessary and in this need different types of register regulators can be used according to Brownsword (professor at the University of London): moral, prudential or practical. If prevention through practicability, which consists essentially in putting in place the automatic blocking of certain situations can be criticized (even if I do not believe in this case), a correct control action can be, in particular for the categories we are talking about, useful and indispensable. In fact, this is possible and I hope that the technical table is up to the task, without leopoldism or anything like that. In fact, the analysis of Facebook, Twitter and Google's network and information traffic could, through the algorithms already in possession of these companies and already used for the search for paedophiles and terrorists, also lead with extreme simplicity to find cases of cyberbullying as well as, heard, to predict them. To the unbelievers who speak of difficulties, thinking that the Net serves to sell only books, dvds and to contain revolutionary crowds, I remind you that there are already systems like Shot Spotter, in Oakland, California, and PredPol in Los Angeles, employed for the analysis and predictive of criminal episodes through the use of Network technologies, precisely. The bill talks about tables and committees, with the involvement of device manufacturers, software and services with the use of quality brands. Let's hope it's not the usual creation of useless and unproductive groups, with the issue of new certified practices and other gabelle sticking to our portfolios, enriched by the usual row of "blah blah" and terms such as "identification", "procedures", "standard" etc. I read a passage from the bill: "a quality mark in favour of providers of electronic communications services" and for manufacturers of applications that allow the protection of minors or are able to implement practices to track the content disseminated by children. This could be acceptable, but even more so, as has already been said, a clear action taken with the main social networks that allows the recognition and automatic reporting of critical situations to the agencies in charge, aiming, as it seems to be the intention of the law, at the elimination of all data concerning the child, that is to say the so-called dynamic protection of personal data, that is the " cyberprivacy," which is in fact the right of all, also enshrined in Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. On the other hand, as regards the quotation of electronic devices, it seems rather absurd that a device manufacturer should somehow ensure that his or her mobile phone or camera is not equipped with applications that promote cyberbullying, but we can also accept this latter case. The important thing is that everything is not seasoned by the usual economic hypocrisies, the same ones that often derive from the anonymity of the users a great source of economic livelihood, due to their number and their clicks. We also have experts here. It is an economy of the Network concerned in most cases only to the sale of commercial products, stimulated by sellers called "influencers " and by computer systems creators of consent, where the user - the "customer" - loses his identity and passes from the circus of false opinions to that of free of charge offenses. This is the main point: the distorted cultural orientation that our society is taking with regard to certain systems of communication on the Net and not. The violence to the person perpetrated by subjects who, protected by the fake anonymity of a digital uterus, do not even realize their own danger. A terrible pillage that many children have not endured, driven to suicide by the amplification that the Network gives to evil suffered. Their suicide was not virtual, but - I shudder in saying it - it was real. If the school is in first place, then there are the first leaders. If we cannot talk about the responsibility and inability of children in assessing the seriousness of the actions carried out, then we must talk about the poor presence and inability of the school to act in time in the face of these situations. Not only that: we also talk about poor knowledge of web tools by the same school, especially from the sociological and psychological point of view. Sometimes it is the same school that facilitates the dissemination and use of online tools without properly responsible minors and without indicating what are the good practices of the Network; we are only concerned that there is the availability of Wi-Fi, giving the possibility to children to freely access materials not suitable for them. In this sense, I would like to point out that some far-sighted principals have already addressed the problem, banning the use of mobile devices at school, attaching cyberbullying to the source, without waiting for yet another table or technical committee to give a clear address on the videos and photos that children see. [[The microphone light starts to flash.]] May I conclude, Mr President? May I have this grace? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I already gave her an extra minute: let's not exaggerate. Just hold on a second, so I'll arrange to finish quickly. So let's start from us, from our culture, trying first to teach our children those rights that are also outside of cyberspace and doing something more than a technical table, that is, giving good advice and examples of life to our children. We act immediately as teachers, educators and operators in schools at the first sign of bullying, without looking elsewhere, without waiting for things to get worse and end with these lies and the violence of which we load the information on the Net with only one goal: whether you talk about it or click on a site. We avoid the media clowns of the leaders and new masters Manzi on the contrary (with all respect for the people of cattle and teachers). Mr President, I would like the remaining part of my speech to be published in the Annex to the Reports of today's sitting, so that anyone who wants to do so can read it. I hope that this measure, to which I shall give my vote, is not the usual law made lightly. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX, Mixed-ILC and Mixed Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u26	The Presidency shall authorise you to deliver the intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u27	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u28	Mr President, allow me to thank my colleague, Mrs Ferrara, who, with so much work and in many months, has brought to the attention of all of us and of our country the draft law under consideration, which has certainly collected a need that is no longer derogable. For this I feel very strongly the need to thank you. The measure of which we are discussing today certainly allows our society to take a great step forward in respect of the development of the human person and the actions of contrast towards violent practices, albeit carried out by telematic means. The intentions and proposals that the bill supports go in a precise direction: to combat and repress in an appropriate and proportionate way a phenomenon that unfortunately increasingly represents a constant threat, first and foremost for the new generations. Cyberbullying, in fact, insinuates with subtle ways among our children and undermines even deeper than bullying those values on which they base their personality. I say this because often the legislator is accused of not being up to date, of intervening only to ratify something that civil society has already become aware of. Well, in this case we intervene in a concrete and decisive way on the side of the containment of the phenomenon, on the need to address precisely the procedures relating to how to combat cybernetic bullying. Therefore, the law provides in an optimal way the operating tools to counter this form of bullying, such as the instance that can be invoked to the owner or the operator of an internet site by those who see their rights harmed with the possibility to resort to the guarantor of privacy in case of inertia. Alongside the procedural side there is a line of intervention by the integrated and structured state, which involves the involvement of national institutions and schools. The action plan drawn up by the technical table set up by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers has precisely this function: to analyse the phenomenon as a whole, to monitor the progress of the instruments of prevention and repression, to allow concrete interaction between the various competences that can help achieve the common objective. Support measures in schools, such as the promotion of a conscious use of the Network or training courses for children and teachers, are also important steps in the direction of awareness and training. However, the public task is only a part of the whole, it does not exhaust the issue or the displeasure about it. Parliament shall carry out its tasks where its competence falls. Predicting the protection of victims and preventing them is the task of a legislative assembly, but the other fundamental aspect - and I would like to insist on this in my brief speech - is to educate people about respect for others and dialogue. This is a primary task of every educator and therefore in the first instance of the family nucleus. I would like to dwell on this. We talked a lot about school, but I think the first educational agency is that of the family. It is the family that must question the motivations that push the boy to act as a bully or as a cyberbully, to know how to recognize the first signs and, if it rises, to know how to fight as soon as possible every manifestation, with all the necessary instruments, but first of all with listening. I am referring to listening, to attention, to knowing how to recognize the other: in one word, to knowing how to build relationships within the family and to knowing how to do so also outside it. This is a sine qua non for building now - not in 20 or 50 years' time, but now - a more just and welcoming society and is conducive to the best possible law that this Parliament has the possibility and the duty to do, as we are doing. It is therefore from the families that starts the whole educational process and, therefore, the need to make their children understand that nature is beautiful because it offers so many different aspects. Nature offers a wide, huge range of diversity: these are all beautiful, interesting and, above all, to be respected. I say this precisely because often the victims of cyberbullying are not only boys or girls with different religious orientations, or sex; they have not only a different color of the skin or a physical form that does not correspond to the definitions and guidelines that have been launched in the field of fashion. The actions of cyberbullying hurt above all - I say this with extreme pain and I think that all of us, as educators, first of all, in here, we have to take charge of them - those people we define with different abilities. We must educate our children to understand that every person brings a wealth, even if otherwise skillful, as we call it, that people with disabilities have exactly the same rights as all others and that often, especially because of these problems, they must be loved and helped even more and not ridiculed or be the object of ridicule. If we go to verify what the MIUR tells us in the lines of orientation on cyberbullying, it turns out that often this phenomenon sees as victims the children with disabilities, those who are more fragile and defenceless because they are easier to laugh and to harass. In this House, we have repeatedly talked about the problem of people with autistic spectrum: they are even more affected, precisely because they have difficulty in relating to each other and expressing their discomfort. So let us educate our children to know how to value all this and respect them. If we are doing this today with a rule, which is important and fundamental, it is not enough, however, if we do not start from what is propaedeutic to every rule, namely the respect and recognition of the other. We must do this ourselves: we parents, we educators, first. Then the school will do it and we will do it together at the school. This, however, must begin with us. I want to stigmatize the hope that exists in this bill, for which I am grateful to our rapporteur and to those who have worked with her throughout this process. I am referring to that trust that is expressed to our boys and our girls; so much confidence in them. Look, it expresses itself when we seek their solidarity, when we want to team up with them and not hear them, just don't recognize them, not pay attention to them. So, what does this bill say in article 4, paragraph 2? I read exactly: "The promotion of an active role of students in the prevention and contrast of cyberbullying in schools." Who knows better than them? Who can be the first to report this discomfort? Let's educate our children to tell and say; let's educate them not to be forgetful and to help their comrades. They will if we prove that we have faith in them. This is also said, in this bill, that it will not be the best in the world, as I have heard, but it is certainly a great step forward. Another measure of confidence is the one contained in the same paragraph: the provision of support and re-education measures for the children involved. They are our children and responsibility must not be sought elsewhere, we begin to read in ourselves and to understand where we have wronged, what we have not done and what we have not been able to grasp. Guys can be helped to be recovered, we don't seek solely punitive measures, but we seek recovery measures and when, if not in this evolutionary phase, our guys can be recovered? I put as the centre of my speech, in conclusion, the need for the re-evaluation of the report and the need to invest in trust and to help our children, starting to listen to them and listen to what they tell us carefully, looking them in the eyes and not watching the news or changing the phone, because the message that comes to us at that moment is the most important thing in the world. Right now, I'm talking to my son, and meeting my son is the most important thing in the world. I tell myself as a parent and an educator, and I think we can all tell each other, that we can help tell each other. We start from support for the family: the family must be helped and supported by every means, we inform the families, make them stronger with the educational and training paths that we can create with all the structures that are present in our territories. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u29	Senator Orrù is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law that we are dealing with today, entitled "Provisions to protect minors for the prevention and the contrast of the phenomenon of cyberbullying" at the first signature of my colleague Senator Ferrara, who I have convincedly signed, comes to fill a regulatory vulnus on the subject of cyberbullying which, unfortunately, in recent years has seen a worrying and dramatic increase with many isolated cases that have led young lives to death or to be marked forever. This regulatory intervention contains very important innovations in itself. First of all, there is finally a legislative and organic framework that allows young people and adults to rely on the most necessary protection and regulatory reference. Secondly, as President Finocchiaro rightly pointed out during the oral report, it is primarily aimed at the interests of minors strictly outside the area of criminal law. As has already been widely pointed out, the use of the Internet is now crucial to immediately have news and connect to every part of the world. In my time, research was also carried out on books in the library, a place that allowed comparison, socialization and sharing. With the advent of the Internet, there is the immediate possibility to acquire information and to know everything with a click and even if the terms used today are the same as then, such as "sharing" and "socialization" all this happens without being able to look into the eyes. As in any technological innovation that represents a means of improving life, it is the use that is made of the medium that determines its advantage or damage. And the web doesn't escape this elementary rule. In the case of distorted use, and therefore in cases of cyberbullying, it is precisely the immediacy that subjects the victim to uncontrolled and uncontrollable media mortifications and humiliations. The term cyberbullying - relatively recent - is a neologism that indicates the phenomenon of aggression by a subject called cyberbullying which, on the Net and mainly through social networks, affects the victim through the spread of denigratory material (texts, photos and images) or the creation of groups against. It has been pointed out several times in previous interventions that the phenomenon is linked to the increasing use of new media among children and preteens, defined as digital natives. The Network is in fact, in many cases, a place outside the control of adults and, unfortunately, also of children themselves; the children carry out real violent, denigratory and discriminatory actions against peers perceived "different" in terms of physical aspect, clothing, sexual orientation, social class or because foreigners and, unfortunately, in many cases as suffering from disabilities. But if in real bullying the victim is involved in repeated direct attacks (predicting physical or verbal aggressions) or indirect (predicting gossip and exclusion from the group), in cyberbullying aggressiveness takes place by exploiting in a dangerous and dysfunctional way the technological tools and their potentialities, all. Those who practice cyber-bullying do not always declare their true identity and act hidden by a nickname making the phenomenon more dangerous, insidious and serious. The phenomenon of cyberbullying has long been known to be serious, so much so that the European Commission has set up a special table to promote the safe and responsible use of new media among the youngest, also in accordance with Decision No 1351/2008/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 on a multiannual programme for the protection of children using the Internet and other communication technologies. A research carried out in 2013 by IPSOS, for Save the children, recalled in the bill, has emerged that two thirds of Italian minors recognize cyberbullying the main threat that hangs over them and that, precisely because of the nature of the medium used, has no boundaries of time and space: from school benches to their own room, to the football field, day and night. For so many of them, cyberbullying also compromises school performance. The most recent chronicle testifies to recurrent tragic events that have seen the involvement of young teenagers, unfortunately confirming what emerged in the investigations carried out. The nature of the victims shows how much the criteria of choice refer in many cases to a presumed diversity; in many of these cases, they are also very serious crimes. However, children often lack a complete awareness of the seriousness of the actions carried out, also because of the ease of access and use of the Network and the condition of anonymity, which also gives the illusion of non-persecubility. A particular gravity, given its consequences, can have the web of images related to the intimate sphere, in real time, without the perception of the risks and dangers related to the phenomenon of child pornography online. Problems with the use of the Internet for bullying are compounded by the difficulty of deleting images, comments and contributions from the Network. The Postal Police and the companies that manage the major social networks have a series of technical tools to counter the phenomenon, but the innovative speed of the new media creates considerable difficulties in the control action. The most critical issues regarding the protection of personal data and the fight against the criminal use of the Network are precisely when it comes to children and young people. In this regard, an agreement has been signed at European level with the major social network management companies to improve the safety of minors using the Network and to address the potential risks to young people, such as adult solicitation, online bullying and disclosure of personal information. A self-regulation that unfortunately is not easily monitored to date. Cyberbullying, by now it is known, is nothing more than one of the tips of a unfortunately deep and rooted iceberg, which finds its origins from a youthful condition briefly enclosed in the definition of "minor disorder." Defining and restricting the phenomenon of juvenile, juvenile discomfort is not simple nowadays, because the phenomenon follows, and sometimes precedes, the complex dynamics in today's society, where the growing global economic, social, valoristic difficulties, the loss of strong, safe, lasting bonds, invest first of all the children, the children, the first victims of an epochal change that has not yet found or found firm points and strong relational relationships between the various components of society. The forms that the child's discomfort takes are multiple, in relation to a large number of variables: the territorial context in which we operate, the place of intervention, the characteristics of the child and the intervention strategy. The widespread difficulty of relationship with peers and adults is transversal to different socio-economic belongings and assumes the forms of bullying, individualism that can degenerate into isolation, emotional anesthesia and lack of empathic ability, difficulty of communication with peers and relationship with the adult. A new and alarming fashion among young people is binge drinking i.e. drinking high amounts of alcohol just to challenge yourself via the web and get out of the way. From data collected by the National Alcohol Observatory of the Higher Institute of Health, about 775,000 under eighteen last year consumed alcoholic beverages, in practice one in five among males and one in six among females. It is precisely these days the start of the campaign by the Ministry of Health to stem the dangerous phenomenon. The problem of widespread discomfort is not only of minors: often, indeed, the malaise of children, as has been said previously by some colleagues, is the alarm bell that reveals the difficulties of families, of the local community, of institutions. In fact, not infrequently, at the root of the bullying behaviors of the children there is a poor family climate or because it is too permissive and tolerant or because too coercive, an effective prevention work should be developed through proper co-responsibility of the parents. In this context, in times when the external stresses, real and virtual, subject the minors to an ever faster, increasingly contrasting and sometimes contradictory course, it becomes absolutely priority to recover that implicit and virtuous bond between family and school, between aggregational activities and sport, a bond that seems broken and difficult to re-connect, but that can be the real key of time to protect and overcome the thousand aspects of child discomfort to which our children are subjected today. This bill is, in this sense, an important instrument and for this reason I still thank my colleague, Mrs Ferrara, who, with great determination and generosity, has strongly promoted its calendarization and approval. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, I would ask that the remaining part of my speech be added to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u31	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u32	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u33	Mr President, bullying is a widespread social phenomenon, synonymous with a relational discomfort that is manifested mainly among adolescents, but certainly not confined to any category, either social or even less personal. It evolves with age, changes shape and in adulthood we will find it in many, too many social, work and family prevarications. It is a phenomenon closely linked to that of cyberbullying, a term by which we identify the aggressive and intentional actions carried out through a distorted use of new technologies by a single person or a group, which aim deliberately to harm a peer, almost always unable to defend themselves. These actions are repeated over time, amplifying the mechanisms proper to bullying, as the victim cannot directly control the attacks he suffers on the net, nor do there exist limits of time or space related to episodes of violence. The data is clear, two out of five kids are victims of cyberbullying. 61 percent point out that social networks constitute the preferred attack mode that usually affects the victim through the dissemination of photos and images denigratone or the creation of groups "against". Four out of ten children are witnesses of online bullying against peers, which are explained by a condition of diversity that originates 67 percent from the physical aspect, 56 percent from sexual orientation, 43 percent from being foreign. The school remains the place where such episodes begin and then move to the network. The legislator must therefore intervene. I thank Senator Ferrara for this because if there has been a long investigation in the Extraordinary Commission on Human Rights, it is because of her initiative. The actions needed to combat the phenomenon are primarily linked to a positive use of the Network, an important tool for the growth of children, to be used to the best by acting on the technical sphere, through a correct use and a greater awareness of the instruments of protection. It is also necessary to act on the emotional-relational sphere of children and adolescents and on the sphere of values, defining the principles underlying their behaviour. It is up to the school, as well as the family, to provide them with the skills necessary for proper use of the network, through the creation of guidelines and good practices. It is, however, a general approach which, at the moment, despite the existence of concrete projects and interventions at several levels, unfortunately has been missed in the Italian school. The teachers on the one hand are the watchmen who are able to grasp the discomfort of the victims and the situations in which they are involved, on the other hand they are an indispensable reference point to turn to for help, despite the obvious difficulty of breaking the silence and overcoming the shame. In 2007 the Ministry of Education intervened on the phenomenon of bullying by creating a free number and observers at the level of regional school offices. A specific site has also been created within a national campaign against bullying, cyberbullying, homophobic attitudes, gender violence and any other form of discrimination. We have already tried, in short, to activate intervention strategies aimed at avoiding serious consequences not only psychologically, but also criminally. Unfortunately, however, it should be noted that good words have hardly ever been followed by consistent ministerial behavior: since 2008, the funding needed to allow the smooth functioning of regional observatories on bullying has no longer been provided, even if in the various territorial areas the actions have continued on the impulse of individual schools or school networks. Now, at last, Minister Giannini has announced the allocation of EUR 2 million, which we hope are only the first, because absolutely insufficient. In order to understand the extent of the phenomenon of cyberbullying and the serious risks associated with it, it should be considered the fact that 99.1 percent of young people regularly use the Internet and 89.3 percent have a profile on a social network; 21.5 percent of children social networks are a tool for making new knowledge but also the occasion when the greatest risks are manifested. The data, very worrying, confirm the trends highlighted by the most recent facts of the news: as many as 12.5 percent of the sample recognizes that they have used social networks to spread offensive or threatening messages against peers; 13.6 percent of males and 8.1% of girls declare that they have humiliated other people with the spread of offensive materials and defamatory insinuations. Even more worrying are the data relating to the phenomenon immediately or of which the children are witnesses: 10 percent of the students questioned claim to have been the victim of the dissemination of information and personal images without their consent; 12 percent of the males and 16 percent of the females claim to have been the victim of insults, verbal assaults and threats; 12 percent report that others have sent messages and images in their own name; 31.4 percent of the interviewees have been witnesses or are aware of other students participating in racist or homophobic online groups; 30 percent are aware of or have been a direct witness of the spread of threatening messages by other students. In view of this very worrying picture, it is therefore necessary and urgent to intensify measures to prevent and combat all forms of violence and discrimination, for a correct and conscious use of new technologies, to offer methodological tools aimed at countering all forms of discrimination and achieving an effective contrast of the phenomena of cyberbullying, intolerance, homophobic bullying and gender violence. Precisely with regard to counter-cyberbullying activities, the Postal Police in recent years have taken great care of all forms of illegality on the net, a difficult job especially because of the speed and size of the phenomenon. There is no specific offence for the perpetrators of these acts, but it is possible to proceed by using already foreseen offences such as defamation or harassment. We are often faced with the digital identity theft carried out by young people to the detriment of other young people, which can lead to very serious crimes, but in children there is a complete lack of awareness of the actions carried out, also because of the ease of access and use of the network, which go hand in hand with the strong potential of the Internet. The extreme speed of the new social media also allows to make real everything that happens in virtual form. The habit of putting intimate images online, in real time, without the perception of the risks and dangers associated with the phenomenon of child pornography online, is now widespread. One of the most frequent conducts of cyberbullying, in fact, is to circulate intimate images of people as a form of spite or retaliation. Lately this behavior has taken on more serious dimensions and often images are put on the net as a real act of bullying. Eliminating them is virtually impossible, because their spread cannot be stopped or controlled. The Postal Police has a series of technical tools to counter the phenomenon, as well as multinational companies that manage the major social networks, which have put into the study immediate intervention mechanisms, such as the insertion of a red button to be used to block the dissemination of images or posts. The main tool for combating the phenomenon, however, is training, direct contact with children and educational and comparative activity in schools. In the light of all this, the bill that I have presented, which has been combined with that of Senator Ferrara, tends above all to foresee a concerted action of prevention and to encourage the correct use of the Internet through the introduction of courses for students and teachers and tax relief for those who spread cultural sites. It is expected that the Ministry of Education, University and Research will finance programmes aimed at the respect of the person and the protection of the psycho-physical integrity of children and adolescents, in particular in the school environment with campaigns to raise awareness and information on bullying and cyberbullying and neuropsychological disorders of childhood age aimed at students and their families, as well as training courses of school staff aimed at ensuring the acquisition of appropriate psycho-pedagogic techniques and educational practices to implement preventive action of bullying and cyberbullying within schools. Support programmes for children who are victims of bullying and cyberbullying and programmes to prevent discomfort for adolescents are also considered indispensable. Finally, there will also be greater responsibility for Internet access providers. The bill presented by me contains a sanctioning part; the bill presented by Senator Ferrara instead focuses more on prevention than punishment. In any case, it is a line on which we can surely find ourselves all. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u34	She is registered to speak Senator Mattesini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u35	Mr President, the draft law we are going to vote on today is particularly significant in the first place because it responds to the needs of children. According to data provided by Save the children in fact, two thirds of our kids believe that cyberbullying is the main threat in their lives. An important measure, therefore, for which I thank Senator Ferrara, not only for the topic she addresses, but also for how she addresses it. I would like to highlight two aspects. Firstly, that the measure is based on prevention by placing at the centre the training of school staff, of all school staff. This makes a big difference because cyberbullying in schools has already intervened but it has always been about projects that were born and then died. Founding prevention on the training of staff means choosing an effective and lasting way because training teachers in close collaboration with families and local institutions means that conscious education on the network will be a permanent activity, it will become a sort of DNA of school education. Moreover, with regard to the method, the definition of an integrated action plan, also through the establishment at national level of a technical table composed of various ministries and projected (as stated in the guidelines of the Ministry of Education) at local level is an absolutely important choice. I repeat the importance of the measure here also in response to the too many, ingenious criticisms that are read on the media, but above all on the web that have emphasized the uselessness of the bill declaring it, sometimes, also inappropriate. Those who have supported and still support this thesis have founded this opinion on the idea that the only things that serve against cyberbullying would be self-regulation initiatives that, among other things, are also on the run at European and international level and to which have already joined most of the managers of the big social networks platforms: from Google to Facebook, moving from Microsoft and Apple. They support, in short, these people that are essential, direct and sufficient is the commitment of managers through the adoption of reporting and control mechanisms. And how can we not agree with the recognition of this path of responsibility for social networks? It is important and it will certainly have to progress further, but with as much clarity I say that this is not enough, it is not enough. A law is necessary, this bill absolutely not based on sanctioning attitudes because it is a measure that does not criminalize the web: it is a bill based on prevention, on the cultural promotion of the conscious use of the network. It is a bill that in promoting the correct use of the network has something fundamental, because it puts individual and collective responsibility at the centre. It is not a measure based on coercive and punitive proposals, but on the promotion of a civic culture based on respect for itself and for others. Respect for oneself and for others: these are the words that dress the clothes of prevention and education, because without these words education and prevention would be empty words. That is the important challenge. Education to the conscious use of the network is not, will not be and must not be alone and only the implementation of a knowledge, a technique to defend or to defend children, but must carry out an equally important action. Obviously, it is necessary to know also the techniques, but just as important is the activation of an educational process of citizenship, to increase that awareness of the inseparable existence of rights and responsibilities, of the inseparable respect that everyone claims for himself and that must correspond to respect for others. It will have to be, and will be, a path that will help and support the construction of individual and collective identities stronger and less fragile, helping children to be able to respect those who, instead, are all too often lived as different today. Most of the episodes of bullying and cyberbullying are directed towards young homosexuals, disabled people and immigrants. And here I add nothing else, because I fully share the intervention of Senator Lo Giudice. I spoke of self-respect and respect for others, but why did I do it? I did it because we must not forget that two are the subjects damaged by cyberbullying. Certainly, in the first place and in a dramatic way, those who suffer it. People who in a short time see their reputation and image damaged, and in a very large community. The contents, in fact, once published, still today can reappear, on several occasions and in different places (I remember that two thirds of the children consider cyberbullying the main threat to their lives), and all this makes the victims insecure in all areas and moments of their lives. But I believe that even those who do it are the victims of cyberbullying, because violent, evil and bullying are not born. The explanation is that what you met, or did not meet, in your life has made us somehow fragile compared to the risk of activating such violent behaviors. If those terrible acts are carried out at twelve, thirteen, fourteen or fifteen years old, we should first of all ask ourselves why this happens. If, in fact, it is true that the anonymity of the Network pushes to carry out gestures that it would be difficult to carry out in other places and other spaces of life, it is also true that more and more, in the published videos, are well visible, not only the abused subjects, but also the authors, who exhibit, almost as a muscular test, their anger, their aggression, their own contempt for those who are mistreated and represented as weak and different. So there's something going on, and we should think about it. For this reason, too, I stress the importance of the proposal for a law placing the subject of school at the centre. European research also confirms that it is the school where more than 90% of bullying takes place. While I stress the importance of school, however, I also say that we have a duty not to delegate this issue to the children alone, to the schools alone and to the families who, moreover, must be helped to act together. This issue, in fact, calls in the first place, as many other colleagues, we adults, have said. It is we adults, not only as parents but the world of adults in general, who are responsible. We all grow and build our identity, not on the basis of the words we are told or the "pistolotti" that we receive in the family, but for the examples and situations, those that we live in the home but above all those that we see outside. We must reason on our responsibility and on what are, individually and collectively, the examples we live on in our daily lives. And I can think of the episode of these days, about the people killed because they are unable to live in that difficult climate of relationship within the condominiums. But what image do we give of the ability to weave relationships based on respect for oneself and for others? I'm deeply concerned about cyberbullying, but I'm also concerned about adult behavior. To give examples, I think of that group of parents who have all rebelled against the principal who suspended for four days the students of a class who had used a really terrible violence against a classmate on a school trip, during one of those nights when you get drunk, then posting the video of such violence on the web. Those parents, once they were called by the principal and became aware that their son had performed those acts, became angry with the principal and said that she was a girl and were concerned not that her children were capable of this violence but only that the suspension could harm the outcome of the school year. I say this also by referring to a survey developed in 2004 within the European anti-bullying network which concerned, on the one hand, the children who have undergone cyberbullying and, on the other hand, a group of 2,000 adults. The survey shows that 35 percent of children who have suffered cyberbullying have committed acts of self - injury, 55 have fallen into depression and 38 percent have thought of suicide. Here I cannot fail to remember the victims, those who took their lives, and the insurmountable pain of families. On the other hand, on the side of the adults interviewed, in the face of this fatigue that young people experience having undergone cyberbullying, do you know what comes out? 34 percent thought that basically acts of cyberbullying are a normal phase of growth, while 16 percent consider cyberbullying as something that forms character: in short, 50 percent of the adults interviewed do not have the right perception of the violence that suffers those who are subjected to cyberbullying and not even of the violence and discomfort that their children and children have. The world of adults must be reconnected with reality. Also for this reason it is essential that both in the bill and in the guidelines of the public education, which I remember has already financed with 2 million euros training interventions in the school, they are indicated as important subjects to involve also the families and all the institutions that have competence in education and in the accompaniment to the growth. Correct education on the Net helps overcome cyberbullying, but there is another important thing: the perception of the danger inherent in the misuse of the Network. I say this because it is important that the protection of minors is considered and perceived and stirs up as a collective responsibility that must be shared by parents, institutions and operators and the fight against cyberbullying cannot ignore the synergies of these forces and the conscious use of the web by everyone. That ministerial and territorial table will have to be inclusive and the training and co-formation of all the institutional and professional entities that will be part of it is essential. Not the formation disjoined, but the co-formation because only in this way is built not only an embankment to spread the phenomenon, but also a new common awareness that will also help to avoid other heavy consequences to those who use not correctly or unconsciously the web. We know that one out of every three children makes new acquaintances on the net, which are then realized by real relationships. I would like to point out a figure that has come out of the bicameral committee's survey of children's prostitution. I do not quote the figures at random, but because they were dramatically denounced in the opening of the judicial year. In large urban areas since last year, child prostitution has increased by 400 percent. Of this 400 percent, a very high percentage (almost 60 percent) is made through net lure. Therefore, a conscious and correct use of the network means not only helping overcome cyberbullying, but also avoiding other terrible damages that through misuse of the network increase child pornography and prostitution cases through online solicitation. I hope that the draft law that we adopted in the Committee on Institutional Affairs unanimously comes out of this House and will be adopted as quickly as possible in the House, so that, together with the Ministry's guidelines, which are already funded with insufficient but important resources (two million euros), it can really quickly activate not only an information journey but also that training path with respect to the fundamental respect for itself and for others. It is a path of promoting true citizenship, but also of promoting the fundamental element of the social question, that is, individual and collective well-being. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u36	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u37	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u40	AIROLA (M5S). I would like to invite the Presidency and the House to take up this very interesting debate on cyberbullying, especially because we have a Vice President of the Senate - Gasparri - who tweets obsessively compulsively, even to young people, perhaps overweight, calling them obese and fat. I therefore call on you to make it your own, addressing it also to adults and, above all, to the institutions. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Lo Giudice, Petraglia and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u41	As has already been said, we shall then proceed to the next item on the agenda, hoping that the technical report will arrive for the afternoon sitting, with reference to possible cover, because that is the sine qua non to proceed with the examination of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u42	The next item is the debate on document XXII- bis, No 1. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether she intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u43	Mr President, more than supplementing the report, I would like to retrace it very quickly. It is a full-bodied report and I therefore think it is appropriate to summarize it briefly. The Committee of Inquiry has been strongly desired by this House and its institution has been adopted almost unanimously, or perhaps unanimously. As I will try to demonstrate, the work that has been done by it is therefore a common heritage. First of all, I would like to point out that it has been called the Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation of local administrators, and that is the context in which we have moved. I would also like to point out, for those who did not mention it, that the objectives assigned to the Commission were as follows: to carry out investigations into the real size, conditions, quality and causes of intimidation against local administrators; to assess the nature and characteristics of the reasons which led to an increase in intimidation (which has been found, before the Senate and the Commission, by associations dealing with this subject); to verify the adequacy of the legislation in force in this field and its application; to ascertain the level of attention and the capacity of intervention of the central and peripheral authorities and public administrations, competent to carry out activities to prevent intimidation; to propose legislative and administrative solutions, in order to achieve the most appropriate prevention and the most effective countering of intimidation, in order to ensure the best and free exercise of the functions assigned to local authorities and administrators. First of all, I would like to thank the Heads of Group for the composition of the Commission. I am sure that the Permanent Commissions and the other Committees of Inquiry are also composed according to the criterion of competence and specific experience, but it has certainly been an added value for the present Commission, in addition to the work carried out outside, the fact that it is made up of people who have personal experience in this field: some members have also been subject to intimidation and in any case it is mostly directors who, from the outset of the Commission's work, have shown that they have a wealth of valuable knowledge, also in order to grasp the differences that we have then noticed in the territory. Among the members there are in fact senators who have been mayors of Municipalities scattered in various parts of the Italian territory, in which the phenomenon of intimidation is posing in a very differentiated way. First of all, I would like to take into account the considerable work we have done, since the text of the report is available to my colleagues. The Commission lasted about a year, having completed its work after eleven months, in which we acquired seven thousand pages of documentation, which is varied. Much of the documentation has also served to verify and the previous work carried out by other Commissions of investigation, to understand if in the past there has been attention to the phenomenon and how we have behaved in the past. Among the documents acquired, of course, there are also protective custody orders issued during the Commission's work or in any case in recent times. It is therefore a matter of material of various kinds. We have held hearings in the Chamber for thirteen hours and forty-seven hours of outside hearings; we have carried out six missions on the territory, twenty sessions of the Commission; we have auditioned Minister Alfano and former Minister Lanzetta, twenty-seven prefects, forty-one magistrates, sixty-three representatives of the Forces of the Order, fifty-two local administrators in office, three autonomous associations and three associations of citizens. In fact, we started our work precisely by the autonomous associations, because our attention on this phenomenon came after and follows a complaint activity - rather than of inquiry - conducted first by Legaautonomie Calabria (of course in the territorial area of the Calabria Region) and then by Public Notice and also by ANCI. Therefore, we started from the work, of denunciation but also of knowledge, which they had done to deepen the whole. We went on to ask for information for a limited period, so the numbers I will provide are related to a very limited time span ranging from January 2013 to April 2014. We asked for information on the intimidating acts of the one hundred and six Italian prefectures and there has always been a strong collaboration with the Ministry of the Interior. I therefore welcome the presence of Deputy Minister Bubbico, who has been present at our work since the Commission's founding phase and who has supported, encouraged and followed our work very closely, which is therefore also the result of joint work. The prefectures have collaborated and we must say that they have also done so in a fair way: that is, we had to note that this issue was not for the attention of the Italian prefectures. We will see then that there will be a series of proposals, even in part agreed with the Ministry of the Interior and with the Deputy Minister Bubbico, that we do to make it cost the monitoring of the phenomenon. However, over the period - as I have already said - of one year and four months, until April 2014, which we had to fix because we could not investigate a phenomenon without time limits, the investigation covered the entire national territory. In the course of these works there has been a deepening, because as we listened above all to the autonomous associations there have emerged cases of murders that have opened this parenthesis, which has become so important that it does not configure itself as such. In other words, we wanted to verify in the last forty years (this is also a conventional term, because we had to give ourselves a temporal scope) how many murders have concerned the category of local administrators. Well, the murder cases that we have established with judicial or journalistic sources are 132; so today we can say that in the last forty years there have been 132 murders of local administrators in office or of candidates for local elections, then there have been eleven other murders of subjects other than local administrators (the father, the wife, the brother, the son) related to this phenomenon. I would like to point out this because in reality it was cases that were very often made known only in a restricted territorial area, while it is important and interesting to understand if there is a thread, if they are part of the phenomenon of intimidation. In fact, in the strict sense intimidation and murder are completely different things, but the cases not highlighted and not monitored of murder attest to a fact that is now irrefutable, that is the underestimation of this phenomenon that has been in general. Another phenomenon that emerged in the investigation is what we have defined as the dark figure. Clearly we have recorded cases of complaints made; we know that there are cases of intimidation not denounced, but we also know that among them there is a particularly aggressive and subtle type, that is, the one that gets as effect the resignation of the administrators. We found traces of this phenomenon and, of course, with an investigation that mainly concerned the decrees of dissolution for mafia and judicial acts, in twenty-one cases we found that the resignation due to intimidation followed the early dissolution of the City Council, not for mafia infiltrations, but for simple resignation (but, of course, in those cases it was obvious that there was interference on the will of the administrators). The most striking case was Rizziconi, where a protective custody order was issued against a whole series of subjects and there was a mayor who cooperated until he was defined by the local prosecutor as a hero. That's what we shouldn't want the mayors to be heroes. Among the other data and numbers that I can submit to your attention, I recall that, in 81 of the 254 decrees of dissolution of the Municipal Councils for Mafia, there is talk of intimidation and that, in 11 decrees, there is talk of murder. Therefore, the date of the murders (partially, only for 11 cases) was also highlighted in the dissolution decrees. In view of this situation and this strong underestimation which, of course, there has not been an adequate response so far, we can give another number, which also seems particularly difficult and unacceptable to me. I am referring to what Minister Alfano told us in the Commission: on the date of his hearing - it was July 2014 - 341 prevention measures were in place against local administrators. Like saying we don't monitor the phenomenon, or, better, we didn't monitor it. In fact, I hope - indeed, I am sure, from the news that we have and that Vice-Minister Bubbico will now tell us - that something is already changing (no one of us has stood still after this report and something has changed in the course of the report). However, against all this, there is absolute underestimation, but there are also 341 cases of active measures. There is, therefore, a use of forces and economic and human resources by the State to protect intimidated administrators. The State is therefore able to guarantee the security of administrators after intimidation, but has not so far been able to prevent or protect them in the course of their activities, so as to avoid reaching this point. 11:27 a.m. (The rapporteur was Mr Lo Moro). Let me turn to the subject of intimidation, which is the specific issue of the Commission of Inquiry. I have deliberately talked about everything else, because the context is unique and because no other phenomenon more than the murders attests to an understatement. In any case - we have also talked about this with colleagues who are present and whom I thank for their presence and attention - it is a striking fact to talk about 132 murders; I think that no other category has suffered so many losses. I close on this topic by saying that we wanted to tell the stories of these murders, because 132 murders, for what very often politics, as a whole, but also citizenship, think of that place of evil that is often identified and defined as such in the local agency (the territory), could seem and be read as 132 cases of collusion subjects, but it is not so. There are also cases - the stories, in fact, speak clearly - of collusive subjects or who have been victims of murder, so also of intimidation, for strictly personal reasons, but the stories we have told, for their great part, are stories of women - three women - and above all of men (because politics is mainly masculine, especially in the past), who have been intimidated because they had the courage to live with honesty their mandate. Among the women I want to remember one, which is a young woman from Apulia, who was killed while working with stubbornness on the general plan of her city and tried to defend her from mafia infiltrations. So, these are particularly brave men and women. We then focused, as was foreseen in our mandate, especially on the phenomenon of intimidation and there, of course, we also analyzed the causes of intimidation. We can say, in the meantime, that most of the phenomenon concerns small municipalities and the whole national territory, even if the numbers tell us that the phenomenon is located mainly in the South, but now it is also growing elsewhere. However, as far as the matrix is concerned, it is not always, in fact, in a rather low proportion of cases, organised crime, because most of the cases talk about something else. I also conclude on this point by saying that however the most affected administrators are the mayors, and this was intuitive, because especially after the new law that exposes the mayor a lot and almost makes him omnipotent in the eyes of the most, this becomes the most exposed subject, but very often there are also municipal councillors who have skills or do a particularly sensitive job or subjects of other kind. The other element that seems surprising, but on which we have to work a lot, because in some way it also affects the extent of the phenomenon, is that for 86 percent of the cases that we have analyzed, the processes that have been started have remained against unknown and therefore the cases have been archived tout court. This means first of all that there is obviously a sense of loneliness and insuffering also on the territory, because the mayor who is intimidated does not even have the stimulus to the denunciation (even if mostly necessarily denounced), because he ends up proving his weakness - as these things are often lived - to his territory, often without, on the other hand, being identified as responsible. There is no responsible person - and this has been said to us almost all: the magistrates, the prefects and the forces of order - because the majority of the administrators do not cooperate, so there is a short circuit, a break in the relationship of trust, but there is also other, because we must also be concrete and evaluate that the field of action of a mayor or a local administrator is so vast that it is not always easy to understand what is at the origin of the intimidating acts. We will see this especially when I come to illustrate the more detailed phase of the work we have done, in which we have tried to understand why these episodes happen and to what reasons they are connected. The motivations are often the most varied. However, these are reasons for differing responses. A very widespread case is for example the one related to demolitions: the mayor is left to demolish, often without resources neither economic nor human to do so, the properties illegitimately built on the territory, so to a large extent the demolitions are not done and then when the intimidating operation begins to take place. In the administrative field, therefore, we have isolated more areas in which action must be taken. In some cases of a general nature (on which, of course, the Commission has not made any proposals, for example as regards procurement), we have limited ourselves to pointing out the critical issues, because many intimidations are related to procurement and general planning in the territory, but where we have been able to isolate specific cases on which we could intervene, we have pointed them out on time, hoping - and indeed working as a Senate for this to happen - in more precise legislation on certain specific facts. Another example could be that of compulsory health care. There was not only the case of the mayor of Catania, who was striking, but there have been more cases of subjects who do not recognize the mayor's authority to issue an order for a forced hospitalization in a psychiatric hospital department - if a doctor does it it is one account, if one politician does it is another - and then react by identifying the mayor as an opponent. I could continue with the examples, because there are so many cases in the report that we have enucleated. At the end of this speech, of course, we came to an end with proposals, which were drawn up in a motion for a resolution tabled by the Heads of Group. We have proposed organizational measures that often do not require even legislative passages and that there is also some newness from the Government. There are corrective actions on individual sectors that have been identified (cave, demolition, gambling), for which only measures are needed. Finally - and I would like to mention this last because all the members of the Commission have signed it - there is a bill in criminal matters, signed by all the members of the Commission, deposited at the same time as this debate, on something that we believe should be amended. The investigations are difficult, there is no collaboration, but at the basis of everything we used the concept of intimidation as a sociological rather than technical category. The acts of intimidation are all the acts that aim to intimidate and bend the will of an administrator, but within these acts, apart from particular events (such as, for example, in Brindisi a case qualified as stalking or in Gioia Tauro and Rizziconi a case qualified as extortion), the cases are qualified with the criminal norms available to the magistrates and the Forces of the order (damaging, personal injury, threats, insults, defamation), with penalties that, beyond being sometimes inadequate in itself, do not allow the use of means of telephone interception or precautionary measures. We have therefore convinced ourselves, as the Commission, that intervention was also necessary, because the lack of legislation lies in the fact that these acts have lived and qualified as acts that offend the legal good (which may be the private good such as the machinery that is being set on fire) or the honor of the person or, in the case of injuries, the person himself. In any case, it is a question of a private qualification which escapes, because it is not taken into account, the fact that these are acts that are at least multi-offense, because they not only offend the individual who suffers them but, also and above all, the community that the administrator represents. We have therefore suggested an amendment to Article 338 of the Criminal Code, which concerns violence or the threat to a political, administrative or judicial body. We have not proposed a new rule, because in an age of decriminalization or simplification no new rules are made; but speaking today, as in the days of the Rocco Code, of violence or threat to a political body without reference to the individual components is anachronistic. We have also prepared a revision of Article 90 of the single text of the laws for competition and the election of the organs of the municipal administrations, because there was no provision for intimidation against candidates in the circumstances we are talking about. In the report we have also provided, and put in writing in the draft law, for an aggravating and special circumstance - crimes which may be challenged by the judge - in the event of damage to a local administrator, which has a significant impact on the sentence. The aim, in particular with the amendment of Article 338, is to make possible a whole range of testing measures. Moreover, an amendment to Article 380 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is also linked to Article 338: in the list of offences for which the arrest is expected in flagrant crime, we have also added the new wording of Article 338. These are the results of the Commission. In closing, I would like to thank the Group Leaders, as I have already done, for the Commission has greatly facilitated the work by being made up of particularly competent and qualified senators, whom I thank all, without any exclusion. I would also add, even though it is known to the House, that the work of the Commission has been constantly attended by the parliamentary groups, so the work I am presenting as rapporteur today is collective and also comes from the merit and ability of individual groups and members to work together. The final vote was not only formal but also substantial, because all the groups felt represented by this report which, especially in its conclusions, was written after a debate in which we discussed the scaffolding and, indeed, the conclusions. It seems to me, therefore, that we have done a job to look at as a possible path to the future. I also believe that reconstructing the history of the violence that often bloody or in any case offend the territories was the task that had been assigned to us by the Senate, a task for which we thank the institution because with it they redeem and rebuild important truths and this is the work that we give you. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, we salute the representatives of the private law company specialized in vocational training Formalba di Valmontone, in the province of Rome, who are witnessing the Senate's work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u45	I declare the debate open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Angioni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u46	Mr President, I believe that the investigation carried out by this Commission wanted, first of all, to represent the senate's concern for the phenomena described, in addition to our closeness to all those administrators who are victims of them even potentially. From this point of view, a better knowledge of what is happening in the country and the search for tools that, if not totally combat can at least mitigate, limit, limit such phenomena, I think it is the best action that the State can take to be closer to the citizens. Among other things, defending not only the safety but the prerogatives of public administrators means not only defending their human, family and social dimension but more generically, and in some respects also from a more delicate point of view, it means defending and protecting the freedom of democratic expression of every citizen who is represented by that administrator, directly or indirectly. It was good, therefore, in my opinion, to have set up this Commission and it was good the work that the Commission has also done, first and foremost, with the presentation of the draft law about which President Lo Moro spoke. This draft law certainly does not want to end the work of the Commission, it certainly does not want to conclude a path but if anything it wants to open it. It should be stressed, among other things, that the Commission's investigation shows that - not by chance - the problem of intimidation is greater in the regions where there are already problems of public order in a sensitive and widespread way, not necessarily of organised crime. In this respect, the social environment appears to be fundamental, rather than for the birth and spread of concrete criminal actions against individual administrators, in order to produce the social antibodies that can isolate and censor in the birth those actions, not only for mere expressions of solidarity to those who have been intimidated, but to recreate in the shortest possible time the best conditions for that administrator to exercise his mandate, in the most peaceful and peaceful way possible, and, together with this, the whole community finds itself square around those who have suffered intimidation, whatever political position it expresses. The strong and decisive contrast, even in cases that appear to seem entirely secondary, allows, among other things, to anticipate the degeneration of the phenomenon. The Commission has verified that, in some parts of the country, following the substantial victory of the Forces of the Order over organized crime - and I am thinking now for example of certain areas of Puglia - today intimidation can be the symptom of the recreating of a new criminal network, with different forms and references also compared to the recent past. The contrast to the phenomenon therefore anticipates even more serious and extensive problems, and this is even more true in the context of small and very small municipalities, obviously more fragile in dealing with problems that require structures and skills that often go beyond their dimension. There are regions - I say it as a Sardinian - in which administrators are particularly exposed to the phenomena we are talking about, especially in the very small municipalities, which are dissuaded of the organizational structures that would sometimes be necessary to address technical issues even difficult (which by citizens, wrongly or rightly, are perceived as the symptom of those responses that the public should give). Starting quickly at the conclusion, I would also like to point out that there are issues that, if they do not anticipate other problems, certainly become points of particular sensitivity for the individual administrator's path. Of all, I am referring to tenders, which are the instrument which, as is known, especially in certain territorial situations, creates particular expectation, on the part of not better specified organized structures. When the municipalities and, in particular, public structures cannot be decided in dealing with those situations, dark slopes open up with roads where equally dark forces can also creep in. From this point of view, I believe that we must minimise the maximum reduction in competitions, which are often or may be the source of opening up issues which, although not really organised crime, can lead to problems for administrators who deal with those issues. I should like to end by thanking the President for the work he has done which has enabled the Commissioners to be involved. Even today I believe we show our citizens that not only the Senate, but the country sees everything in the proximity that any public administrator should show, a fundamental search for the affirmation of the freedom of citizens, not only of expression, but also of the affirmation of their personality. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Gualdani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u47	Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by making a brief reference to my personal experience, since I myself have suffered serious threats when, during my term of office, I opposed the opening of new slot rooms within the municipal territory in the Bordighera City Council. It was certainly an operation forged by criminal organizations, unfortunately very present in my beloved Liguria, and therefore my collection of signatures and my requests to allocate the areas where they should have opened the playrooms to other more constructive activities for the local community have attracted to me intimidation in the form of the reception in an envelope of a slice of lemon, which in the jargon of crime means "keep your mouth closed", followed by a second missive: a bloody saint depicting St. Michael the Archangel with his face burned. Later, telephone intimidation began with a detailed reference: "We remind you that you have children." When I joined Parliament, then, the first act that I joined was the Free Campaign, the future restarts, better known as the campaign of white bracelets, to which 380 MPs and more than 260,000 citizens joined. It is my priority for the good of our country to punish the mixture between politics and mafia: the worst evil of Italy or, better, the mother of all the evils of our beloved country. Today, here in the Chamber, the final report on the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators is presented and discussed, a report from which we have been confronted with disturbing numbers that give us back the photograph of a country in which representatives of the institutions are constantly threatened. The local administrators are the outpost of the institutions on the territory, the litmusol map of a relationship between citizens and state, not always easy, nor completely transparent. There are both punitive and preventive threats and attacks against them. Only in this way is it explained why both former administrators (punited for what they have or have not done) and politicians and candidates are affected, warned beforehand about the consequences of their actions. While it is true that most of the violence is linked to organised crime, in recent years there are 243 municipalities dissolved by mafia infiltrations, two of which in the extreme Ponente Ligure. Behind so many intimidations there is also another: economic interests, evil, corruptive phenomena; always sadly at the forefront of the chronicle personal interests of various natures, which move in the increasingly complex and complicated reality of the local territories. Already Giovanni Falcone had a very clear idea of these modalities. He knew well that the usefulness gained in the relationship with the corrupt politician translates into hijacked contracts, abuses of building permits, undeclared and protected jobs, concessions that systematically interfere with public administrative activity, which, by virtue of the political-mafia exchange, is oriented to satisfy the interests of few (friends of friends) rather than the pursuit of the general public interest. What can the state do not to abandon its representatives, but rather to strengthen them more and more? First of all, it is certainly necessary to support honest administrators and thus defend representative institutions. We need to ensure a greater presence - even physical - of national institutions alongside local administrators and the adoption of prevention programmes, especially against a genuine threat to democracy, which we can only defeat by acting in a fair and transparent manner. On the other hand, I would like to address the Members present. Only by making serious efforts to present to the citizens lists and candidacies, far from any connection with organized crime and evil, will we be able to recover that crisis of mistrust that has hit the Italian political class. In recent weeks Roberto Saviano has urged Raffaele Cantone to take a position on an entrepreneurial one, and the President of the National Authority against corruption has taken a rather clear position, even stating that there is a need to dissolve also the Regions, if infiltrated by the Mafia; he has also pointed out the shortcomings of the regulatory framework, stressing that there should not be candidates for people who have received sentences at first instance. In a general context of mistrust in politics, anyone who has only been touched by events that can bring him closer to the mafias should take a step back for the good of all. The Commission's work gives us a fundamental concept: intimidation is against decent administrators, those who do not bow to any will; only a small part of it is targeted by those who have failed to comply with the agreements. This is to say that not all politics is equal and, above all, to stop that deafening silence, that terrible loneliness, that social ostracism that follows when a local administrator is threatened and isolated by his own community, which has the honor and the burden of representing. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u49	She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss the work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation of local administrators, which has just been concluded, and whose report we are about to approve. Without fear of denial, we can say that we have been among the most frequent attendees of the works, both in terms of the sessions here in the Senate and for the numerous and in-depth missions on the territory, and we can state, conscientiously, that we are happy with how it has proceeded. Normally, the Committees of Inquiry do not follow up on concrete actions, but I hope this will not happen in this case, partly because a full and comprehensive report is being examined, which has cost the President Lo Moro and us who have participated the most toil and commitment. In order to achieve concrete results and recognition of the work done, I ask the House to take action to ensure that the work of investigation carried out in recent months is not frustrated and that a path of awareness and legislative proposition begins immediately, followed by rapid timetables, in order to prevent other dramas from happening. On the merits of the work carried out, I must say that during these months the Commissioners have had the opportunity, in a climate of total sharing, to analyse a phenomenon that has been submerged and forgotten for too long, but with worrying proportions. At the basis of the phenomenon, deliberately excluding the causes arising from the organized underworld, dealt with in other fora, reside different causes, ranging from the bad expectations of the voters to the clumsy declarations of the candidates and then of the elected to administer the Municipalities, to the rampant economic crisis that strikes more and more personal revenge for excessive competition. Let us say, therefore, that much of the problem is to be attributed to the interpretative error of the social function of the public administrator. On the one hand, citizens feel they are allowed to claim favorable treatment or, in any case, personalised exceptions for personal problems that would require long authorisation paths or changes to the planning plans of the administrations, often accompanied by the personal-vote combination promise. In this case, the problem would be solved by a greater civic education taught since primary school, which allows to understand that nothing can be left to the free interpretation of norms by administrators, but everything must be subject to rules and permits as linear and objective as possible. I have spoken of greater civic education, although I fear that it will not be addressed at all and, therefore, we should again lay the foundations for the ministerial programmes to start talking again about the role of citizens, the management and the way in which the state and institutional representatives operate. As regards the candidates and their electoral campaign attitudes which may give rise to subsequent retaliation by voters who are mocked by false promises, little remains to be said, except that candidates for administrative offices should have an integerrimo behavior and not seek by any means the achievement of their objectives. That kind of electoral promise leads to nothing good and could be limited with minimal pre-selection, supported by preventive information that could be conveyed through publications distributed at the time of acceptance of the candidacy or with some changes to the laws on the electoral campaign to introduce stakes within which a candidate can move and warn him of false promises and low-level propaganda, based mostly on dreamlike elucubrations. As far as the current economic situation is concerned, daily life is certainly marked by a lack of security about the economic survival of the family. The search for a stable job that can allow a worthy existence to the members of the family engages much of the day and, in case you can not solve the period of difficulty, provokes a frustration and a discouragement such as to make the local administrator perceive as the most responsible of their problems. The local administrator is in fact more and more the first line of the state, the first contact state and citizen and the central organs playing on this "shield" leave the local administrators alone, abandoned to themselves. In my view, the possible solution to this problem is, in addition to better planning of government policy, aid from the State to enable the crisis period of the citizens to be overcome, such as - we continue to say - the income of citizenship. Generally speaking, some of the blame is probably due to the government's increasing delegation of its coercive prerogatives towards the citizens. More and more often, in fact, we are witnessing a Government that fails to claim in the first person the collection of taxes or the respect of the rules and, after having uniquely approved horizontal cuts to the local administrations, has de facto delegated to these last functions proper to the central organization, assigning to the local administrations a mere role of tax collectors, without decision-making power and above all without portfolio. This undoubtedly causes an increase in tension between the parties (i.e. citizen and local administrator) and helps to prevent them from being able to protect themselves from potentially dangerous situations. 12.04 p.m. (Moronese follow-up). Also in this case it would be useful to increase civic awareness and a rebalancing of the expectations, obligations and needs of the parties involved, as well as a clear distinction of what the citizen pays in taxes to the central and local administration (where he expects a return to the territory of the municipal services). In view of the fact that most of the people in this House come from previous experiences in local administrations, more attention would be expected not to abandon administrators in critical and potentially dangerous situations. Local administrators expect concrete measures and not only and exclusively pieces to ensure their security, but general welfare policies for all citizens, as well as the easing of those pacts and those evil Italian economic policies that choke the municipalities. In conclusion, I hope that what I have said, as well as what is apparent from the report before us, will light up in all of you a conscience that will increase or create the will to take concrete action to combat the phenomenon of intimidation. Read the report, there is a desperate cry from our local administrators. Let's not leave them alone anymore! [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u51	Senator Zuffada is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important opportunity to present in this House all the work done by the Commission of Inquiry on the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators. First of all, it must be stressed that the parliamentary committee of inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation against local administrators has done a good job and, for this reason, I must particularly thank the President of the Commission, in addition to the members of the Commission. The creation of this ad hoc Commission responds to a specific need to clarify the intimidating phenomenon, which is too long neglected by the political forums, but which at the same time weighs heavily on the territories. During our meetings, alarming data emerged: thousands of intimidating acts against local administrators are reported. Over 130 murders have occurred in the last forty years, not to mention all the cases in which local administrators resign from their role, but without making any complaints. In fact, there is talk of a dark figure, not quantifiable: it is assumed a much higher figure than the seventy cases so far attested to resignation by local administrators. What the final report highlights is that action must certainly be taken to combat or at least reduce the phenomenon by sharing and linking the various local institutions. Constant dialogue between police forces and institutional actors is needed in order to make surveillance and security much more effective. In this regard, one of the measures proposed is to create a multi-user database to draw on and share information on suspects. It has been realized, from the analysis of the data, that the problem is much more present in some Regions of South Italy, but also in the North Italy, and at the same time that the reasons behind the intimidation are not exclusively attributable to the phenomenon of organized crime, so much so that the activity of investigation has allowed us to identify many other causes. Among the most important, we have found that the phenomenon of intimidation is due to building abuse, the quarries sector, compulsory health care, welfare policies and welfare benefits. Therefore, considering all these critical profiles, we understand how the phenomenon is not homogeneous at all, but is multidimensional. This particular feature is the basis for any kind of strategy and law enforcement policy that is intended to be developed. Our hope is that this investigation, contained in the final report, will be a good starting point for preparing effective and appropriate measures to eradicate the phenomenon of intimidation and can be created a regulatory framework that, above all, guarantees the local administrator safety, which safeguards his safety and puts him in a position to fully exercise his functions. Politics is the greatest expression of human activity. Many are those who engage daily and passionately in political activities, starting from the administrative activities at the local level. I would also like to mention, in particular, the part of the Commission's report on local administration and the crisis in the relationship between citizens and institutions. I was very impressed, in the hearings held at the territorial level, by the statements of local administrators, both in the North, in the South and in Central Italy, who said quite clearly that in recent years there has been a decrease in the trust relationship between citizens and their administrators. I believe that this is the most politically interesting part of the work of the Commission of Inquiry, because it indicates that the relationship between institutions and citizens is failing. And this is also due to the fact that, between 2011 and 2012, local administrators had a reduction in capital expenditure by 18%, social sector expenditure by 4.5% and that more than half of the budgets are used for administrative and land management expenditure. Many people in this House have been the mayor and know that this figure becomes the first link between the citizen and the institutions. However, in recent years, the mayors, with the increase of their competences, accompanied by a drastic reduction of their resources, have repeatedly found themselves in a position to no longer respond as they would have wished to the demands of the citizens. In this regard I was struck by the statement of a mayor of the province of Verona who, speaking of the decrease of the trust relationship between administrator and citizen, said that he sees every day, in his daily life, the bad relationships that are recorded, specifying as follows: I see it every day when I receive the audience. Whether it's a question of a hedge or a light bulb, everything is an opportunity to argue. I think that's one of the reasons. I therefore appeal also to the political forces that in some cases, often and willingly, use the news of waste of resources and scandals (undoubtedly regrettable) to realize a form of delegitimization of the local administrators, and this must be absolutely avoided. As is the case with other professional activities, there is much news of scandals involving only one or two percent, and instead there is never news - and above all there is never any positive attitude, and this should be the prerogative of politics - of the thousands of administrators who, on the contrary, carry out their task regularly, and with great sacrifices. I therefore appeal to my fellow senators. We continue to say that politics is our highest expression, but we must also defend it when we make presumptuous attacks against it and against local administrators. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Lo Moro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u53	Senator Cantini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u54	Mr President, I too would like to begin my brief speech by thanking the President of the Commission and all the Commissioners. I would particularly like to thank the President for guiding all the work with competence and knowledge and believing that we are a woman engaged in politics. I see in her the stubbornness, the will and also the passion typical of women in the South, and for this I thank her, because really, as far as I am concerned, she made me discover, or rather look at with different eyes a problem that I knew existed in our country, but I did not think it had those deep roots and that diffusion that, instead, with this investigation, we could highlight. 12:14 p.m. (Follows CANTINI). I live in Tuscany, as you can hear from my accent, and my colleagues know that I have been mayor for ten years, until 2009. I have to say that, thanks to this work, I saw with different eyes some events that occurred when I was in office. I have seen them with different eyes and I have realized and wondered - it is a reflection that I bring to this House today - because so many numbers that we have heard and written in the report I believe are only a small part of the phenomenon of intimidation that is actually explicit on the territory towards the local administrators. Surely many administrators - that is what I have thought about - are the subject of episodes that can be included in the case-making, but that are undervalued and do not take into consideration. And this happens a little because considering them as such would mean feeling more scared, being afraid and then encountering a greater difficulty in doing your job; a little because it is missing - I would say, in reality, that it was missing because, if we spread and make this report known, we make it a tool of work - the ability to connect to a more general phenomenon the cases that occur in the small or medium-sized municipalities. Knowledge is fundamental. As I said, this work has changed somewhat my approach to the problem and made me more aware of its importance, but above all of the importance of what we will do in the future. And I am talking about the future because - as has been well said by the previous speaker - the report and all the work done must not remain in the drawers, but must be the starting point to do so many things. Of course, we have a legislative work to do - it is our task, the main task, having been elected with this objective - but also that of all of us when we return to our territories, where we represent different parties. And all together we will have to succeed in overcoming one of the problems that I consider to be the basis of growth. The problem that I would like to mention briefly is the crisis in politics and the fact that, undoubtedly, for entirely lawful and legitimate reasons, the relationship between politics, politicians and citizens has been called into question. By questioning this report, we have also called into question the institutions. The institutions are and must be - and we know this because we sit in this House - above and beyond the mistakes that individuals can make and have made. The institutions must be safeguarded and protected, and one way to do this is to never put them in the sedan, not mock them and not make them the object of ridicule on the part of anyone. We have heard from the speeches made and from our President's report how many cases we have recorded. I mention only two or three numbers that struck me most, because they belong to that part of Italy that I thought, erroneously, was farther away from this phenomenon. If in just over a year we have been able to census 56 cases in Tuscany, 78 cases in Lazio and 93 cases in Lombardy, this must tell all of us that it is not a phenomenon of the South. [[Applause from Senator Mattesini]] This is true, even if we know - and we must never hide it - that, in the South, phenomena have a more incisive character and come to a gravity of action far superior to that of other cases. Of course, this is something that we must never forget in the generalization of the case, because in that reality we are dealing with a different and particular phenomenon, much more collusion and more united with organized crime. On the other hand - in my opinion - the phenomenon takes on more the contours of a social phenomenon, but for this reason no less important and not to be underestimated. Finally, I prepared a text that impressed me very much, on the thought of a journalist we know well, Concita De Gregorio, entitled "They have killed the most beautiful craft." If I had read it a while ago, I would have said he was too pessimistic. Today, however, I say that he is, yes, pessimistic in the conclusion, but very truthful in how he treats the phenomenon and it is a stimulus for us to continue the work done this year. I would like to conclude by reading what Concita De Gregorio writes: There was a time, incredibly recent, when it was said that being mayor was the most beautiful profession in the world, and it was true. It happened so few years ago that, if we try hard, we still remember it. In small cities, for example, in the towns, in the places where we were born and where certain Sundays we returned. There was someone who had been at school with us, in another section of another year, or who had been engaged 20 years ago to someone else we knew well, or who was the son of Amelia, our mother's colleague, "Do you remember Amelia?" and this someone was now the mayor. He met him on the street in the morning, good morning mayor, he smiled with cheerful irony as if to say "mayor, who would have said..." and she or he always, always spent half an hour answering: "You cannot understand the beauty of this profession, the contact with reality, the proximity with people, the satisfaction of being useful, the certainty of being able to really change things, look at politics in the end has nothing to do with it, it's another story, if you really put yourself in it you can do, change destinies. Do good, good. In good faith, trying and perhaps wrong, but doing." Anyone remember that? I do. I also remember that it was true. That a mayor, the mayor of a small or medium or even large city, could really spill the glove and change the story. I could give examples, names. The one that assigned the housing. The one who saved the factory from closing. What the park did. The one who invented the seafront that wasn't there. The one who twinned with Chernobyl. The one who redeemed the land to the Mafia. But those are yesterday's stories, the day before yesterday. Let's talk about now. Now, today, in an infinitesimal period, acting mayor has become a condemnation. A disaster. The years have passed, we have grown and then aged: they are no longer the children of friends, now. It's friends. They are the ones who have faced election campaigns in spite of the parties and won them. They are people of our generation, of our age who call and say: it is hell. They bet everything, they wiped out mistrust and disenchantment, they won. Good, isn't it? Very bad, though. From this point, so pessimistic, we must continue our work. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Zuffada.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u55	The debate is closed. I inform you that the Presidency has received motion for a resolution No 1, signed by Senators Zanda, Romani Paolo, Marton, Schifani, Centinario, Lo Moro and others. As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in her reply, I call the representative of the Government, to whom I would also ask her to give her opinion on the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u56	Mr President, I would like to say at once that the Government's opinion on the resolution is positive. It is a positive opinion because the work that the Commission is giving us is particularly valuable for the indications it is reporting and the analyses that it puts to our attention. That is also why I would like to thank President Lo Moro and all the members of the Commission in particular. I think that the work produced is a concrete demonstration of how much can be done in a profitable way to examine the problems of the country, to deepen its reasons and also to signal its solutions. I believe that the work of this Commission can and should be part of the positive examples of Parliament's work and - let me say this - also of the fruitful relationship between the Government and Parliament, because everyone for their part has intended to offer the maximum of the contribution not only to understand more and better, but also to act accordingly. Some of the indications contained in the report are already operational activities by the Ministry of the Interior, because some of them can be collected with simple acts of direction, with simple actions of an administrative nature. And then there are other aspects that, on the other hand, deserve to be assumed and explained through the definition of primary norms. President Lo Moro has announced the presentation of a bill, signed by the Commissioners, if I have understood correctly, and we will learn from this work with the utmost attention and cooperation so that those proposals can be sound, effective and able to respond to the issues arising from the valuable work carried out. I would like to thank all the speakers in this debate, the senators and the senators, for the seriousness, rigour and depth of the assessments proposed. I think that from this work has emerged a picture of problematicity, of criticality, but also of extraordinary riches that mark the political and institutional landscape of our country. And it seems to me that, also through this work, the centrality of the local institutions and also the need to feed that interinstitutional cooperation, that loyal cooperation - as we often love to say - so that everyone can offer the utmost commitment to give answers to the communities administered. From this picture emerges also a complexity of the time we are living. It has emerged that the phenomena of intimidation are, of course, largely ascribed to attempts to conditioning criminal organizations, and the density of phenomena concentrated in regions dominated by the mafia, the 'ndrangheta and the Camorra highlight this connection. But there is also a glimpse of realities in which, despite the absence of firmly established criminal organizations, such problems emerge, which have sometimes been explained even by murderous actions against administrators. I think it's worth remembering that murdered mayor a few years ago in the Veneto Region. All this highlights the deep crisis that we feel and of which we should be more aware, for the relationship that exists also between phenomena of this kind and the poverty of social relations, sense of belonging, trust and civic spirit that is scarce in our communities. And all this - as has rightly been pointed out in numerous interventions - calls in the field politics, its authority and its ability to call our communities to the commitment and sharing of high projects. Only through the commitment and the relaunch of the political initiative is it possible to reconstruct that positive heritage of relations, those bonds which, at a time of serious economic crisis, which is also a civil, institutional and relations crisis, can help to overcome the difficulties. We must invest with greater conviction on what is now called social capital, which is made of good behavior, always, by those who have political and institutional responsibilities and good behavior on the part of citizens who can be assumed to the importance of the collective, plural dimension, to defeat the selfishness that generates those phenomena of loneliness that produce unhappiness and dissatisfaction and then feed on those forms of violence that we today want to condemn with force. I would like to end by thanking the Commission and all the speakers once again, wishing that the continuation of this activity could be a further example of how we can act honestly and loyally, sharing a commitment to improve the living conditions of our citizens and to give a new meaning to the policy and commitment of the institutions. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Zuffada, Bernini and Gualdani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, our work is being attended by the students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education (Matthew Ricci) in Macerata, whom we welcome and thank for their visit to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u58	We shall then proceed to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, since the subject we are discussing is widely shared, I would ask you to contain your explanations of vote within four or five minutes. In this way, we could proceed to the vote on the document before the end of the sitting, scheduled for 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u61	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I shall try to support your invitation. I begin my speech with a wish that the work of the Commission, which has been chaired with great seriousness and competence by President Lo Moro, may be useful, to Parliament and the Government, in order to adopt measures and actions that can effectively and effectively protect the safety of local administrators who are subject to intimidation and violence, and to intervene in order to ensure that prevention is ever greater than these phenomena. If we were to succeed, as we tried to do with the proposed law that has been deposited, in restricting even part of these phenomena, I believe that the work of the Commission would make sense, its effectiveness and could be considered useful to all of us and our community. The local administrators who are victims of organised crime, of course, are mainly located in the territories of the South (but not only), and in particular in Sicily, Campania, Puglia and Calabria. These are very serious phenomena, which have also led to mourning episodes for the communities and families of administrators. So we must certainly support all those administrators of Italy, but especially of the South, who, unlike those few who use their role to carry out personal interests, also work challenging organized crime and its violence with a great sense of duty. Of course, our esteem and our full appreciation go to them. Then there is another type of victim among our administrators, victims of the social hardship that has hit and severely affects entrepreneurs, families and all our communities. I believe that many local administrators, at this time, are victims of this same discomfort, as are those who even end up taking their lives, unable to react to the pain and suffering caused by a social crisis that does not allow them to find a solution to their lives. Likewise, I believe that those administrators who pay, sometimes even with their lives, for being affected by those who, in despair, identified them in those who could give answers to solve their problems, but are unable to do so. I shall conclude briefly, Mr President, by saying that the state has an important role: it cannot abandon local administrators to deal with these emergencies, but it must give sufficient resources to react to what is happening on our territories. The worst fault that can involve a government is to delegate responses exclusively to mayors and local administrators, without giving them sufficient resources to deal with these problems, abandoning them in the worst way. They are in the front row, on the front of this emergency: we must not allow ourselves to abandon them, but we must be at their side concretely, and not delegate only to them the solution of the problems. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Albano and Lo Moro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u62	Colleagues, in thanking you for accepting the invitation to the abbreviation of the times, I recall that it is possible to leave the full text of the speeches to the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u65	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, these days we have all been committed to drawing up lists for the local elections, while we are now committed to supporting them. It is not only a question of regional elections, but there are also municipalities: there are many administrations and many municipalities that are voting to gain the confidence of the citizens. We have all found a particular difficulty in making such lists, and we have also paid a price in terms of their quality: there are some, in fact, composed with the presence of companies; others with a small number of candidates and others who see people, even in a way, to try the very complicated field of politics applied to the government of the local institutions and which are formed by those who are there, and not by those we need. We can almost no longer make the selection of political staff to be engaged in local administrations, and why? The political function of government of the local institutions and the political function in general, which is also intended for representation, is mortified, and I stress this. This country, in fact, in its implementation, has taken a drift - and not since today, but for years, and, I do not even mean that it happened because of the responsibility of the current Executive - in a way that I would define absolutely conscious, organized, punctual and meticulous. It has taken a drift from a plan of destabilisation of democratic institutions, which leads our Italy towards an inexorable economic, moral, civil and political decline. And our local administrators, who are the ones who are the most at the border, are also the ones who pay the most. They're the ones we put at the most risk of their lives, too. Perhaps a little reasoning should be made on this. If any political force present here in the Senate is so convinced that that plan, that plan of mortification of the political function, is useful, well that political force is our enemy and it is an enemy that we must fight with robust political actions and government decisions. We can put all the cameras in this world and interweave all data from databases and law enforcement, but if we do not restore authority and authority to the political function of our local administrations and to that of representation in parliaments, we are complicit in the plan of democratic destabilisation that this country has been the victim of for years. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u68	Mr Gualdani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, I would like to say at once that, given the timing, I will have to ask to attach part of my speech. First of all, I would like to thank all the Commissioners of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation of local administrators and President Lo Moro for their work in a synergistic and compact manner. Mine is a sincere and sincere thank you. During the work carried out, data have emerged about complaints, murders and abandonments (because someone decided to throw in the towel) that have upset us and saddened us. Our main objective, therefore, is to avoid the isolation of administrators. In our opinion, this is a concept that must be the basis of the democratic life of our country. As for the merit of my speech, it is necessary to work to avoid the isolation of administrators, which is often a precondition of intimidation and to strengthen the local institutions, starting from the municipalities that represent, according to a beautiful image used by the President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella, the face of the Republic, which presents itself to citizens in everyday life. For this reason, it is absolutely desirable to strengthen the means of linking and exchanging information between central and peripheral government, judiciary and territorial authorities. The creation of a network and less discretion in decision-making would not only ensure greater protection for local administrators, but also ensure greater transparency and efficiency in administrative action. The Commission's work has not only been limited to an analysis of the status quo, but has resulted precisely in proposals for solutions which could provide for the spread of the phenomenon. The measures assessed favourably by the Commission can essentially be traced back to two categories: general measures of a largely organisational nature and specific measures, including regulatory measures, within the individual sectors most affected by the intimidation phenomenon. Among the latter, extremely fertile areas for the emergence of intimidation are those of building abuse, quarries and associated mining and procurement activities. The risks associated with the infiltration of organised crime are increasing in the field of trade and licensing and in relation to the gambling sector, as a colleague mentioned earlier. On welfare policies a possible response to the problems associated with this sector could be seen in increasing transparency in the procedures for allocating subsidies, housing and contributions, situations in which local administrators are left alone in their reflections. Finally, I would like to focus on the criminal aspects of the matter. The investigation carried out in the Commission has clearly revealed the need to review criminal law in order to allow the use of currently inhibited investigative instruments and to provide, from a criminal point of view, adequate protection for the local administrator. I very much hope that all the solutions proposed by the Commission, or a large part of them, will be taken into account and that the parliamentary procedure through which the repressive criminal discipline of intimidation forms will be brought to light in a short period of time will begin as soon as possible. Therefore, I announce the vote in favour of the People's Area Group. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and FI-PdL XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u69	The Presidency authorizes you to attach the remainder of your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u72	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, bombs, car fires, attacks and threats are just a few examples of intimidation against local administrators. Just to give you a few numbers, overall the intimidating acts against mayors, councilors and candidates were, from January 2013 to April 2014, 1,265: eighty per month, almost three per day. This is obviously alarming, but the most alarming thing in my opinion is that no one is talking about it! The silent war against local administrators must first be manifested, and then faced. As the work in the Commission has shown, the basis for underestimating the phenomenon lies precisely the lack of knowledge of the phenomenon, the fact that it has always gone unnoticed. As if it were on the agenda, or rather normal, that mayors, city councilors, councilors suffer intimidation, aggression or, at worst, are killed, especially in the regions of the South. I also declare on behalf of the 5 Star Movement Group the vote in favour, expressing my appreciation for the content of the report. I would like to stress that a collaborative work has been carried out in the Commission with all its members. The opinion on the work in the Commission and the final report can only be positive, which is evidence of the fact that the 5 Star Movement is not defeatist a priori, as some would like to support. We are the first to work together and make ourselves available where people work. In the Commission we first focused on analysing the phenomenon and, thanks to the elements received during the numerous hearings, the documents acquired and the surveys, we tried to identify its motives. Among the main causes of the phenomenon is certainly to mention the general sense of distrust of the citizens towards the institutions, which - let me tell you - the political class has caused; a sense of distrust increased by the continuous and repeated episodes of corruption, by the increasing economic problems, and by the bad management of public money. From public procurement to building abuse, from urban planning to environmental protection and waste management, from the provision of social services to gambling: all these sectors can be considered to be grounds for intimidating actions. In fact, it happens that citizens, faced with the inertia and inability of the state to give answers, claim that local authorities closest to each other will solve all the problems. And where even mayors and city councilors are not able to give answers, organized crime, now present in all regions, intervenes. The primacy remains with the Southern Regions, where 80% of the events recorded have been recorded, but we must not fall into the error of thinking that the phenomenon of mafia intimidation is restricted to the typical regions of Sicily, Calabria and Campania. To these are added the disturbing numbers of Puglia, Sardinia, Lazio and, in recent years, also those of Tuscany, Emilia-Romagna, Veneto, Lombardy and Piedmont. The data refer, therefore, to a national phenomenon that naturally takes different forms depending on the social-political characteristics of the territory. In order to prevent all the work done, all the hearings and the collection of data from remaining a dossier to be kept in the drawer, I repeat what has already been said in the Commission, namely that now that we have the instruments (the qualitative and quantitative data now consolidated in the Commission's final report) we cannot fail to take the actions that are the responsibility of this institution. I hope that the proposals made by the 5 Star Movement, and included in the Commission's report, will not only be transposed, but will be reflected in legislative acts, which I summarize very quickly. We talked about the revision of Article 336 of the penal code; the strengthening of the information relationship between prefects and magistrates; the implementation of measures to combat ludopathies; the regulatory revision in the field of quarries. These are just a few of the proposals and I really hope that colleagues who today welcome the final work will work together to turn ideas into facts, seriously trying to stem the problem with the most appropriate legal instruments. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u75	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation of local administrators has been very effective. The work has shown that this is an alarming phenomenon, not at all sporadic and absolutely serious. The Commission's work has been intensive and comprehensive. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to express sincere appreciation both to the members and to the officials, with special thanks to the President, Senator Lo Moro. The work has allowed to reconstruct the real scope of the phenomenon of intimidation that is dramatic both from the quantitative point of view and from the qualitative point of view, burdened by 132 murders consumed in the last forty years, murders that often remain confined to the only local chronicle and burdened by the dark figure, because not quantifiable, relative to the resignation produced by directors who prefer to leave the activity without denouncing the intimidation received. A further fact that shows us clearly the gravity of the phenomenon is that of the more 1,265 intimidating acts against local administrators registered by Italian prefectures in just fifteen months, starting from 1 January 2013, as highlighted in the final report. The Commission's work is also an opportunity to point out that to date the problem has been dealt with in part because it is considered solely as ascribed to organised crime. On the other hand, the investigation has shown that the causes of the intimidation are different and that they affect different sectors of social and economic life. For example, they can be traced back, as we have heard, to building abuse, to the management of the works and supply contracts sector, to the licensing sector and so on. In order to fully understand the phenomenon it is necessary to have a clear knowledge of it. In this regard, the proposal reiterated in the resolution to carry out a census and to establish a national database for the detection of intimidating episodes, the main feature of which should be to be multi-user, in order to give the possibility to the various institutional actors (magistracy, law enforcement, prefectures and local authorities) to collaborate to share and aggregate all information useful to identify the subject, the matrix and the acts and actions intimidating. This well-structured and protected database could be a useful tool for increasing the constant dialogue between the various actors, overcoming some of the difficulties of interlocation highlighted by the numerous audit bodies. The Commission's analyses and conclusions can only be a piece of work and are certainly not enough to attack and solve this serious and more widespread problem than is thought of in the South, the Centre and the North of the country. These conclusions can well indicate a trace of concrete and operational deepening regarding which we expect a precise action of the Executive consequent to the critical profiles highlighted in support of the local administrators. I quote only a couple of critical profiles: to understand the adequacy of the regulatory framework and identify the actions that need to be intensified in order to eradicate the phenomenon and ensure the best and free exercise of the functions assigned to local authorities and administrators; to check accordingly the adequacy of the legislation in force in the various sectors and its application for a possible formulation of new proposals of a regulatory nature; to ascertain the capacity of the authorities and public administrations to intervene; to assess the possibility, as has already been indicated in the motion, to cope with the shortage of staff and to employ additional resources, also of an interforce nature, to identify those responsible against other administrators; to allocate resources to a more intense information activity using all the means available considering that the phenomenon, especially in certain areas of Italy, is strongly linked to problems of a cultural character. I conclude by saying that the Group of Forza Italia voted in favour of the resolution approving the final report of the Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of intimidation to local administrators, with the hope that the content of the report will not be lost in the aftermath of laxity, indeterminateness and inertia. Effective action is needed to ensure transparent, free and efficient local administrative action for people, families and businesses. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Lo Moro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u78	CARDINALI (PD). Pietro Bellavite, City Councillor of Pavia, Vittorio Ingroia, City Councillor of Enna, Antonio Piscitello, City Councillor of Trapani, Mario Ceretto, candidate for City Council of Turin, Francesco Paolo Guarrasi, City Councillor of Trapani... [[Brusio.]] Sorry, Mr President, it is late: we will also be hungry, but I think five minutes of healthy respect is a duty.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u79	Colleagues, this is the last explanation of vote. I invite you to remain silent in your place.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u80	CARDINALI (PD). Mr President, these are the first names of a list of 132 murders since 1974. Three are women, the average age does not exceed forty-six years, the youngest is twenty-two, the oldest sixty-three. They were killed mainly by mafias and terrorism, but also by simple citizens, who saw in them an obstacle to their response to their demands and claims, or by an exasperated political rivalry, or by personal facts. There is one sentence that I very much like and which we have written in the report, which is also widely shared: There is another history of Italy. A story that is still waiting to be written and that is what we have tried to do. It is a submerged story, made up of names, places - not only in the South, but throughout Italy - of suffering, which belongs to us in its entirety and which it is right to know. It is the story of the hundreds of intimidated administrators, threatened, forced to live under protection. It is a phenomenon that has been underestimated, because it is considered as an endless sum of cases, without being able to propose a unified and understandable narrative line. Remembering what happened is also an ethical responsibility, in recovering names and data, in remembering that facts and sufferings were real... [[Brusio.]] President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u81	The fact is that many Members are returning to the Chamber, so it has more audiences, but there is also more noise. I call all my colleagues to order, however, and I would ask you to proceed with your speech. CARDINALI (PD). You're talking about administrators who lost their lives. I think they - not Senator Cardinals - deserve respect. These are real facts, therefore, and even today there are people who have often had no justice, compared to the sacrifice of their loved ones, who have paid the sole fault of taking the path of political and civil commitment. The courage and integrity of many administrators have been clouded by connivances, but putting all the victims in the same cauldron, as often happens also for other phenomena, you risk not offering coherent answers. In our country the local authorities have always anticipated phenomena of general scope, all too often however with a negative symbolic connotation, which delivered the whole of the local authorities to an image of collusion, that of institutions unable to enforce the rules, especially because of the numerous local administrators, perhaps complicit or involved in events of mafia. We have all too often had little attention to what to do to support and what to do to avoid such phenomena. So let us identify four declinations, which are fundamental to understanding events, the first of which is intentionality. A theme that is proposed, an unresolved problem, is that of the conflict between the vertical and the horizontal dimensions of public management: the basis of the phenomenon is territorial, but the answer is almost always prescriptive, central and surrogate of the local authorities. Then there is the political violence, which has taken place and continues to have it, even within the electoral contests. I want to make an appeal in this regard: since we are in the election campaign, it is important to talk about it today in this House, so that some issues are not emphasized and the tones are exasperated, because on the day following the vote, those who administer are confronted with the people. There is a policy of fear, which still works in many territories of our country, with respect to the issue of security and legality, to which we must give an answer. Finally, even the direct election of mayors has surely shifted expectations and hopes towards the first citizens. Building effective political institutions is therefore one of the main indicators of democracy, building mechanisms for which the citizen regains confidence in the institutions. The emotional actions that can arise from discomfort and needs are certainly not predictable, to the point that many local administrators have lost their lives by measuring themselves with these situations; however, there is a wide range of episodes that belong more to the sphere of denigration and intimidation. That's why we also tried to do a screening, but in any case 522 episodes are reported. These are data that indicate a phenomenon of difficult management, probably underestimated in its consequences, but there is also the need to prepare new and different operational and regulatory tools to address it effectively. There is also a further problem that both the Deputy Minister and the President pointed out, namely the lack of cooperation in areas with high mob density. Three main classifications have been produced: social hardship, protests and social tensions related to administrative issues and acts related to the office, role and political rivalry. Then there is the dark figure, the one about which the President has spoken a great deal. Moreover, the difficulty of emerging the phenomenon lies precisely in the very concept of intimidation, which is already a step ahead of the simple threat and which also contains, in the simple announcement, the aim aimed at restricting psychic freedom and disturbing the tranquility of those who receive it. We must break the loneliness of local administrators; it is important to know this phenomenon, which has so far been hostage to the paradox of numbers. It has happened that in the regions where it takes on high quantitative proportions is not visible, because it is hidden in very large total figures; where the numbers are contained, instead, the episode is read in a parcelled way. As a prosecutor-general of the Republic rightly said during a hearing, there is memory in individuals, but there is no historical memory and this produced a partial analysis that has led, moreover, to the fact that 85% of the cases reported are borne by unknown persons and also a storage that has risked destabilizing the trust in the institutions, causing also a delegitimation towards the justice. This, however, produces a vulnus of authority in the offended person who leads the same recipient to underestimate the many episodes we have encountered. I would like to conclude by asking for the full text of my speech to be published in the Annex to the Reports of today's sitting. Object obstacles to the investigation derive from the difficulty of identifying with certainty the causality of the gesture, since the range of action of a local administrator is very wide. This difficulty is also found by mayors and administrators to also communicate insights that provide the basis for understanding what it is. There is also the complex issue of the current instruments of criminal protection: these are limited instruments, which do not allow the crime to be linked to the function of the victim and which also affect the level of democracy, efficiency and quality of an administration when this offensive character is not grasped. The preventive function is weakened, the information is summary. We are faced with a phenomenon that, according to our Commission, must instead emerge from the simple comment, whose relevance lies in its numbers and in history, if it is true, as emerges from the data provided by the Ministry of the Interior, that almost 5% of the administrators of an Italian municipality is subjected to a protective device. There is a need to support cohesion policy based on collective aims against erosion, through policy, fear. Mr President, I am about to conclude. I just need a few more minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, it's about doing what other colleagues did. It seems to me to be a matter of respect for the senators who have self-imposed. The Presidency shall authorise it to attach the full text of the explanation of vote. CARDINALI (PD). I shall begin by making the last two comments on the Commission's work. Today, Mr Uras rightly said that the crisis has exacerbated a phenomenon for which many people are convinced that the mayor is the one who has to solve everything, but that is impossible. I would like to thank the Commission for working in a united, cohesive manner, for voting unanimously on the final report and for meeting the deadlines. I conclude my speech, as I started it, recalling some names: Laura Prati, Mayor of Cardano al Campo, killed in 2013 at forty-eight years old; Piersanti Mattarella, President of the Region of Sicily, killed in 1980 at forty-four years old; Giuseppe Impastato, killed on May 9, 1978 when he was thirty years old. For these men and women whom they administer every day and for those who have lost their lives to administer by putting their faces on our faces and making their battle legal, we shall vote in favour of motion for resolution No 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u82	[[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bernini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u83	I put to the vote the motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Zanda, Romans Paolo, Marton, Schifani, Centinario and other Senators. It's approved. The vote on the instrument of address means that the debate on the document on the agenda is over.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u84	I would like to inform the House that, as already communicated to the parliamentary groups on the short lines, tomorrow's question time will be held at 4 p.m., the Minister of Defence, Senator Pinotti, will answer questions on the following topics: international security strategy and defence, with particular regard to the Euro-Mediterranean region; organisation and structure of the armed forces. It's a question time session with live television.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u87	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as announced the previous time, I rise to urge all the time, all the more, that the Government does not respond to the questions and questions that have been put. I promised myself I'd do it on time and on a daily basis. As a matter of fact, I will do so weekly, but I will also make these requests on a daily basis: it is shameful that the Government has not answered questions for a very long time, I would say that this has been the case since this Parliament took office. I shall refer, from time to time, to some of those to whom no reply has been given. I quote dates (consider that they are among the last to come to Parliament): I presented one on 30 October 2014, to which no reply was given, and another on 11 November 2014, to which no reply was given. I will leave the paper every time with the list of questions and questions and (I do not know if that will be possible) in order to avoid wearying the Presidency and those who listen to me, even a recording, with a tape in which I will repeat this every time. In fact, in the end I will always say the same thing, all the time, until someone in the government is ashamed and, finally, will begin to answer some questions. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u88	You can also leave us some videos.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u91	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, today we are talking about intimidation. Yesterday evening in Giugliano in Campania a potential city councilman, a candidate for the municipal council of which Municipality, more than being subject to intimidation, was attacked. Mr President, I would like to refer to the way in which he was attacked. He was in the car and he was going home; they called him, he came back and they gave his name and surname. He lowered the window and was given a punch, after which they followed slaps and fists. They told him in Neapolitan: "Even it's Five Stars there screwed O'Fuck." In practice, Mr President, we are really creating a climate that is too harsh for us. I believe that no city councilman, or candidate for the City Council, can receive such strong intimidation. I say this above all to the Democratic Party, that it really had to distance itself from what was done on the dirty lists in Campania by the candidate President De Luca. In fact, it is obvious that if I have the dirty lists, then these dirty ones go to find what is in the people more dirty and, therefore, it is obvious that we should act at the origin. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let me turn to another subject, which is the draw of the scouts. Once again, we're pressing. This time it is the Municipality of Sant'Antimo. There was initially a counselor who had expressed himself first in favor (verbly) and then, in reality, did something else. In particular, the following members voted for direct appointment on 11 May: Castiglione Salvatore and Di Donato Raffaele, while in favor of the public draw the councilman Domenico Russo and abstained the president, mayor Francesco Piemonte. But the cabaretistic thing is that Councillor Castiglione, who had at first declared himself amply, publicly and unequivocally in favour of the public draw, then at the time of the vote he declared that he did not trust the computer system adopted - also certified - provided precisely by the law for the public draw. And he said that since it takes an urn like that for the lottery game, he felt obliged to name them "aumma aumma." [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-453.ana.u92	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 13.11 a.m.
