ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u4	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1971, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's afternoon sitting the amendments and agendas relating to the articles of the Decree-Law were finally examined.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u11	TARQUINIO (CRI). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, yesterday I was a little disappointed, not so much about the measure, which I will be talking about shortly, but, being a certain age and being used to good evening ladies, I expected the visit of Miss Trust, which was not there. In fact, Minister Boschi didn't come and I was disappointed. Returning to the measure under consideration, the plant, the premises, the idea of the government regarding the emergency that we live in the agriculture sector are good. But as dear Vice-Minister Olivero knows, the resources are totally inadequate, insufficient. In fact, we cannot imagine solving the problems of the serious crisis in the milk and olive sectors, with the epidemics that are hitting our olive groves - problems, I repeat, of a single gravity - with the totally insufficient resources put in place. We need to make a basic speech. If there is no serious idea on the part of this government, as of previous governments, to decide what are the emergencies and riches of this country, there is nowhere to go. If we do not convince ourselves that agriculture is the backbone of this country, and it has been for decades having represented the best employment area in Italy, we will never get out of it. That means that either agriculture, the car industry, which together with agriculture has been one of our greatest resources immediately after the war, is focused on agriculture, and it is done with adequate and real funding, or we are not going anywhere. These measures will only serve to procrastinate for a few months the situations that we live in every sector. There is no basic choice. There is no government of the country's economic situation and compared to agriculture the problem is very serious, because the situations will get worse and we are doing nothing but keeping a patient alive in a coma perhaps irreversible. We could bring him back to life, but we need huge resources and that is why we need a choice upstream, a choice of government, an economic choice, and not decisions taken day by day or by declaring that the so-called constitutional reforms resolve the problems. They are useless nonsense: the problems are solved only by generating wealth - and agriculture is and can be so - and by generating employment, this is the real figure. How do you ignore a sector like agriculture? How can we not defend agriculture with energy in Europe, not with weakness? The attempt now to produce dairy products and cheeses with milk powder is another attack on the quality Italian product. How does this Government, as has been done for years, ignore that we lose 60 billion euros for the counterfeiting of Made in Italy? How does this Government fail to understand that the safety labelling of Made in Italy must be done and entrusted to institutions of the State, such as Poligrafico, in order to ensure that the market of made in Italy cannot exist? For years we have been saying these things and nothing happens: why? What interests lie behind all this? These answers must be given: we are talking about EUR 60 billion. I repeat that official safety labelling can only give it to the State's Polygraph Institute and Mint, partly because this would generate hundreds of thousands of jobs. This silence has from the incredible, just as it has of the incredible that the producer, out of 100 euros, has 2 left. This chain must be reduced, action must be taken and this does not happen. I have heard in this House the total praise of the measure. It seemed that we had solved the problems of agriculture. I have heard that the EUR 250,000 increase in the fisheries sector is an answer: but what are we talking about? The fisheries sector is in deep crisis, our fleet of vessels is shrinking more and more every day and if resources are not allocated as was the case 30-40 years ago for the modernisation of the fleet, if there are no serious European measures for this sector, I do not know where we will end up. There is no overall response here, there is no plan, there is no government of this grave situation. From all this we earn, as Conservatives and Reformists, the full conviction and determination to say no to this decree-law, while appreciating the effort to identify some key sectors of crisis, but this is totally insufficient. It is not an accusation to you, Mr. Deputy Minister, but it is an accusation to the Government, to the majority that does not decide how this country must come out of the crisis. Well, our country will come out of the crisis even if the problem of agriculture will be tackled seriously, if the counterfeiting of the Made in Italy will be clearly and without misunderstandings, because otherwise you generate a thousand suspects. All this has incredible. I hope that this will happen, and that is not the case today. I hope that in the law of stability or in other measures there will be a total reversal of trend and a clear choice of guidelines for the development of this country from which agriculture cannot be kept out. From this point of view, then, we will be next to you, because ours is not a pretentious opposition, but a real opposition that wants to see the facts. If the facts are there, we will support you, but the way we are proceeding now we are not going anywhere. This is our opinion and our way of seeing things, which I believe is a photograph of the reality of this sector and of the whole country. I therefore declare our vote against the conversion into law of the decree-law under consideration. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u14	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have reached the end of the examination of this decree-law and the first paradoxical aspect concerns the process of approval of the decree itself, because in fact this is a measure subject to confidence, although it is not formally so, and it is right that it is known that the Government has chosen the path of the decree-law, neglecting then the fact that the same could at least be improved in its final stage of reading here in the Senate. We were given a few days, but above all the Government gave the unwillingness to change any part of the text that came out of the Chamber of Deputies. I do not intend, Mr President, to delay on the subject of perfect bicameralism, if it still exists and if this Senate still has its powers. One thing is certain: we are legalizing in contempt on the part of the Government for the parliamentary activity that must be carried out here. Let us remember that in this Chamber there are not appointed representatives of the citizens, senators who have not only the aspiration and the ambition, but the duty to represent, with respect to the provisions of law, the needs of the territory: in this case agriculture, who makes agriculture and not those who theorize it, like those who sit in ministerial offices; who agriculture makes it rising in the morning at the rising of the sun and working until the evening. We have a duty to collect these requests, to bring them into the debate, so that they can help to change the law where necessary. None of this has been possible, for a choice of government: on sixty days necessary to convert to law a decree-law, the provision passes fifty to the House; we keep it there, boil it a bit like a soup, then we take it to the boiled Senate, cooked and away. No, Mr President, that is not how we behave properly in relation to parliamentary activity and any draft law, least of all if it is agriculture, least of all if we are in the year of Expo. The Minister for Agriculture could have at least pleased us with his presence in this House for a quarter of an hour. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Are you busy at the Expo? Bravo, perhaps he also deludes himself to passing from one continent to another simply crossing a road: that of the cardoon and the decuman. No, this is not how Italian agriculture is represented seriously: this is how the various Petrini, Farinetti, those who do the business on Italian agriculture are represented; not those who promote Made in Italy, but those who speculate on Italian agriculture. Vice-Minister Olivero, advise the President of the Council of Ministers, because perhaps his figure is better suited to that role than that of Minister Martina, who can probably be a very good promoter, but certainly as Minister he is worth much less than what he spends. I repeat, there has not been a minute in this House. We had the presence of the Minister of Education, we had the presence of the Minister of Defence, and then we wonder: are we talking about armaments? Are we talking about culture or culture? The reason is very simple and we have seen it since the adoption of the first amendments, or rather how you rejected the first amendments, i.e. with 5-6 different votes. Then you had to "cammel" the troops and bring everyone here, including the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Education, to reject amendments of absolute common sense, which went with a view to helping, in this case, our farmers affected by disasters. You did this simply to shut your mouth to opposition and not to give an answer to the problems of agriculture. You have armored this decree-law, you have not had the courage to put trust, but you have armored it in fact, and this unfortunately even in the absence of the President of the Agriculture Commission. In the Committee on Agriculture we work, we do it very well and also with good harmony, but to consider so little this decree-law, at the time of its translation into law, is slimming. Our judgment was not negative at the origin and is not negative even in this circumstance, but it is certainly not positive, because the attitude forces us not to be positive. We would have liked to see the positive parts of this decree-law not limited in number, but multiplied by the useful and salutary contribution of the proposed amendments, but it was not possible. We would have liked to have been able to talk about agricultural IMU, but here we have been prevented from doing so, calling the amendments on agricultural IMU impossible, when we had to talk about agriculture, because they were not relevant to the matter. But what hypocrisies are we talking about? The real problem, Minister, is that your colleague, Mr Padoan, says that it is impossible in fact to eliminate the agricultural IMU, while Minister Martina, in his marketing prosopopopea, says one day yes and the other also: now we will put our hand and remove the agricultural IMU. In fact, you know you've done a crazy boiata. That's the real brick you pulled in the head of the farmers. I repeat, agriculture is not done in the offices of the Ministry or the Ministry of Agriculture; agriculture is done on the ground. This decree-law arrives less than a month after the related to agriculture, which was required to boil by the Government in the drawers of the Commissions for a year and a half, not resolving the agricultural problems and even adding a further problem, that of not having an overall vision. In fact, you act on legal provisions always breaking them, chasing emergencies. We made proposals. Make it structural and clear what the government does when natural disasters occur that ruin the agricultural product. It's not just a matter of skill. Let us avoid the last moment's chases, which often and willingly seem more subject to the interest of this or that other political representative, than to the objective of really helping farmers in difficulty. Let's make structural intervention, let's make it clear what the government wants to do with agriculture when there are natural disasters. No, none of this; rejected this too. We would have liked to have spoken more seriously about the supervised bodies, but, in this case too, the link with agriculture is still; on this side, there are measures that touch some of the supervised bodies, but there is no response in terms of reform. Mr President, what is not working is the way we operate. As often happens - all the more so in agriculture - if we talk about this, there are positive aspects, but there are also shadows, which are very much present in this measure. That is why I declare the abstaining vote of the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u17	RUVOLO (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Mr President, I am firmly opposed to this measure. There are many reasons. Not having a reference group in the House, I can express myself quietly, unlike other Groups which, while contesting everything, eventually express an abstention vote. The Minister for Agriculture - unlike what Senator Candiani believes - is not here because there is no reason for him to be here. That's exactly what I think. In fact, what we are about to approve is an empty measure, which certainly does not help agriculture, on the contrary, in some respects, it does nothing but damage. The absence of the President of the Agriculture Commission is certainly due to the embarrassment of attending this work, which they have nothing to say. On the substance, I would like to ask - and I hope that the Deputy Minister, speaking at the close of the proceedings, can also give an answer - why this urgent decision has been taken. What's the point? Who was it for? To solve the problems of Italian agriculture? I don't think so. There is not a single article that can enable Italian agriculture to be developed or supported. Have you proposed the decree-law perhaps to cancel some bodies, such as the special commissioner for the so-called Agensud? It can be done, but it seems to me to be very trivial to resort to the urgent decree for this reason, just as I do not understand the use of the National Solidarity Fund as an emergency decree - which extraordinary invention! - to support those whose land has been devastated, for flood events and what else has occurred since 2012; should an answer have been given to them now? I still find it hard to understand. I could have better understood an urgent decree that had precise connotations. Many colleagues have said that, and I repeat that once again. When the news came of a decree-law for the relaunch of the agricultural sector, the first thing I thought was: finally Renzi with his Government and his majority keeps the word and eliminates the agricultural IMU. We were all thinking about this. But you joked about the agricultural IMU; you mocked not this Parliament, not this House or the other House, but the Italian farmers, who are in total collapse. Go and check - and I repeat this once again - what the revenue was. You have the tools to do that. At the end of 16 June, how many farmers and farms have paid the IMU? Please give us the answer, even now. From the data I have, it turns out that not even three percent of those who had to pay the agricultural IMU paid for it. And we have tabled all those amendments that you have declared unacceptable! Someone called them exploitable! Why? Give us a technical explanation, even if I want that policy. Is there a commitment of this Government at last to talk about this ignoble and hateful tax which is the agricultural IMU? We have nothing else to talk about. On the floods I said to use the Solidarity Fund. You should have done a lot of other things, such as encouraging and stimulating the conclusion of insurance policies and not saying that after the calamitous event you can use the National Solidarity Fund. Why? I would like to ask those who are not involved in this matter very humbly why the Solidarity Fund is not being used for the vast majority of insurance policies. So, what is this government's intention? What do we use that fund for? For the damage from the flood? The 2012 ones are certified, but the bureaucracy will do everything to never compensate for the damage to the agricultural companies. I could have understood whether it was a matter of giving priority to access not to soft loans, but to credit to help the world of agriculture breathe or whether it was the fight against counterfeiting. Today it has been said by all: orange juice without oranges; cheese without milk; ham without pork; everything and more, but absolute silence has dropped on this. I would like to speak, if I may be heard by the Government, about the vigilante bodies. The Agency for the disbursements in agriculture (Agea) has - I report it here once again - a hole of more than 50 million euros. These are the priorities. These are the emergencies, but there was no signal in this regard. The institution collapsed and consequently all other entities controlled by Agea. Is there an answer to that? Is it true that there is this huge hole in Agea's budget? That's not what we're supposed to know. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying once again that this world of agriculture is abandoned by all. In the speeches of the majority you will say that you have done, but what have you done? Nobody noticed. The farmers didn't notice. The world of agriculture did not notice. The only gift that the world of agriculture has received was an exotic agricultural IMU that no one can afford to pay anymore. These are the excellences of this country that you want to help, from the Expo to everything that has happened in Europe. Where have you still been to relate? During the Italian semester of agriculture, have you ever come to the Chamber? You have not actually come to this House even for more important reasons than this. Well, in the light of all this, once again I declare the absolute opposition to the provision to our examination because it is unfair and absolutely does not meet the needs of anyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u20	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I have some difficulty in imagining an explanation of vote on the content of this decree-law because the Senate has been declared almost incompetent on them. The temporal dynamic that has accompanied its evolution, first to the Chamber and then in the last few days to the Senate, has in fact anticipated the contents of a reform that is not yet law in Italy, but that in fact entrusts us to an idea of monocameralism. The Senate, at this stage, is called to a mere action of taking action of a work developed in the House that has certainly improved, thanks to the contribution of our colleagues, a plant born by the Government, but that has not allowed, in my opinion, to introduce any measure that was really useful to the Italian agricultural system. Once again, the path of buffer interventions has been chosen on some parts of the agricultural world and on some critical issues that concern it, but without being able to produce measures that are decisive of those same criticalities and creating discrasies that we will pay in the coming months, when we will face interventions that I hope are a little more organic, considering that there is no national policy for agriculture. The obvious discrasia is between an agricultural link that is still not given birth and a decree-law that is issued without any reason that justifies the use of the decree of urgency. I do not believe that the instrument of the urgent decree was necessary to address the issue of alluvial damage, once again addressed in emergent terms and for specific territorial situations and not with a framework idea that puts in place a solution that is triggered automatically when the territories or productions are invested by atmospheric events that now climate change indicates us more and more as constant and frequent. Here too, buffer interventions are imagined which very often, as has been shown in recent years, end up creating great unevenness of intervention between the territories. In fact, the interventions individually inspired often respond to the political dynamics of the moment in which they are put in the field, to the emotions linked to what appears more evident and often respond to a financial availability that perhaps, at that moment, allows to subtract resources on one side to put them on another and thus give an answer. In these years it has been evident that the response to intermittentness or the spot response on alluvial damage has created inequalities between the territories. There are territories in which an initiative has even been activated, for the energy of the Regions, through the contribution of the RDPs. There are territories in which, instead, as in this case we intervene a few years later and we intervene in an absolutely extemporaneous way. I think there were no grounds for urgency to justify this intervention. We should have better organised the work and the division of time between the House and the Senate in order to allow us to improve the text that, as conceived, does not satisfy us. I also see no reason for urgency to justify certain intervention measures, once again, on the subject of rationalization of the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and Forestry. Here too we are talking about milk quotas, and not only that, but we are not dealing with a serious problem. Faced with an inefficiency of the structures connected to the Mipaaf, such Dicastery does not want to assume the responsibility to take the coordination. We can no longer imagine that these activities are in the hands and coordination of SIAN and Agea, because in recent years they have shown that they have not been able to achieve it and have very often created financial holes and inefficiencies that hang on the heads of farmers. There is no farmer in Italy who does not show a sense of dissatisfaction with the structures connected to the Mipaaf. We cannot intervene every month with an extemporaneous measure that straightens the shot on one side and does not understand that, instead, we must make an overall reasoning. What about insufficient responses to plant health emergencies? Here there was a need to launch an emergency measure, especially for some phytosanitary emergencies that affect some areas of our country, but that it would be wrong to imagine that can be confined only to the interest of that territorial area. The whole world of science, in fact, shows us the danger that those emergencies will soon be able to invest the entire national olive sector. And it is a mistake to confine to the territorial interest an emergency that risks becoming devastating for the national olive sector. Here too there have been some answers with the birth of a national olive-growing plan which, as it is inspired, is certainly appreciable, but as it is then imagined to achieve it is absolutely insufficient for model inspiration but above all for financial capacity and availability of resources that, in this case too, are not additional resources, are not resources that are dedicated to agriculture as an additional element of support, but resources that we take away from one side to put them on the other. Then in six months' time, if there is a "problem" (but I hope not) to the dairy sector, we will remove these resources from the olive sector and put them back in the dairy sector, playing an unbearable game of the three cards that has been characterizing the agriculture government for at least 10 years. Finally, I believe that it was absolutely inappropriate to imagine that a whole series of amendments could not even be declared impossible. Instead, they would have allowed us to discuss another time here about the unbearableness of an asset on agricultural land. An asset, the IMU, which was conceived a few years ago and which does not want to be convinced that it is absolutely necessary to change. And it must be changed at least when its violence becomes unstoppable and even falls on areas affected by plant health diseases. It was a mistake to prevent a debate in the Commission and in this House, because that debate would certainly have qualified a measure that is absolutely insufficient and unable to solve the problems for which it was imagined. The reasons are of method and merit. I have said this in the Commission and I am sorry that President Formigoni is not here today either: the Senate Committee on Agriculture needs to re-appropriate a role; it is not possible for him to act as a letterhead in relation to the work done in the House, because this is now becoming a somewhat unbearable ritual in some respects. On the basis of both merit and method, I therefore declare our abstention to this measure, because if it were to try to introduce some kind of light, the unwillingness to deal with more detail some elements that are introduced will not allow agriculture to achieve any additional or appreciable result. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u23	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Minister Olivero, yesterday I had the opportunity to express the evaluations of the Group for the Autonomous Islands and today I am voting in favour of this measure, which is certainly an important step after that of the agricultural link. Soon after we will talk about social agriculture: we note, therefore, that agriculture has returned to the center of parliamentary work and of the interest of the Government, also thanks to the Expo of Milan that has as its central theme the diet of the planet. In light of this, the interventions we heard between yesterday and today in this House, some containing critical accents, I take them as a positive stimulus to reaffirm that agriculture is really the primary sector of Italy; a strategic sector because it brings together opportunities for economic development and stable youth employment; it aims at environmental balance, because the cultivation of land can only stabilise the estate of the territory; it is the only opportunity, it is the only form of territorial garrison for a territory to be truly guarded, controlled and managed, possibly in a correct and prudent way, and it is also a great element of social cohesion because only a cultivated and inhabited territory is a living territory, which expresses ideas and proposals: it develops and can also express tourist and craft potentials because - I repeat - an abandoned territory will be beautiful, it will be still intact, but nobody likes it because it is dead or otherwise destined to die. That is why we look forward to a follow-up to this measure, which solves some pressing problems. I would like to thank Deputy Minister Olivero for the constant attention he has received and which he still has within the Senate Agriculture Commission, but in general in the comparison and relationship with all the agricultural realities, which must certainly be reorganized and which need to be slimmed down and also summarized in their tasks. We need to better understand who does what; who has the responsibility to do it and the times when it is done. We must also have the courage to make choices: where there are dry branches, offices that do not work, redundant bodies - and there are, the Deputy Minister knows well - we must have the courage to cut, to simplify; we must have the courage to finally turn this cumbersome system into a turning point that risks penalising companies. All the events that we have experienced and are living around the preparation and approval of the rural development plans, which are the real operational tool for the companies, for the territories in order to operate and carry out serious policies of agricultural development, are there to show us. The difficulties I highlighted yesterday regarding the preparation and submission of applications, which are likely to penalise farmers in reducing premiums, are also an emergency that cannot be underestimated. In the background, the difficult relationship with the European Union: the abolition of the milk quota regime assumes positive aspects in some respects but negative for others (surely for mountain areas it is a very strong danger). Therefore, I hope that the Government will be able to find the measures both at Community level and above all at national level, but also at regional level and in the Autonomous Provinces, in order to compensate for the objective difficulty that is likely to make the zootechnics disappear from the rough and difficult terrain of the mountain. This is therefore a request, indeed, an invitation to keep strong attention on the agricultural sector also as a great tool of the revival of Made in Italy and to valorize the local and regional differences and the many excellences we have in Italy, as well as to face the emergency caused by the annoying xylella and other pathogens that unfortunately are creating great problems to our agricultural heritage. I hope that the Government will be able to devote the appropriate resources to the sector, in line with the broad assurances we have received these days. Olive growers cannot, in fact, be left alone when they are faced with a real emergency and must do so with great determination and in an extensive form, which obviously involves considerable expenditure. The call is therefore also not to underestimate the agricultural sector, on the basis of all the issues that are being launched at the Expo in Milan, and to fully grasp its strategic role. I am sure that you, Mr Vice-Minister, will be able to interpret this requirement which Parliament has also highlighted today with regard to Mr Martina.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u26	WRITER IN TOR (AP) (NCD-UDC). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under consideration, which contains provisions relating to the dairy and olive-oil sector, as well as support for agricultural undertakings affected by exceptional events and the rationalization of certain ministerial structures, is an important step in the process of unblocking the agricultural sector. The delicate transitional phase in which the dairy sector is located, as well as the period of serious difficulties experienced by the olive-oil sector, requires urgent and appropriate measures to support and protect products through which Italy has a position of absolute leadership in its markets. With regard to the olive sector, an intervention and support plan, as well as the provision of resources to compensate producers for damage caused by diseases and natural disasters, are all the more essential and important tools, if directly linked to those innovation processes that are affecting the agri-food sector, of which I am convinced supporter. Moreover, supporting the eradication of pathogens from other continents means investing in the protection of biodiversity, the environment and natural resources. In this respect, I should like to point out the need to act as soon as possible to protect also those olive growers who have seen their production destroyed by pathogens other than xylella, such as the oil fly. In order to produce lasting fruits, the policies put in place today must in fact be expanded and fed with constancy. All this represents a first fundamental support for dairy producers and especially olive trees, a support that has been kept waiting too long. The draft law therefore lays down urgent provisions for the recovery of the productive and competitive potential of the olive-oil sector and establishes a national solidarity fund for companies affected by alluvial events and infections by organisms harmful to plants, with priority for damage related to the spread of the annoying xylella, the cynipid of the chestnut, diseases such as the golden flavescence. Access to the fund is also extended to adverse weather conditions, damage and stocks of materials caused by exceptional events over the last three years. The National Solidarity Fund for Fisheries and Aquaculture is then financed, the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policies are rationalised, and the single national Commissions for the most representative sectors of the agricultural and food system are finally to be set up to ensure transparency in contractual relations between market operators and price formation. As regards milk quotas, the decree-law aims to provide an immediate response to the need to govern the first months of the new regime and, on the other hand, also to lay the foundations for the urgent reorganization of trade relations of the supply chain. The aim is, therefore, to accompany the management of the supply chain, while fully respecting the freedom of the reference market, with rules of transparency and balance between the different stages and stages of the supply chain. As regards the new scheme, referred to in Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which applies to new standard contracts for the purchase of milk, this provides that such contracts are concluded before delivery, contain a fixed price fixed in the contract and calculated on the market indicators and indicate the volume assigned and the quality and composition of the raw milk delivered. The new type of contract also contains rules for the greater protection of producers, providing for deadlines and payment procedures, arrangements for the collection and delivery of milk, rules applicable in cases of force majeure and resolution clauses. For all these reasons, thanking the Committee on Agriculture, which has worked very well, the rapporteur, Mrs Bertuzzi, and you, Mr Vice-Minister, give a positive opinion on the measure and announce the vote in favour of the People's Area Group. [[Applause from Senator Rossi Luciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u29	WOMAN (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. Words, words, words. (Senator Donno plays the song "Words" by Mina and Alberto Lupo.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The choir is not expected. Please, Senator. WOMAN (M5S). Mina sang this song. Too bad there's nothing to sing in here, but it's just to cry and make a bitter cry for what you're up to and you're going to keep going. The last seven days have been a catastrophe: we have been engaged to examine various decrees-laws, urgent and important decrees, which should have been deepened, evaluated and discussed. There was yet another farce with this decree, which arrived in the armored Chamber. It is now serially happening and we should be used to receiving these decrees in this House, but in reality we do not get used to it, because we hope that maybe once it is different from the other and that it changes something, trusting in the enlightenment of your consciences. We hope, but you do not change, there is no way: keep going and follow the orders of a puppet master. The electoral period has seen us all involved in the election campaign, but the difference between us and you is that we have not made promises. You, on the other hand, have made promises that, as soon as you have arrived in this Chamber, you will try to keep it, giving the people who, during the election campaign, asked you to make marches. Here we are discussing decree-laws such as those on competitiveness, simplification, or so-called unblocking Italy, good school, agricultural revival: all names you constantly use to try to bring your results beyond this House. In fact, these are perfect "porcate" because they do not change the situation of the agricultural world, of the farmers: nothing changes, on the contrary, the situation worsens, without considering that you always draw from the agricultural sector the resources to be allocated to other sectors. Simplification is then transformed into bureaucratization; it unlocks Italy becomes an Italian entanglement; good school is transformed into the worst school that has been possible in the last 40 years; competitiveness becomes indolence and, in terms of competitiveness, we must say that yet another wand has arrived from the European Union, which we will be discussing in 14a. Commission, policies of the European Union. Brussels sends us to say that Italy has not been able to remedy the infringement procedure to which we should have met with the competition decree. We will therefore have sanctions on sanctions to try to remedy an infringement that Italy had already had to remedy for a long time. No, we don't. We keep making mistakes. Of course, it is true that we are dealing with a Head of Government who, in his unlikely statements, speaks of himself to the third person. So what can be expected more from a person who even assumes the existence of a "Renzi 1" and a "Renzi 2"? This is the level to which we have arrived: trips without return, with myths on board as a mad conductor who, among other things, leads us to the catastrophe. These are delusions of omnipotence. Today we are talking about agriculture; or, better, yesterday and a month ago we should have really talked about agriculture and the relaunch we are talking about today. But what raise? Raise what? I hear: "I am in favour, I am glad that this decree can give the relaunch." But what raise? The raise of what? What are we talking about? What do you want the citizens to believe? There is no raise, because this is nothing but the umpteenth decree that comes armored, on which it was not possible to put trust, but it is as if you had done so. It's yet another imposition, it's yet another word, I steal all of them, and I'll leave them for you after that. This is for those who do it, as well as to give yet another chance to Expo? Because that's what you're working on. This is done for "troika mom, " for "grandmother masonry," for "bank aunts," for "cousin ENI" and so forth. But for Mr. Antonio, for Mr. Francesco, for Mr. Giuseppe, what do you do? For farmers' citizens, for ordinary citizens, for those who are not used to your combos, what do you do? Nothing. We are talking about a question of method, because that is what must be done: method and content. In the Committee on Agriculture, we have not used either one or the other. There are no contents for which it is possible to talk about a revival measure. I hear about precautionary measures. Yes, it's true, all the precautionary measures that have been issued against you, that's what we're talking about. But there are no protective measures in this measure. This decree-law has arrived already ready and packaged: it is your package, no wonder. The game must be closed and you want to close it quickly; so stop us from discussing, evaluating, proceeding to amend, to be closer to the people who really work the earth. There is to say when and how you went to the territories. When? To make the media catwalks; once the spotlight is turned off, completely disappeared from the territories that have suffered floods or calamities, because you no longer care and therefore abandoned them. You should be more present on the territories. We did it: we were there before and after. During the spotlight, you were there. And what have you solved, what have you put in this decree-law? Nothing at all. We have made common sense proposals and we have asked for contributions to be made on the basis of territorial data and needs and not with abstract criteria; but you have refused this possibility. We have asked that trade associations or professional associations of farmers should be included in the committees; but you did not accept that. We asked for natural disasters and states of emergency to be declared in time and not after years or months, at best, so that the territory could have its chance of recovery; but you did not accept this either. We have asked to include Italian products and food in communities, canteens, pensioners and in all those places where you can eat healthy and you have not accepted. Clearly, you could not accept, because otherwise how can there continue to be exchanges of bribes and bribes to give the possibility to this or that multinational one to enter even more in Italy? It's a cheap policy, the one you're developing. (at 10.30 a.m.) (Following WOMAN). We're not in. Companies must be supported, helped and protected, as well as made in Italy, and that is what we continue to do. I conclude by saying that agriculture cannot always be the usual sector from which the whole resource is taken and farmers are not your ATM. Contact the banks so dear to you: turn elsewhere, but not to the agricultural sector. For these reasons and for others which, unfortunately, for lack of time, I cannot explain (we are given these few minutes and not others, because they are afraid that we can say so much), our vote will abstain, because we do not take the responsibility to mortify the agricultural sector and the farmers again. Take it from you and give it all the credit, but above all, all the responsibility. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u30	I would like to say to the House that the Burmese journalist Tunn, who is a guest of the Senate, is present in the Forums, to whom we wish to express our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u33	SCOMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the decree-law before us is intended to support our agriculture by means of a series of direct economic measures and tax concessions. In our modest assessment, these measures appear to be very, very weak, partly conflicting with previous measures and once again extemporaneous. Agriculture is a sector that, by its nature, is not standing with the sole strength of the market, especially in a globalized market where there are countries that, having the favor of a very low labour cost, enjoying the benevolence of more favorable weather conditions and having less pervasive control rules, can produce at much lower costs than those of Europe and, in particular, those of Italy. It is now a common view that European agricultural policies, regulated by the CAP, pay for what are considered public goods that do not have a market value: environmental protection, animal health, safety and food quality. With this in mind too, any action to relaunch agriculture should be supported. After the harassment suffered by farmers in the agricultural IMU, which deprived them of about 270 million euros, come now from this decree-law about fifty million euros, coated on several interventions and compartments within the sector. Let's say then that, given the beating suffered by land taxation, the agricultural sector is still largely on credit in the match between giving and having against the whole of the interventions in the field of agriculture decided by the Renzi government. Italy is serving an additional production gap in a considerable part of its territory, considering the different geographical, altimetric and environmental distribution of the long and jagged territory of the peninsula: hence the additional need for the aid and the facilities proposed, however, are partial and as usual discretionary. In addition, the Decree-Law contains some measures which tend to bring back the age-old problem of milk quotas, which, for too long a period (more than thirty years: from 1984 to March this year), has anguish for the lives of cattle farmers. We believe that milk quotas have become obsolete - it took too many years to understand this - in the same European discipline that had recklessly established them. There are still the surpluses of the payment of the additional levy on beef milk, which we hope will be settled decisively and definitively. The fines are still too high. If the milk quota regime ends and farmers are given a little time off on the fines applied in the 2014-2015 marketing year, however, through the provision of a instalment, we could have expected less pressing penalties, as our Group had proposed in the Commission with several amendments. An amount relating to fines of around 62 million remains to be paid in instalments, which, if different European negotiations had taken place, Italy could have completely avoided paying. A fine on those who produce more milk, in a Europe still surrounded by a deep economic crisis, in front of a part of the world that still sees people starving is something really incomprehensible. Fortunately, this unfortunate and disturbing chapter of European policies in this area is finally closed. Related to exceeding the quota of milk production through the quota system is the problem of the effects on the dairy production chain. Therefore, the recognition of interbranch organisations in the sector is the same in order to provide subsidies for the promotion of milk products. It is a little too complex a mechanism, which perhaps would have been better simplified. Agriculture is still serving, like other sectors of production, but perhaps even more than others, this bureaucratic effect incumbent on it. A normal farmer, who often lives away from the major centers where there are professional organizations that manage to give him support, finds himself wrapped in 1,000 bureaucratic practices, difficult to contemplate alone and without additional costs for his farm. Then, again in the decree-law, there are provisions to deal with the various emergencies that have recently hit agriculture. First of all the emergency of the olive-oil sector that suffers a crisis due to the presence of markets that, as we said in the premise, are close to us and have production costs far lower than ours. Four million for this year are put together, which are a little bit to think of undertaking serious restructuring of the sector, and 14 million for each year 2016 and 2017. Moreover, the sector benefits from the fact that it has seen an important part of the Italian olive trees affected by xylella disease, for which is given the resounding figure of one million euros. But also other diseases or natural events that unfortunately affect our agricultural territories, here are not taken into consideration. There are a number of sectors and products not covered by the decree-law, for example that of the kiwi, so badly hit during this last season. There is no greater safety in a production sector of high randomity and thus subject to seasonality and diseases (often due to the globalization of plants and the consequent sharing of diseases that carry plants that must adapt to climates, soils and altitudes often different from those of origin). Improved safety means concentrating farmers on their worthwhile core business, which is to produce healthy and quality products and animals. That's why they need certainties. They need to recover on their real estate, the land, which is then the instrumental asset with which they produce every day, the certainty of a balanced taxation and not hostile. The agricultural IMU must be abolished and the resources released should be left to investment in the sector. There is an immensity of resources to be devoted to Italian agriculture, which the Renzi Government has taken away from them and which this decree does not compensate. Honestly, we would have expected more courage from the government in providing more efficient and decisive support measures to influence the many problems afflicting the agricultural sector. But it is known that agriculture has never been at the top of this government's agenda: re-evaluation of cadastral incomes; increase in excise duties on diesel; decrease in oil quotas for heteroculture, IMU on agricultural land. But what more do we have to add? For these reasons, the Forza Italia Group will vote against the measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u36	SAGGESE (PD). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are called upon to convert into law today is a very dense text which, in addition to giving urgent answers to the agricultural sectors affected by crises and exceptional events, also intervenes with provisions for rationalising procedures and bodies, with a view to simplification and transparency, pillars of the political action of the Renzi Government rather than bureaucratic appeasement, as someone yesterday wanted to support. In the past years agriculture has always represented the Cinderella of the policies of the governments of the center-right, dear Senator Tarquinio (which I am sorry not to see in the Chamber now). The absence of the Minister of Agricultural Policy at many European tables and the absence of the ministers of the centre-right, from Zaia to Galan, have unfortunately made us miss many important opportunities on Community agricultural policy and especially on the fisheries sector. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Today we are at a decisive change of pace, we are at the idea of a competitive and innovative agriculture that contributes authoritatively to the economic growth of the country. The number of people employed in the agricultural sector, according to an analysis carried out by Coldiretti for the fourth quarter of last year, has in fact grown by an average of 7.1 percent and at a historical stage such as today, in which the unemployment rate is very high and reaches very high points in the case of the youngest, the increase in employment in the sector is the clear sign that the measures that are being taken gradually go in the right direction. During the parliamentary debate, many comments were made, some of them quite inaccurate, and I must therefore clarify some of the issues. First of all, the issue of interbranch organisations: only in order to avoid anyone being able, voluntarily or in good faith, to confuse interbranch organisations and trade associations, I would point out that interbranch organisations, in accordance with Community legislation, are made up of representatives of economic activities related to production and at least one of the stages of the supply chain (transformation or trade-distribution) of products in one or more sectors. It is therefore quite clear that interbranch organisations are not constituted - and cannot be regarded in any way as overlapping - of trade associations which, at most, can guarantee their institutional advisory activities. The rule in this regard is very clear: Article 3, paragraph 2, of the Decree-Law provides, in fact, that interbranch organisations can associate, with a purely consultative function, the representative organisations of consumers and workers in the agricultural and agri-food sector, only in order to ensure a more effective exercise of their institutional activities. Again with regard to interbranch organisations and even to the fearful hypothesis of unconstitutionality, let it be clear first of all that we are simply applying Community regulations here. Indeed, Senator D'Ali does not escape that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union expressly recognizes to the European regulations the obligatoryness of all their elements. But there is more. The aim of the inter-branch organisation is to facilitate the aggregation of companies, allowing operators in the sector, often in a fragmented production environment, to have greater bargaining power. If the question is the contribution, which someone raised yesterday, here too the rule is very clear in identifying those who might be required an economic contribution. They are exclusively the subjects to whom the valid rules Erga omnes apply. It is therefore, Senator D'Alì, rather than a hidden tax, a contribution to the benefits and services of which the operators concerned would be able to enjoy, benefits that could not be otherwise assured if the contribution of those who benefit from it, and this seems to me a measure of absolute equity rather than a hidden tax. To my dear friend Ruvolo, whom I thank very much because with his passionate speeches he always offers us the opportunity to provide useful information to the citizens, I want to say two basic things. The first is that the sector, which he believes is abandoned, will receive in the coming years EUR 25 billion - I repeat, EUR 25 billion - of which 29 will be paid directly to companies. Dear Senator Ruvolo, I would also like to point out that, since the beginning of the legislature, despite the fact that this Government is facing all the points of structural fragility of the agricultural system, you continue to describe a catastrophic scenario for Italian agriculture, which fortunately is punctually denied by the macroeconomic data of the sector, and also disrespectful towards those enterprises that over the years, with great self-denial and sacrifices, have undertaken to rebuild a sustainable income, despite the various disattentions of the governments of center-right. It is no coincidence that the European Union, as has been repeatedly mentioned during the debate these days, has asked Italy for information on the ban on the holding and use of milk powder for cheeses and yoghurt. It is a known and widespread news in all newspapers that the request for intervention in Brussels for the modification of the Italian law that bans the use of milk powder to produce cheese and yoghurt, has been urged by an Italian congressman elected to the European Parliament in the ranks of the North League before and of Forza Italia then. That's where the reminder comes from! [[Applause from the PD Group.]] But the Democratic Party and the Government are committed to fully defending the quality of our dairy system and the transparency of the information to be given to consumers. We must defend the exception of Italian legislation compared to the other countries of the Union, although we are aware that our productions of PDO and PGI origins (parmesan, grana padano, buffalo mozzarella and all other dairy products made in Italy) are protected and protected by the appropriate disciplinary measures, which remain totally unrelated to any hypothesis of harmonisation. Another issue on which the debate of recent days has focused has been that of the agricultural IMU. Given that the issue is not and could not be the subject of this measure, as is well known to most, it is clear and clear - and we have said so in every way - that both branches of Parliament have expressed their views on a rethinking of IMU taxation on the agricultural sector. With regard to this position, the Government has undertaken to make a proposal in the context of the overall review of local taxation and the Democratic Party's parliamentary group is working in this direction. I understand that you are probably short of arguments and that every time in any measure you always put the theme of agricultural IMU at the centre [[Applause from Senator Donno]] , but you should also focus on other issues of merit, which we are also dealing with and which are interesting for the future development of Italian agriculture. Finally, I have a duty to make one final point: there has been talk of a violation of the rules of the market and of the competition which would be inherent in the establishment of the national single committees for the supply chains representative of the agricultural and food system; instead, I would point out that the aim of the rule provided for in Article 6a goes exactly in the opposite direction to the complaints. The creation of the national single committees is, in fact, the objective of ensuring once again transparency in contractual relations and price formation. The mechanism does not affect in any way the dynamics of pricing established by operators; indeed, since the commissions indicate price quotations that, completely freely, can (or not) be used, is simply offering to the operators of the sector a further instrument and a further service for the free determination of the contractual elements. [[Call the president back.]] I'm done. In conclusion, I do not want to repeat here (my colleagues have already done it better than I have these days) the innovations and structural measures included in the measure (the National Olive Plan of 32 million euros, inter-branch organisations, investments in plant diseases adapted to the dimension of the risk we are going through, the efficiency of the SIAN), I would be curious - and, like myself, all the friends of the Group - to understand and understand the diversity of behaviour of the opposition groups of the House and Senate, considering that the provision (this same measure) has been approved without votes against. Evidently, there are places where responsibility for dealing with the real problems of citizens and businesses prevails over party tactics. [[Ironic applause from Senator Donno]] A missed opportunity to share, unfortunately, on a measure that places a further piece in order to make Italian agriculture become increasingly competitive to meet the challenges of the international market. It is for these reasons that the Democratic Party Group will vote strongly in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u37	There is a representation of students of the Master's degree in institutional communication of the University of Rome Tor Vergata, who is attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u39	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u40	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, Mrs Saggese is quite right when she says that many ministers have not come to Europe, but the important thing is to show up knowing what is being done. If Minister Martina had agreed to increase the amount of fat in milk today we would not pay this EUR 28 million fine. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In addition to being there, we also need to have clearer ideas. I am voting in favour of this measure by my group, because I think it is very unfair, especially with regard to the milk problem. They move four of the eight million allocated, that is 117 euros per company, to another sector, with the game of the three cards. It is also important to talk about the CUN, an element that, before extending it, must be made to work. Mantua CUN doesn't work: count how many times Thursday morning doesn't work. Something that doesn't work first makes a working prototype and then extends it. Moreover, no account is taken of all the legal disputes that have arisen over the years. For this reason and for other reasons I shall vote against this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u41	I put to the vote the bill, composed of only article 1. It's approved. WOMAN (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is There is absolutely no reason to rehearse. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u42	The next item is the debate on document IV-a, No 2, which contains: Report by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the request for authorisation to proceed to trial under Article 96 of the Constitution against Senator Giulio Tremonti as Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance, as well as Mr Enrico Vitali, Mr Pier Francesco Guarguaglini and Mr Alessandro Pansa, each partly for the offences referred to in Articles 110, 319 and 321 of the Criminal Code (corruption for acts contrary to office duties) The report has been printed and distributed. The Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities decided unanimously to propose to the Assembly to declare the incompetence of the Senate, pursuant to paragraph 4 of Rule 135- bis of the Rules of Procedure, given the non-ministeriality of the offences referred to in the document in title, resulting in the return of acts to the judicial authority. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Stefano, whether he intends to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u43	Mr President, I am going back to the written report because I believe that the issue on which the Junta has questioned itself and then decided is sufficiently developed. I believe that the report gives the House and all the senators sufficient content to express themselves. I will therefore rely on the report and, if necessary, I will reply in the event of further evidence emerging.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u44	As you have not been included in the debate, we shall proceed with the vote on the Junta report. Before putting to the vote the proposal to return the documents, I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 135-a (8) of the Rules of Procedure, if the aforementioned proposal is rejected, the documents will be returned to the Council to enable it to present further conclusions. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Junta's proposal. WOMAN (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Junta's proposal to declare the incompetence of the Senate, pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 135- bis of the Regulation, given the non-ministeriality of the offences referred to in the document under consideration, resulting in the return of the acts to the judicial authority. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u45	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1259. I call on all my fellow Members who are interested in this matter, since it is a measure that is repeatedly delayed over the various weeks, to contain as much as possible the speeches so that we can approve it this week, which would be good and fair. The rapporteur, Senator Fornaro, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u46	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are dealing with today, which is a delegation to the Government for the reform of the trust system, is of parliamentary origin. The first signatory is my colleague Gianluca Rossi. I believe that, if I were to talk about confids, I would quote the term credit crunch of the credit crunch, perhaps I would receive a little more attention. If there is one phenomenon that has characterized the long crisis that we have been experiencing since 2008 it is precisely this credit crunch, an increasing difficulty of access to credit paid to companies. I would like to give colleagues some data and say that things have not gone the same way for everyone. The credit crunch has seen a strong diversification. In the period 2010-2013, corporate companies had... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u47	Excuse me, Senator Fornaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u48	Colleagues, please who is near the Commission table to be silent. Mr Fornaro, rapporteur. I try to give some data to better explain also the importance of this measure: corporate companies, therefore large companies, have had a decrease in the credit paid from 2010 to 2013 by 3%, small and medium-sized enterprises by 9% and micro-enterprises by 13%. So the credit crunch wasn't the same for everyone. Although the picture of the Italian business system gives us this data back, the micro-enterprises are 94.9% of the total and 47.8% of the employees are employed in micro-enterprises; the small and medium-sized enterprises, the so-called SMEs, are 4.5% of the enterprises and employ 20.9% of the employees; the average enterprises are 0.5% and employ 12.3 of the employees and finally the large enterprises are 0.1 percent of the total enterprises and employ 19 percent of the employees. The trust system has therefore played an extremely important role in all these years. It has a long history which is based on a system of mutuality which has been and must, in our opinion, become even more an instrument of industrial policy. Well, the trust system in the same period (2010-2013) had a fall in guarantees of 7 billion (- 18%) and today it has about 40 billion guaranteed credits. The reality of the confids is an Italian reality of which we should be proud because 45% of the companies associated with the entire system of European confids are Italian, 20% French, 7% German and 7% Spanish. That is, the confids are a peculiar Italian reality, extremely important, diffused and rooted in the territory. In this regard, there are two issues to be addressed: the first relates to public policies on guarantees to facilitate access to credit, which include, in addition to the State, the Regions, and the second, delicate and important, concerns the fact that through the draft law delegation we would like to be able to develop the theme of the role of the Central Guarantee Fund. The objectives set out in the draft law delegate to our examination for the reform are the following: the valorization of the role of the trusts, precisely for the reasons and the numbers that I tried to explain before; the simplification of the compliances (which is extremely important in the presence of a reality, in some cases pulviscolare, of the system of the trusts that must be helped to grow considering anyway the topic of the compliances); a reduction of the costs to them and therefore, consequently, of the costs that are then discharged on the enterprises; a strengthening of assets - extremely important aspect - therefore a greater capitalization also in the light of the changes in the ratings and the system of assessment of the credits of the banking system with the European supervision; favor the collection of public and private resources, of capital and provisions; better regulate public authorities' contributions to the guarantee funds of the trust system in compliance with European State aid rules; rationalise the guarantee and counter-guarantee chain; achieve greater synergy between the national central guarantee fund and the trusts (avoiding what has been a negative phenomenon over the last two or three years, in the view of the Commission as a whole, i.e. the displacement of a direct reliance of the enterprise system on the central guarantee fund by skipping the trust system); develop innovative instruments (even if the Commission has made a clear no to derivatives or in any case complex financial instruments); improve access to credit and, finally, (which we will also see developed in one order of the day), use of trusts as a tool for improving the financial education of enterprises and for the activation of an advisory system especially for the micro-enterprise system. On the substance, I think it is right to report back to the House on the work done in the Commission, thanking, in addition to the President, all the Commissioners. It has been a long and valuable work, which has led substantially to these changes in relation to the basic text. Article 112 of the single bank text (TUB) assigns to the Ministry of Economy and Finance, after consulting the Bank of Italy, the task of determining the objective criteria, referring to the volume of financial activity, on the basis of which are identified the trusts required to apply for authorization to register in the register ex Article 106 of the TUB. This framework allows registered entities to operate more effectively than other trusts, taking into account their being subject to prudential supervision. The registration in the register takes over for the purposes of recognising the guarantees of trusts under the prudential supervision provisions for banks and other supervised intermediaries. Indeed, under the credit risk mitigation techniques framework, guarantees issued by financial intermediaries subject to a supervisory regime equivalent to that of banks are treated as those issued by banks. Recently, the Bank of Italy issued the circular that concerns the world of supervised confids that, as mentioned, are the biggest confids with a volume of financial activity increased from 75 to 150 million euros. The collective guarantee of exposures to consortium undertakings or members is represented by the use of resources from all or part of the member undertakings for the mutual and entrepreneurial provision of guarantees aimed at encouraging their financing by banks and other entities operating in the financial sector. In 2014 they were listed under Article 106 of the TUB 61 trusts; the subjects not supervised on the same date were 495 (derived from the hearing of the Bank of Italy); it must be borne in mind that 75 percent of the total guarantees are issued by the supervised trusts (i.e. those of the largest dimension). Also in the supervised sector the concentration is very high, considering that the two largest confids constitute about one third of the total volume of guarantees. The Finance Commission has made improvements to the original text in order to better specify certain provisions. In the preamble, I recall that the draft law is a parliamentary initiative: it is not only a procedural notation, but also a political notation, demonstrating that, while it is a delegation to the Government and therefore an intervention that has as co-legislator in the second line the Executive, on the subject the sensitivity of Parliament is high and meets the expectations of the operators of the system. During the investigation, the hearings confirmed the goodness of the chosen path and made it possible to focus on some issues worthy of further examination and amendment which the Commission accepted. First of all, it has been noted that the reality of confids has spread over the years also to professionals. This is important, as we will see later. There are, in fact, some amendments tabled by my colleague, Mr Caridi, which I will ask to be withdrawn, precisely because we have already recovered this issue in the text, but earlier it was the business world that was more operational on this front. Hence the amendment to paragraph 1. Beyond the lexical clarification of the regulatory reference to the principles of the Basel Agreement on the capitalisation requirements of banks (as referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1), the amendment to point (b), which has an essential principle aimed at regulating the front of the public contribution for the purpose of increasing the capitalization of the trusts, specifies that in this provision it will not be allowed to grant subordinated to territorial constraints that can alter the conditions of entry of new subjects in this field. In point (c), the Commission has addressed the issue of the relationship between the Central Guarantee Fund and the trusts: this is a strategic issue, as I mentioned earlier. In theory, the Fund's counter-guarantee compared to that granted by the trusts reduces counterparty risk and also makes the loan provided by the bank of better quality for the purpose of calculating its capital requirements. In the reality of recent years, as the hearings have pointed out, the role of the Guarantee Fund has not only been additional, but often replaced, achieving the displacement effect that I mentioned earlier. It is, as I said, a salient point that highlights the need for a wider budget from the Central Fund and the need to rationalise the forms of intervention, as set out in the principle of delegation. As indicated by the Bank of Italy in 2013 and 2014, the impaired guarantees increased in a worrying way for the overall balances. By way of example, 46 out of 60 supervised confids closed the 2013 loss-making budget. Another question raised at the hearing concerns the operational instruments of the guarantee. The Commission has chosen to give a broad delegation to the Government in identifying innovative instruments, since they are also evolving subjects, but considering that the Government cannot, in the implementation of the delegation, include derivatives or in any case types of complex financial instruments. The further amendments were made in response to the comments of the Budgetary Committee. In recalling the importance of the work carried out by the Commission, I conclude by hoping that the House will also be able to confirm the unanimous vote which characterised the work of the Commission. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u49	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u50	Mr President, we have just heard a comprehensive and thorough report from the rapporteur, Mr Fornaro, which is also very precise in contextualizing the role and history of our trusts and the reality that they live today. The trusts are one of the main resources to support the needs of the real economy through concrete action. They are structures of a purely associative matrix, which carry out their activity in the name of that solidarity between enterprises that has led our system to grow an instrument like this with proportions far superior to those of other countries, also thanks to a history of solidarity, cooperation and mutual support. In fact, they act with a logic of mutuality, of recognition of the values of territorial roots - another very important aspect - but above all of proximity and direct knowledge of enterprises. If even the Italian banking system had kept the attention to these values alive, perhaps we would have spared ourselves some displeasure even in the course of this financial crisis that we are still living. The use of confidences, then, is also a vehicle of economic policy and a tool to loosen that propensity to risk, which of course must have the financial system, but which also led us to risk and then live a credit crunch of the proportions we have known. In the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, this role of intermediary for access to bank credit is now very valuable. The more valuable the business of trusts, the more businesses operate in periods of credit rationing. Added to this is a lively, vital, and strongly supported also by the actions of the Government - of this as of the previous ones - support to the enterprises in a phase like this, where the rationing of the credit, in part deriving from the crisis, partly deriving from the modifications that in the European regulation, not only Italian, leads us to demand instruments and elements of capitalization ever greater. The rapporteur was Mr Fornaro Basel 4. Here, in Basel 4, if we do not fully understand the dangers of our financial system, and therefore the economic system, we risk taking some cantonata. But the role of the confids can help us in this regard, because precisely the financial crisis, the one of 2007, the most dramatic, has shown how the confids have not only been extraneous to the causes of the crisis - and this is always important to remember - but, in times of more restrictive credit policies, today they are a vital and fundamental tool for the access to credit of small and medium-sized enterprises. The data provided by Banca d'Italia during the hearings are all important; it has remembered them before Fornaro and I do not want to go back to the numbers, but I remember that 75% of the total guarantees in existence are attributable to the supervised trusts. There is therefore an absolute value, not only in terms of numbers, but also in terms of quality, on the part of the larger trusts in truly supporting businesses. A somewhat different photograph, however, was outlined in the 2014 report by the Turin Finance Committee, in its 2015 research "I confidi in Italy."I think that from there too we need to draw some ideas to be able to reach the vote of a text that is certainly good, the result of a unanimous work, which we would like to continue to support, in order to support our companies. Finally, I would like to thank the President of the Marino Mauro Commission, the rapporteur, Mr Fornaro, and all the members of the Finance Committee, for doing this excellent work. [[Applause from Senator Marino Mauro Maria.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vacciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u52	Mr President, by saying that I reserve the right to make a brief statement in an explanation of vote, I take advantage of this opportunity to briefly explain the agenda proposals that I have tabled, considering that they qualify as part of this legal measure, because they may cover a few minor shortcomings. However, I would like to reiterate that this bill is the result of shared work, in order to obtain the best possible product, which would meet the needs of such a delicate sector as much as possible. I would like to stress the three issues that I have dealt with together with my colleagues on the agenda. Firstly, there is a need for basic financial training for small and medium-sized enterprises. Without any direct intervention to the trusts contained in the measure, it is essential that those working in small and medium-sized enterprises have basic financial training, enabling them to distangle themselves in the whole world of credit and to consciously choose the products best suited to their specific business activity, avoiding the most risky ones. We do not ask to have financial experts, but that there is basic training, which is essential, as is putting in place training campaigns, which could be managed at very low costs, or even at zero cost, by what is defined as the guarantee chain (the Bank of Italy, the ABI, the largest banking entities and the trade associations, which also intervened before the amending phase). The benefit would be not only for entrepreneurs, but for the entire credit system. A more aware and informed system of what it is doing is more efficient and safer for everyone. The second issue is information: we call for the creation of a single database to censor public aid to the trusted system. At present, there are several forms of national or local public aid: censing them all in a single database accessible to all actors would have a double advantage: in the preliminary phase, it would avoid the dispersion of resources and slow down public interventions, based on territorial needs and less covered geographical and business areas; at a later stage, it would allow to assess the real impact of measures in support of the system, allowing, where necessary, corrective action. Here again, we are talking about an intervention that would have great added value and that can potentially be achieved at zero cost, since it is very likely that all the necessary data already exists, but in databases that are not linked to each other, so it would be sufficient to ensure their interoperability. Finally, the last point relates to the need to address the issue of the different forms of supervision that exist in the trusted system. I believe it is appropriate to determine whether to converge towards a single supervisory model for all types of confidences. In any case, since there is this differentiation, it must be foreseen that the setting up of the managing body of the list of minor trusts - which, we remember, are those that have had the greatest problems in the sector and the greatest financial difficulties and with danger of default - does not become a mere holder of the list of good and bad, because, in our opinion, instead, it must be an active part of the support in the supervisory processes towards the minor subjects. These are the three issues I address on the agenda, which I hope will be accepted by the Government. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u53	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur. Mr Fornaro, rapporteur. Mr President, I give up my reply. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government. Mr Morando, Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. I also give up my reply, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u54	Mr President, with Amendment No 1,108 we are calling for an amendment to a Bassanini decree. This is because in that provision it is established that the unified conference can decide to exclude some regions from direct access to the Central Guarantee Fund. This means that some entrepreneurs do not have direct access to the Fund and must necessarily turn to the system of trusts which, as has been explained before, is born to help and facilitate businesses. However, we know very well that in recent years the system of trusts or in any case part of it has made a small part of the regional funds, granting the guarantee only and exclusively to entrepreneurs linked to a political part and this leads to a distortion of the market. If the part of the Bassanini decree referred to in the amendment were abolished, competition in confidences would really be brought about, allowing a better use of the Central Guarantee Fund. [[Applause from Senator Paglini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u57	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, also on behalf of the other Members of the Group, I would like to be able to endorse Amendment No 1,108, stressing that what Senator Bottici has said is the truth. That's how it is in my region. Each of us in here knows in his heart which party he refers to the system of confids, but entrepreneurs and small businesses are of all and not of one party. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u60	VACCIANO (Mixed). Mr President, I would also like to ask you to support Senator Bottici's amendment 1.108. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u61	Mr President, before I give my opinion on the amendments, I would just like to make a preliminary remark with regard to the amendments tabled by Mr Caridi, to whom I would ask him to withdraw the amending proposals he has signed, not out of opposition to the questions raised but because, as I said, the question he raised during his work in the Commission, namely that of including in the reform of the system of trusts also the trusts of professionals, has already been included and would therefore be ultronean. I therefore call on Senator Caridi to withdraw Amendments Nos 1,100 and 1,101; otherwise, the opinion will be opposed, while acknowledging, as I said, the goodness of the arguments underlying the amendment. With regard to Amendment 1.4, I propose that the presenter withdraw it and turn it into an agenda in which the government is recommended to speed up the provisions of Article 1, paragraphs 54 and 55, of Law No 147 of 27 December 2013, which - I say this for colleagues - was to make available 225 million for the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises. I would therefore ask for the amendment to be changed to the agenda, and I would like the Government to accept it as a recommendation, for the acceleration of this procedure which has been somewhat bogged down in the confrontation with the European Union on issues relating to possible state aid. On Amendment 1.5 there is the contrary opinion of the Budget Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. On Amendments Nos 1,102 and 1,103 by Senator Caridi, I am calling for withdrawal or I am voting against, for the reasons already expressed. I am against Amendment 1,105. With regard to Amendment No 1.13 by my colleague, Mr Marino, I propose that it be transformed into an agenda where the Government is asked to consider whether it is appropriate to do so. On Amendment 1,107, at the first signature of Senator Angioni, I am in favour, provided that the following rewording is made to the text: In paragraph 1 (e), after the words: "for financial intermediaries," insert the following: "and for confids" On Amendment 1,108 there is the opposite view of the Budget Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution and, therefore, my opinion is against it. However, Mr President, if I may and if it is permitted by the Rules of Procedure, I believe that the problem raised by Mrs Bottici and which she has just explained is real, because there is an objective issue. However, my opinion would have been against it, because we are talking about a delicate relationship of constitutional balance. However, an agenda could be presented with an invitation to the Government to re-address this issue within the unified conference. On Amendments Nos 1,109, 1,110 and 1,111, I make a call for withdrawal or I am against it, for the same reasons as those already expressed with regard to the other amendments tabled by Mr Caridi. On the agenda of Mr G1,100, Mr Vacciano, Mr Molinari and Mr Bottici, I am in favour, provided that, in the last paragraph of the device, the words "alternatively," to intervene are replaced by the following "alternatively," to consider the desirability of intervening. On the agenda G1.101 I give a favourable opinion, provided that in the operative part the words "to provide for the establishment of """ are replaced by the following: Finally, on the agenda, I would like to express my support, provided that at the beginning of the agenda, the words 'to consider whether it is appropriate' are added.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u62	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's view, including the assumption that the amendments will be transformed into agendas. In particular, with regard to amendment 1.4, the Government accepts the call to speed up procedures. On Amendment 1,108 there is the contrary opinion of the Budget Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution and on it the rapporteur has delivered a contrary opinion if it is requested to vote. However, as the rapporteur said, the Government also shares the fact that the problem, as proposed, exists. Therefore, in the context of the implementation of the reform according to the delegation that has been formulated here, and after realizing the hypothesis of reform that Parliament delegates to the Government, we believe that it is possible to return to the unified Conference - one cannot act unilaterally on this issue as a central state - to consider the possibility of removing the problem highlighted by the amendment. In this context, the Government would accept an agenda to implement this procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u63	The rapporteur, Mr Fornaro, with reference to his proposal for the rewording of amendment 1,107, I would remind you that the text of the article would also act by simplifying compliance and reducing costs for financial intermediaries and confidants. I do not know whether, from the point of view of the evaluation of the Budget Commission, the addition of the words:
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u64	I don't think so, but it's not for me to give the opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u65	I do not see President Azzolini here.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u66	Mr Fornaro, rapporteur. Mr President, Article 1 would read 'e': 'encourage better access to credit for SMEs (...) also by simplifying compliance and reducing costs for financial intermediaries and trusts'. It seems to me that the change takes place within a system of cost containment that has no impact on public finance. Therefore, I would tend to exclude that there is an impact under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u67	Senator Sangalli, I ask you to speak for clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u68	Mr President, it seems to me that the interpretation that Senator Fornaro has given is correct. In fact, there is no impact on public finance, but a reduction in the costs of both private structures operating in parallel within a public finance framework dedicated to business support. I think I can say that there is no problem under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u72	Mr Fornaro, rapporteur. Mr President, I am speaking for the sake of clarity. As a result of the reformulation, the text of Article 1 would be amended as follows: It is, in fact, only a specification, because under the term "financial intermediaries" there are also the confids (to abundantiam, in this case). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right. In any case, we've dissolved the doubt with Senator Sangalli.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u75	Barani (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Mr President, I rise to endorse Senator Caridi's amendments and I accept the rapporteur's invitation to withdraw them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marino, do you accept the rapporteur's proposal?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u76	Mr President, I welcome the rapporteur's proposal, taking the opportunity to thank Senator Fornaro and my homonymous President of the Commission for the work that has been produced. I therefore accept the proposal to withdraw and turn amendments to my signature 1.4 and 1.13. Frankly, however, I cannot understand the zeal of the Budget Commission in applying Article 81 of the Constitution to Amendment 1.5. I might as well say no clearly and we would have solved the problem, I would have withdrawn it. Why did Amendment 1.5 receive an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution? This amendment pays particular attention to the capitalization of trusts that have an activity and present conditions such as to be supervised by the Bank of Italy. Subsequently, it is expected that a share of the resources allocated to the trusts will go to the capitalization of medium-term enterprises. That a problem can be detected under Article 81 of the Constitution, i.e. a breakdown of public finances, is all to be said, explained and illustrated. So, either it is explained to me, or I would ask that Amendment 1.5 be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u77	Senator Marino, unfortunately the Presidency is not competent on the opinions of the Budget Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u78	Amendments 1,100 and 1,101 have been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.4 agenda will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to Amendment 1.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u81	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, on Amendment 1.5, which Senator Marino has asked to vote on, I would ask, if possible, for a split vote and, therefore, vote on the first part, until the words 'for supervised persons', and then on the second part.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u82	Senator Bottici, I do not have an opinion of the 5th Commission for separate parties and, therefore, I must put the amendment to the vote on the basis of the requirements of Article 81 of the Constitution and, therefore, in its entirety. Otherwise, I should check whether or not the two parties comply with Article 81. Senator Bottici, the vote is unique and I have to ask for a single support.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u85	MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, will there be a President of the Budget Commission to ask to understand why Article 81 of the Constitution has been applied?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u86	Senator Marino, if on this measure, as on the previous one relating to agriculture, we had to ask for any coverage, we would spend years on every measure. If President Azzollini were present, we could ask him, but he's not there. MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, do not rush because the previous measure has not been asked everywhere. We are only asked here about one amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Bottici's amendment 1,108 was also rejected in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. MARINO Luigi (AP (NCD-UDC)). But you didn't ask for clarification on Article 81 cover. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have the opposite view of the Budget Commission in accordance with Article 81 on Amendment 1.5. You, Senator Marino, are asking us to vote on the amendment, so that I can verify the support and proceed to the vote. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Luigi Marino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,102, 1,103, 1,104, 1,105 and 1,106 have been withdrawn. As the G1.13 agenda has been accepted by the Government, it will not be put to the vote. I ask Senator Angioni if he accepts the rewording of amendment 1.107. ANGIONES (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.107 (text 2). GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot, by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.107 (text 2), tabled by Senator Angioni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Bottici, do you accept the change in the agenda of your amendment 1,108?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u87	I accept the change in the agenda of Amendment No 1,108, which I therefore withdraw, but I also do not understand why there has also been an opposition in this case under Article 81 of the Constitution, because the amendment does not alter the state budget. In any case, I accept and hope that the Government will be able to correct this which I call a twist.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u90	BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, I am speaking in favour of the G1.108 agenda resulting from your amendment, which certainly had a financial profile. It is clear, however, that with an agenda at least it is pointed out and the Government is invited - and I hope it will do so punctually, as Vice Minister Morando said earlier - to reconsider, within the scheme shared at the time with the unified conference, the issue in question. I am referring to the fact that some regions do not allow their businesses, by virtue of a load they carry, to have access to the Guarantee Fund. It is very appropriate that this should be reviewed, re-evaluated and re-evaluated.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u91	Senator Bottici, do you insist on voting on the agenda? BOTTICS (M5S). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.108 will not be put to the vote. Amendments 1,109, 1,110 and 1,111 have been withdrawn. Senator Vacciano, do you accept the rewording of your three agendas?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u92	I welcome the proposal to reformulate the agenda and insist on their vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u95	BELLOT (Misto-FAL). Mr President, on behalf of the Autonomous Federalism and Freedom component of the Mixed Group, I would like to subscribe to agendas G1.100, G1.101 and G1.102.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u98	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to point out that, in the previous vote, Senator Di Biagio voted in place of Senator Questre De Poli who was not in his place at the time, while Senator Marino Luigi, who sits next to him, voted in place of Senator Di Biagio, who was out of place.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u99	The Presidency takes note of its signal. We shall now proceed to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Vacciano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.101 (text 2), tabled by Senator Vacciano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.102 (text 2), tabled by Senator Vacciano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u102	BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Senate's Conservatives and Reformists Group to a text of delegation which, despite the extent to which it is handed over to the Government, points out with great care the necessary changes to the present system that the great world of confids must be able to face, supported - I hope - by positive and positive action by this Government and Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u105	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, the delegation to the Government for the reform of the trust system has objectives in common words. It intends, in fact, to facilitate better and faster access to credit for small and medium-sized enterprises and for the liberal professions, to simplify compliance and to reduce the costs to which they are responsible, which are certainly criteria that we share. The trust system is, of course, strategic for access to credit by small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises, as the rapporteur explained at the beginning of the debate. Guaranteed funding in 2008 amounted to 9 billion and 14 billion in 2010. However, in recent years there has also been a worrying increase in insolvencies, and that is why we welcome the need to review the system, to encourage the creation of more robust and structured intermediaries and to reduce credit risk. We must certainly rethink the system of confidants - we agree - only if this is done by strengthening it and not by questioning it. The patrimonialisation of trusts for multi-annual programming is positive, as is the intention to strengthen public contribution methods to avoid dispersal of resources and improve their effectiveness. Strong and competitive guarantee intermediaries are needed. The aims, however, of the delegation must retain some fundamental points that are the main founding element of the confids that we consider strategic, that is their mutual and associative nature and the bond with the territory, that creates a direct knowledge of the enterprises and the productive system that must be protected and defended and for which the necessary support must be guaranteed. We believe, however, that the government should use the delegation that is guaranteed through the vote in favour of the House well and act quickly and effectively. International and macroeconomic conditions are better than in the past, but the crisis is certainly not over. The government does not waste time in fake reforms, because the country is tired of the promises and words of the Premier: it wants true reforms and above all wants work. You are wasting time on marginal issues and the train of recovery is passing, leaving on foot the country and citizens, increasingly without work, without prospects and without future. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u108	VACCIANO (Mixed). Mr President, the draft law on the reform of the trust system is finally before the House. Finally, I say why, by joking in the Commission with the rapporteur, Senator Fornaro, I sometimes wondered if there was a need for the opposition to make some confusion in order to justify an unnatural delay, which brings this measure to the House almost a year after the usual work of the Finance Committee. I would like to stress this, because the Commission's work has been characterised by an extremely cooperative spirit between the forces of majority and opposition, with the common objective of achieving a final product that better responds to the needs of an extremely varied and complex reality, such as the world of confids. This reality has been outlined very well in the interesting round of hearings that preceded the amending phase and has offered us the framework of a world that is far from homogeneous. The picture was already outlined in a document produced by the Bank of Italy on the occasion of the presentation of the SVIMEZ report in 2013: a Balkanised sector, with deep differences in dimensional terms, geographical distribution and subjection to supervision. Today we are discussing a reform that is based on a previous measure of 2010, which has been fully implemented only in a very recent past. It is thought that one of the key points of this reform, the creation of a managing body on the list of minor trusts, was defined only at the end of last year. It is therefore clear that the new reform must, in order to be effective, harmonise and complete the previous reform, in order to avoid overlaps. This point has been discussed extensively in the Commission's work and I believe that it will also be one of the most complex and unavoidable tasks in the implementation of the delegation. I note that, during the hearings, virtually all the speakers have shown that they welcome the draft law that is currently under consideration. The same, moreover, widely collects the stresses contained in the documents of Assoconfidi and, in particular, those proposed in the conference Confifidi 2.0, of February last year. Therefore, we can reasonably hope that those who represent a large part of a given sector will know about their diseases and be able to offer effective treatment. Without prejudice to the fact that the current credit assessment attributed by the rating agencies to Italy means that exposures to supervised intermediaries should be subject to a weighting factor of 100% today, therefore the benefit associated with the prudential recognition of trust guarantees, on which the Guarantee Fund does not intervene, is virtually zero. And I say this in order to underline the importance of using this Fund at present and that it will have in providing credit and in supporting small and medium-sized enterprises in the coming years as well. I must say, however, that the proposals contained in the law are all acceptable and of common sense. Clearly not all of them are roses and flowers. We also do our opposition work and I have some concerns, which I have also had the opportunity to represent in the Commission. I wonder, in particular, whether a unitary intervention of this type applied to a uneven reality such as that of confids, does not risk, even considering the acceptance of some of the requests received by audits, to achieve much more modest effects than those which could legitimately be expected. I also wonder if it would not be desirable to avoid adding a further layer of programming legislation, instead checking the possibility of spontaneously putting in place, on the part of the so-called guarantee chain, a series of extra-legislative interventions, which would follow the shared content of the draft delegation law. This is in view of the fact that in any case, as well as the hearings have shown, the success of the reform depends on the degree of active involvement and interaction between the various actors involved. In any case, I realize that the only answers to these questions can come from the field test of the decrees that will arise from the delegation, on which we will undoubtedly have the opportunity to express our views. To this measure too much time has already been taken away and, therefore, I conclude my speech with a personal thanks to the rapporteur, Senator Fornaro, who, while respecting the diversity of roles, has always fostered dialogue, showing interest and non-formal openness towards the proposals of oppositions. With this, I am voting in favour of my Group. [[Applause from Senator Bellot.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u111	CHIAVAROLI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly to announce the support of the People's Area Group. We believe that the delegation goes in the right direction to strengthen the activity of the trusts, in the interest of the system of small and medium-sized enterprises of our country. That is why we shall be voting in favour and I would ask that the full text of my speech be delivered. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u112	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u115	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, this measure stems from the recognition of the importance of reorganising the credit sector: an awareness that it has become indispensable because of the financial crisis in recent years and the credit crunch that credit institutions have made towards entrepreneurs and citizens. The banks continue to give money to those who already have it and not to those who need it, not fulfilling, therefore, their task. In this scenario, the intention to reorganise trusts implies the recognition of a central role that these players can play in restoring oxygen to the credit sector and, above all, to small and medium-sized enterprises. The confidences in Italy today are numerous, but most of them have modest volumes of business. The latest official data of 30 June 2014 show that the largest trusts, subject to supervision by the Bank of Italy, are 61, concentrated mainly in the Regions of the Centre-North, and have provided more than 75 percent of the total guarantees. The minor confids, on the other hand, are 495 and are concentrated mainly in the southern regions. The pulverization of the sector and the difficulty of the minor confids to play fully the institutional role of guarantee of the credit are the ulterior motivations that can lead us to carry out a reflection on their capitalization and rationalization of their activity. But they also lead us to make an analysis of what is happening, and we would never want the least sponsorship and protection from Italian politics to hide behind the difficulties of the minor confids. Sometimes it is easy to combine the luck of a certain trust with the luck of a political party or a specific territorial political subject. However, on the whole, both the reasons set out above and the principles and guiding criteria announced in the measure appear to be acceptable, while, if anything, it is to be stigmatized the choice to proceed to the reorganization of this delicate matter with a draft law delegation. We would have preferred a detailed law, while understanding the complexity of the matter: each of us could have made its own contribution, such as - for example - that of our amendment 1,108, which has been transformed into a recommendation. In these months, and in particular in the last period, after the activation of the microcredit, we have received several reports regarding the difficulties of the entrepreneurs of Abruzzo, Marche and Tuscany to access the guarantee fund. As I explained earlier, Tuscany is totally excluded from the possibility of accessing the direct guarantee of the State, while Abruzzo and Marche only up to a certain amount. And this is due to an effect of the so-called Bassanini measure. These regions are obliged to go through the mediation of the trusts. But after contacting the confids, the entrepreneurs encountered further difficulties in the procedure and many of them still wait to know their fate. I would like to remind you that an amendment passed from this House establishing a facilitated procedure for suppliers of the Ilva in Taranto. So, as always, double standards are used. It will be my fault to think in a certain way, but it often turns out that under those amendments there are political territorial agreements. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But let's move on. This is where Parliament should act if it wants to keep the backbone of the Italian economy healthy. I would like to remind everyone in this House that Italian small and medium-sized enterprises are the ones that pay their taxes every day, with their sacrifice, and allow the State to pay our salaries, which are not low. Bringing more respect to Italian small and medium-sized enterprises is the least these classrooms can do, because only in this way can the Italian State continue to live. Instead, during this year and a half, the measures of the Renzi Government have not protected and have not facilitated small entrepreneurs and, therefore, we believe that Renzi himself is not able to make changes to such a complex matter as the trusted system. And since this is a bill of delegation that gives the Government extensive powers to write legislative decrees, the vote of the 5 Star Movement will be abstaining, while sharing the intentions of the delegation for the reform of the trusts. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u118	SCIASCIA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the bill which delegates to the Government the reform of the trust system - a preliminary consideration - was assigned to the 6th Senate Commission on 27 February 2014. Unfortunately, the measure has arrived in this House after more than a year, and certainly not because of the inertia of the Commission's finances. The measure is of particular importance in the context of the reforms concerning the trusts: the first, dating back to 2003, introduced the supervised or major trusts, entered in the special list ex Article 107 of the single bank text; the second of 2010 provided for the migration of the current major trusts into the new register of financial intermediaries authorised and supervised by the Bank of Italy and maintained the so-called minor trusts, which can carry out only collective guarantee activities and are registered on a special list and subject to the supervision of a specific body, in turn supervised by the Bank of Italy. It should be noted that the 6th Commission has recently examined Act No 172, relating to the accounts of credit institutions which, in its first part, has completely rewritten the legislation to which the minor trusts must adhere, with regard to the drawing up of their own financial statements and their accounting records. Unfortunately, to date, the 2010 reform is not yet fully implemented, as some ministerial decrees are needed to make operational both the managing body of the list, and the new register of financial intermediaries, of which the supervised trusts or major trusts are part. This measure - in my opinion particularly important - will allow the Government to issue rules especially aimed at increasing and strengthening the asset activity of the trusts, especially the major entities that - as noted also by the Bank of Italy - play a role of not indifferent aid for the granting of guarantees in favour especially of small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, I would like to express a special thanks to all my colleagues in the 6th Commission and their staff for their work. In conclusion, I am very much in favour of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a delegation of participants in the 2015 cycling marathon for peace, Italian and German cyclists ride together, which will start tomorrow from St Peter's Square at 8.15 am and will arrive on 10 July in Cumiana, passing through Sant'Anna di Stazzema and the National Park of Peace. We wish you a nice ride. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u122	Rossi Gianluca (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking President Marino Mauro, my colleagues from the 6th Commission who wanted to share this bill, the rapporteur and the representative of the Government for their willingness to meet the challenge of this draft delegation law. In October 2012, the European Commission adopted the new industrial policy action lines, in the framework of Europe 2020, with four policy axes: investment in new technologies and innovation; improved market conditions; support for access to finance (so-called the easiest credit) and support for investment in human capital and skills. The choices already made by France, Germany and Great Britain are developing on these guidelines. At a time, therefore, crucial for the future of manufacturing industry - of which I remember the second country in the European Union - we will risk a real industrial desertification without clear and innovative choices. It is in this context that our industrial heritage, small and medium-sized enterprises and their enormous potential must be exploited. The measure we are going to vote on is part of this process: to support the network of small and medium-sized enterprises and to provide them with better access to credit at a time of great difficulty, as the rapporteur said. The confids are historically born with a mutual and associative nature and, to date, their founding values have constituted an important antidote to the economic crisis by means of their particular characteristics. The actual operational structures that cling to the system have guaranteed - to give a given - funding of more than 43 billion euros, releasing more than 20 billion euros of guarantees for one million and 200,000 small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, small and medium-sized enterprises account for the vast majority of enterprises and employ 80% of employees. For this category of subjects, because of their structural peculiarities, the relationship with the banking system has always been characterized by strong elements of rigidity and access to credit has always been one of the major critical factors. In this context, the confidences found themselves, during the crisis, to cross the full implementation of the reorganization generated by the rules on financial intermediaries, as has been last mentioned. In this path, the strengthening of the National Central Guarantee Fund, which in recent years has become the most important public infrastructure of the guarantee, both for its capitalization and for its importance towards companies and the banking system, has not been irrelevant and uncritical. Our objective has therefore been to promote and encourage the ability of the trusts to fully exploit their distinctive elements, linked to the knowledge of the enterprises, the ability to reach them on the territory, the possibility to conceive an integrated dimension of services that would allow to enhance the function of access to the financial instruments in a wider range of the single credit dimension. Moreover, the traditional mutual method allows to determine a substantial multiplying effect, achieved through the greater solidity of the enterprises, also according to their needs of access to the bank credit. In conclusion, the proposed draft law brings benefits for individual beneficiaries of the standard and for the entire financial system, as it favours greater efficiency in the trust sector, thanks to the lack of duplication of certain obligations, a higher rationalisation of functions, through a fairer sharing of burdens between the different actors involved in the financial transaction considered as a whole, and a cost savings, resulting from the easing of the procedural process of the parties to the guarantee, with significant benefits for the final beneficiaries of the guarantee activity, many of which today suffer from the credit crunch in place and remain without adequate and widespread guarantee instruments for access to credit. I therefore declare the Democratic Party Group's vote in favour with personal and political satisfaction, because I am convinced that what this delegation provides, if properly collected by the Government, will strengthen the confidences as an indispensable tool of our country's industrial policies. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u123	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u126	Mr Fornaro, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to express a non-formal thanks to the Offices of the Finance Committee, to Mr Bruschi, to the President and to all my colleagues. However, I would like to take this opportunity to raise a point which Senator Sciascia recalled in his speech. The Presidency and the Leaders in the organisation of work need to pay greater attention to work of parliamentary origin: I am referring to the draft laws and draft laws which delegate parliamentary initiative. From this point of view, the hope is that we can find the right channels to get to this House faster. I somehow entrust the government with a message. This branch of Parliament has adopted this measure by a very large majority, with the only abstention of the 5 Star Movement Group. In the parliamentary process, then in the transition to the House, there might be that acceleration that was not in this branch.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u127	Colleagues, having regard to the fact that the next item on the agenda is the examination of a draft constitutional law, which is assessed at the time and considering that at 3 p.m. Parliament is convened in a joint sitting for the election of judges of the Constitutional Court, I refer the next items of the agenda to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u130	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to point out a very regrettable fact. It circulates, through some messages, one of which I received on my telephone users this morning, a highly disparaging news of our legislative activity, according to which we would approve draft laws in favour of the so-called caste, especially the one coming out. Now, because this message that has arrived at me - and I think it goes online - comes from an identified telephone number, I would ask the Presidency to take all the necessary steps to safeguard the dignity and decency of the Senate, because it is clear that of all the users who should receive this message, only one part can be aware of the fact - as is natural - that we are not 400, but in a smaller number, that there is no senator with the name to which the initiative of the bill is attributed, and even less that we have never approved such a law. I am therefore at the disposal of the Senate headquarters to be able to provide all the information necessary to intercept this continuous denigration that we suffer from our parliamentary and political activity.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u133	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to say to Mr D'Ali that this is a hoax that has been going on for seven, eight years now. I think it is quite well known that this is a hoax, which is why I do not think it is appropriate to go and identify the individual because I think it is really excessive. Rather, greater attention on the part of Parliament in adopting rules for citizens would perhaps prevent these latter citizens from being able to give credit in an easy way to certain hoaxes. The reason for this, in fact, is always the fact that Parliament has often been used for its own use and consumption, with the result that hoaxes of this kind can spread almost as truth so that they may appear to be true to those who read. Perhaps Parliament should examine itself. [[Senator Malan's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u134	Thank you, Senator Crimes, but since this buffalo presidency only appreciates the mozzarella, it gives Senator Malan a mandate to look into the issue raised by Mr D'Alì.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u135	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-02-LEG17-Senato-sed-477.ana.u136	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 7 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.13 a.m.
