ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 26 January.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u9	Colleagues, if you do not lower your tone, we proceed with a suspension: this level of buzz is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u10	You have the right to intervene, Senator De Cristofaro.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u11	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I believe that this Parliament cannot remain indifferent to what happened yesterday in the Sicilian Channel, where 29 migrants died, as you know and as our colleagues obviously know. I think, and I ask on behalf of the Left Ecology and Freedom and the Mixed Group, that it is necessary that in the next few hours, or at least in the next few days, the Senate of the Republic can discuss with Minister Alfano, and therefore I formally ask that the Minister come to report in Parliament, with respect to a tragedy - unfortunately announced - that has happened in our sea. During the last year a very important mission of the Italian Navy was carried out, which we called Mare nostrum, which saved many migrants from the coast of Africa from a possible death in the Mediterranean Sea, as had happened in the previous months. Unfortunately, we had been easy prophets when the government decided, together with the European Union, to suspend operation Mare nostrum, because we said, unfortunately in solitude, that the current mission of the Frontex agency, the so-called Triton mission, could not have the same characteristics as the Mare nostrum mission. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u12	Colleagues, but what is Senator De Cristofaro talking about? De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Indeed this buzz of the Parliament of the Republic today tells you a lot about the level of sensitivity of the Italian Parliament with regard to what happened in our sea.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u13	[[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups.]] We may have saved 100 million euros, but we wouldn't want to spend this money in coffins. The mission that replaced Mare nostrum, as I said, obviously does not have characteristics that can cope with the humanitarian emergency in the Mediterranean, as it happened yesterday. These 29 migrants died when, moreover, they had already been welcomed on our boats, but obviously, unlike the boats provided by Mare nostrum, they do not even have the characteristics to achieve this type of rescue on the high seas and this type of reception. There really would be a lot to discuss. We would also have to discuss all the propaganda, sometimes really ignoble, that we happened to have to listen during these months and during this year and a half, when a lie was told, especially on national televisions (which are used to listen to this easy propaganda). The lie is that Mare nostrum would have increased the number of landings from North Africa. Admiral De Giorgi, Chief of Staff of the Italian Navy, a serious person with a straight back, in the Human Rights Commission has denied this thesis and has instead described the situation exactly as it has been formed over the years. Those landings have increased because there is a country dissolved in North Africa, Libya, and because there is another country, Syria, which is unfortunately torn apart by a dramatic civil war that has caused deaths and refugees and people fleeing the war. These landings were not due to Mare nostrum. Mare nostrum was exactly the opposite, that is the attempt to give an answer, the yes serious and dignified, really of great level, also from our Navy. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and Bell and De Pin Senators]] Also because, unfortunately, over the course of these months, the political vacuum that characterized the intervention of the European Union has once again been an absolute void. I was very disappointed, when Federica Mogherini was appointed High Commissioner, that we could somehow interrupt this inability of the European Union, which obviously remains, to put in hand a serious policy of reception. I would like to say, Mr President, and I will tell Mr Alfano when he comes to this House, that the Italian Government cannot think that this is just a problem for the European Union. It's our problem, too. These are different issues: one thing is Frontex, which is precisely a European agency, another is Italy's commitment to what is happening along our coasts and in our sea. We, as a Parliament, have a duty to imagine an immediate response to what is happening, and we also have a duty to end, once and for all, the season of easy propaganda. This story of the landings in Lampedusa was told as some sort of apocalypse. In 2014, it was 156,000 people compared to a population of 60 million inhabitants. This is the apocalypse that has been told to us. It happened to me a few months ago, as Vice President of the Senate Foreign Commission, to go to Lebanon and see where, with a population of five million inhabitants, they had to welcome one million Syrians, what a real humanitarian pressure is. In Italy, fortunately, we are talking about a lot of other figures, which are certainly important and need work from the European Union, but which have been used over the course of these months by propaganda that has done gigantic damage. The dramatic event that happened yesterday in the Mediterranean I hope will open the eyes of everyone and give this Parliament, and in particular to the Government, the possibility, if we cannot organize a mission like Mare nostrum, to ask our Navy to ensure at least that coverage in international waters that Frontex obviously cannot guarantee. Otherwise, we'll find ourselves crying the dead again. We should display a sign out there, close this Parliament for a few hours and write on the sign closed for mourning, because this happened yesterday off our coasts. We are not indifferent. My Group, and I hope this Parliament as a whole, cannot be indifferent to what is happening in the Mediterranean! [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD, M5S and Movement-X Groups and Senator Maurizio Rossi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u16	Mr Manconi (PD). Mr President, I entirely agree with Senator De Cristofaro's speech and I would just like to add a few brief comments. The first is that I really believe that this is a matter that should concern everyone, beyond the political groups, party memberships and conflicts that have seen us harshly opposed in recent months and years. It is, in fact, a great democratic issue that we are dealing with today and not just a humanitarian problem. Yesterday those 29 migrants died of cold: assiderati, as in a classic tragedy. And it is indisputable that there is a very close relationship between this new massacre - yet another - and the end of the Mare nostrum mission. The decision to conclude that mission was dictated primarily by economic considerations: it was loudly said that the mission cost too much, and indeed its costs were enormous. Well, I think that to reply to this consideration with the essential question "but what is the price of a human life?" is not a rhetorical exercise or a demagogic affirmation. It concerns, rather, the level of legal civilization of our country, and the quality of its democratic system, within which the question of reception, the right of asylum and coexistence represent fundamental values. Another argument against that mission was the fact that it could be a factor of attraction for an increasing number of migrants. Already Senator De Cristofaro, citing the arguments of the highest authority in this field, Admiral De Giorgi, Chief of Staff of the Navy, explained how the peaks of the turnout of asylum seekers precede the beginning of the Mare nostrum mission, in October 2013. But there is a further, unequivocal fact: the end of the mission did not lead to the reduction of the number of asylum seekers arriving on our coasts, if it is true that, in January 2014, when the Mare nostrum mission operated at full rate, the disembarked were over 3,300, while, in January 2015, the mission ended months ago the number grew to over 3,700. This fact denounces - I believe - the misery of that regressive utopia torva that claims to stop the movements of millions of human beings - determined by ethnic conflicts, civil wars, persecutions of a tribal, religious, sexual nature, famine hunger and ecological disasters - with the patrol boats, barbed wires and new and old walls. It's not like that. We are talking, in fact, about a phenomenon that has an international dimension and a long history. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Uras]] Having said that, I understand that, in view of the current situation, the hypothesis of having that sacrosanct and providential initiative, which was Mare nostrum, is virtually impossible. Sorry because that mission represented one of the rare moments in which a healthy and renewed form of supranational, Europeanist, cosmopolitan patriotism has manifested itself in our country, a demonstration of awareness, but also of national pride, aroused by the precious task of saving human lives. If this mission cannot be resumed - I conclude - it restores at least that garrison constituted by the ships and the motorcades of our Navy that, if it had been active yesterday, would have prevented those 29 dead assiderati and who knows how many others of which we have no news neither a name, a nationality, a biography. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-SEL groups and from Senator Palermo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u19	SIMONI (Mist). Mr President, 29 deaths yesterday... 300 a few years ago: repeatedly a war bulletin announces the dead in the sea. I am once again speaking on this controversial issue. The fact is that there is a humanitarian emergency of proportions that cannot be tolerated by the Italian State and the truth is that this does not want to be accepted either by our Government or by the European Union. In fact, in recent years the initiatives taken to stem and resolve the crisis of wild immigration from North Africa have been made fun of. Everyone knows that the Mare nostrum operation was only a palliative, a cure that only mitigates the symptoms of the disease but does not remove the cause. An apparent and temporary solution that someone hypocritically called a great success. But how can we call success an operation that is already known to end in a few months? How can we set up an operation that costs EUR 9 million a month without even having any idea how to stop human trafficking and what the next steps will be to block illegal migration flows? To say that our policies have been shortsighted is an understatement. Here we are talking about improvised solutions without criteria and dictated by the need to throw smoke in the eyes of the public. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are crying for yet another tragedy, but I want to tell you something that I firmly believe: goodness and commemoration do not solve problems. It is useless to tear your hair for the poor refugees when nothing is done to stop Libyan traffickers and desperate departures, to destroy all the criminal apparatus that thrives on these misfortunes. The name of the operation has changed, which today is called Triton, but the music is always the same, even worse. The number of landings is equal to that of last year and the number of deaths is the same, only now that instead of dying due to shipwrecks, they die because of the cold, due to insufficient means. Not to mention the poor controls that should protect us from the risk of terrorist infiltration. It seems that nobody really cares about solving the problem: neither who governs us, nor Europe. In fact, we have discovered that in our country there are even those who speculate on this phenomenon through the business of reception camps. The only thought that there can be Italians speculating on something like this disgusts me and makes me think that this country has reached the point of no return. Many times, before I became a Member of Parliament, I thought that the only solution was to leave the country to its fate, but now and as long as I stay in this Chamber I want to continue fighting to try to change things. I have said this many times and I repeat it again: the only solution for this disaster is a joint humanitarian mission of the civilized countries to block traffickers directly on the African coasts, with the establishment of reception centres or temporary embassies that are said to be on the African coasts or elsewhere, where there are quiet countries. All our efforts should focus on this, in every international institutional forum, seeking the support of the countries concerned. All the rest are words to the wind, which only serve to silence our conscience and deceive the Italians that we are doing something to solve the problem. But I'm not sticking to the situation, and I'm always going to report hypocrisy, hoping there's others who think like me.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u20	Colleagues, we greet students and teachers of the Higher Secondary Institute (Stenio) of Termini Imerese (Palermo), who are following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u23	Mr Quegliariello (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, we are thinking first of all of the 29 victims of this disaster. Today's debate in this House and the previous requests confirm, if necessary, that we are faced with an epochal tragedy, a problem typical of this millennium, which has the scope of the wars and the great tragedies we have experienced in the previous century. Mr President, when we are faced with a problem of this size, it is right that Parliaments should do all the necessary in-depth work, but it is equally right and, indeed, I would say necessary, that we should abandon any kind of simplistic and even instrumentalisation. To say that landings have increased for the actions of our Government is to say, roughly, that the mortality rate between 1915 and 1918 of the last century in Italy grew; the affirmation has the same statistical dimension, neither more nor less. It is clear that the scope of the problem is such that any intervention we had proposed would have been faced with a situation in which landings would have increased. To say, moreover, at the first opportunity that there is a situation that has changed because we have moved from one type of intervention to another, Mr President, it seems to me equally simplistic and also dangerous. My colleagues know that with Mare nostrum, which has been an operation in many ways sacrosanct, first of all because of its humanitarian profiles, unfortunately, we could not prevent the tragedies from continuing. It is good to say that during the period of Mare nostrum we had 500 dead and 1,400 missing: these are the numbers. We obviously think about the number of lives that our country has saved with that operation; but that operation has also highlighted an aspect that I have found in the interventions of colleagues who have preceded me, but that perhaps has not been particularly stressed, namely that the dimensions of the phenomenon are such that no intervention produced by a single country can be able to face, defeat or even limit the phenomenon itself. It is for this reason and in this dimension that we have thought of the involvement of other European countries. A certainly reluctant involvement, because the phenomenon is such that those who have landed in our country - we all know - very often have not remained there. Therefore, the other countries think of making their contribution to the fight against immigration through the hospitality that is given to those who arrive in Italy and go elsewhere. Obviously this is a clearly insufficient approach: something more is needed. We need European cooperation, and the overcoming of Mare nostrum towards Triton has been thought of by our entire Government in this dimension. So let us have a debate; let us also call on the Government to report, but let us get out of the opposite instrumentalities, because it is not necessary to wait necessarily to move away from this century in order to understand the size of the phenomenon, the dimension of the tragedy and how this seems even greater than the small exploitations that are carried out on it. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u26	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, no one can remain indifferent to tragedies such as the one we witnessed yesterday, and not only in the Mediterranean. We are faced with an exodus of men, women and children: refugees fleeing from war, hunger, the lack of freedom and democracy. Mare nostrum was a great humanitarian operation, which Italy has generously put on the field in the deafening silence of the rest of Europe. The position of Forza Italia, net of propaganda that has been spread with full hands in these months by other political forces, is clear: Mare nostrum was not the solution to the problem, but, at the same time, the reason tells me that it was not even the magnet that exponentially increased the number of refugees. It was a buffer operation that, as we have seen, did not solve an epochal problem. Similarly, it is not a solution to Operation Triton, which is entrusted with border control, an operation nominally under the aegis of the European Union, but which, in fact, brings back the responsibility and the burden of receiving it entirely on Italy. Firstly, there is a lack of a common policy for the Mediterranean countries. Spain, for example, has a whole other approach to immigration, since it even gets to shoot at immigrants; Malta has a rigid position, as well as Greece. Italy cannot take on itself a biblical exodus. The solution must therefore be European, starting with the revision of the Dublin III Regulation, the caperstro regulation which provides that the first port country is the only one responsible for the reception of asylum seekers. In this respect, I would like to say that the Italian Government has missed the opportunity of the Presidency of the European Council in order to arrive at a redefinition of the Dublin III Regulation. It is not possible that it is only the countries of the first port that have the full burden of receiving hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers from the countries of the so-called Arab Spring, on which the West has taken a huge dazzle, because it has given its support, believing that it was a yearning for democracy, while it has turned out to be the awakening of the worst Islamic fundamentalism. The solutions we have to adopt are essentially two: on the one hand, greater involvement of the European Union in governing this biblical exodus and, on the other hand, possibly with the involvement of the United Nations, making partnership agreements with border countries. We know that the black hole in immigration right now is Libya, a country without government, a country where the grandeur of then President Sarkozy wanted to bring the strength of Europe and the West. Libya was certainly a country that needed democracy, but the path would not have been found with the overthrow of the Gaddafi regime tout court and we saw how it ended. I therefore believe that, just as it probably represents an excess criminalizing Mare nostrum, in the same way is an excess of the good approach to a phenomenon that must be governed at European level and that Italy cannot continue to take full responsibility for itself. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u29	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I shall be brief because I am ashamed to hear the words I have just heard. We are witnessing tragedies at sea, in front of which we continue to propose and discuss solutions at sea, asking us if it is better Triton or Mare nostrum, forgetting one thing, that people die at sea because there are no right policies on the ground in their countries of origin, those from which boats depart. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] That's where we need to intervene. We have put forward our proposals, with a system involving embassies, where there is the possibility of filtering asylum seekers who are entitled to it from others. The Praesidium project has not been funded either. Today the news is not that of the death of 29 people; the news is that today we are talking about merit, rather than being silent for a minute. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] We should do this and be ashamed, because we're talking about things that happen because we didn't want to do what we needed to do. To hear that on Triton 20 percent of what Mare nostrum cost or that there are two boats and two helicopters is not enough for me. Today we must realize that it is not a matter of money. We cannot complain that it is a matter of money, otherwise the interventions I have mentioned would have already been put in place because they are cheaper. Someone, on the other hand, has an interest in this state of affairs continuing and this person must be identified, and Mr Quagliariello cannot tell me that they are exploitations. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u32	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, yesterday the captain of vessel Filippo Marini of the Coast Guard said that, in these days, rescue operations in the Sicily Canal were practically impossible (sea force 9, waves, an impossible sea). However, what struck us most was the question raised by this spokesperson for the Coast Guard about what I have heard in this House over the last few minutes. Someone says - in our opinion inappropriately - that from Triton we must return to Mare nostrum and precisely those who work, those who know and touch this problem - and I can assure you that no more than ten days ago I met them personally - ask themselves in this official agency whether Mare nostrum could have done better. Their answer is that he probably couldn't. Without going into the matter, because someone could use our words - as unfortunately happens too often - I believe that a political reflection should be done very seriously. We have always supported and urged the Government to go to Europe - the Europe to which we have also had the superficiality of even giving the Nobel Peace Prize - to realize what is happening. During the European Semester we lost the opportunity to bring this huge problem to the attention of the whole of Europe, which niches and turns its head on the other side. We have put our visions, our solutions on the plate. There is a clear fact: still dead are added to the more than 3,000 that have been there. This is a carnage. The Mediterranean, the Gulf of Sicily, is getting redder and someone has to take a conscience test, because someone really has blood on his hands and it is definitely not us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u33	The Presidency will take action to alert the government to the problem but, regardless of any kind of solution, it will be sought, proposed and devised, I believe that 29 lives that have failed in the cold deserve a minute's silence from this House. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u34	The next item is the debate on draft law No 54. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether she intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u35	Mr President, we come back to the House 14 months after the draft law was incardinated, after a very long work in the Commission. I would like, therefore, to briefly remind you of what has happened. Initially we examined and proposed a text that fully replaced the original unique article of the bill, intervening on the incitement to criminals. It was an extremely slippery solution, which involved too many risks in its formulation and especially in the definition of the crime itself, because it was too indeterminate the use of adjectives or adverbs that recognized its typicality and specialty. There was, therefore, the possibility that, unintentionally, he would slip into censorship and not a crime of opinion. We also understood, in the report in this House, that the possibility of a revision was still possible, because - as you will recall - we had approved the text at a night-time meeting, in order to try to comply with requests from several quarters, but without there being a very detailed examination in the Commission. The text is, therefore, back to the Commission's examination and we have drawn up a new one, trying to make it consistent with international sources of pacts on protection against negationism, but also to safeguard the needs posed by the freedom of expression and study of historians. The text proposed to the House today is therefore intended to respond to the concerns and concerns that emerged in the debate and confirmed during the hearings held for the legislative investigation, about the risk of introducing a mere crime of opinion: we did not want this to happen and that it was possible in our system. As I said earlier, the original choice had led us to a rewriting of Article 414 of the Criminal Code, on the crime of incitement to criminals. On the other hand, the Commission has decided to approve an amendment entirely replacing the only article in the draft law, which was intended - on the one hand - to define more precisely the conduct subject to indictment, pursuant to Law No 654, 13 October 1975 (the so-called Royal Law, later amended by the Law of Mancino) and - on the other hand - to make uniform the sanctioning response provided for there with the penalties attributable to the crime of incitement to simple delinquere, referred to in Article 414 of the Criminal Code. In fact, we would have faced a contrast or punishment substantially equal for the aggravated hypothesis provided by the bill in the matter of negationism and simple incitement, with an equiparation of penalties that would not have been tolerable in our system. More in detail, therefore, the new text dismissed by the Commission amends Article 3 of the Royal Law, limiting the criminal relevance only to conduct instigators committed publicly and introducing - through the insertion of the further paragraph 3-a - a worsening of penalty in cases where propaganda, public incitement and public incitement merge in whole or in part on the denial of the Shoah or crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, as defined by the Statute of the International Criminal Court. In order to ensure, therefore, systematic consistency in the sanctioning plan, we have reduced the maximum penalty limit in the bill from five to three years, pursuant to Article 414 for anyone who is publicly inciting to commit crimes. This is integration with respect to the text: we have tried, therefore, to meet all the needs that emerged in the various hearings and from the confrontation with all the parliamentarians, bearers of different sensibilities and interests, taking into account the fact that our heritage consists not only of freedom of opinion, but also of the firm condemnation of all genocides, remembering still today that this is unfortunately a very topical issue, which we have the moral duty to remembrance in this House too. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u36	I greet President Gattegna and a representative of the Roman Jewish community who are witnessing our work [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u37	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Amati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u38	Mr President, every year Memory Day requires us to fully re-evaluate our ability to think, speak, but also act accordingly. It is a fact that Jewish communities continue to be a target in Europe and the world. Think of the recent attack and deaths of the kosher supermarket in Paris, the deaths of last May at the entrance of the Jewish museum in Brussels, the children of the Jewish school in Toulouse, killed in 2012. Unfortunately, the germs of anti-Semitism and racism are still here, potentially fertile, and shake the political and legal foundations of the pact that arose after the Second World War: the unconditional rejection of Nazi horrors. When the supreme commander of the Allied forces Eisenhower met the victims of the concentration camps, he ordered photos to be taken, that the inhabitants of the towns near the camps be accompanied and that the dead be buried. He wanted them to remain documents, to record the testimonies because one day someone could argue that those horrors never happened. Italy, in 2000, established the Day of Memory on the date of the liberation of Auschwitz: "in order to remember the Shoah, the racial laws, the Italian persecution of Jewish citizens, the Italians who have suffered deportation, imprisonment and death, as well as those who, even in different camps and camps, have opposed the plan of extermination, and at the risk of their lives have saved other lives and protected the persecuted (...) so that such events can never happen again." Although it seems inconceivable, negationism continues to be a widespread phenomenon, so much so as to lead the European Court of Human Rights to clarify, in a 2003 judgment, that the goal of the negationists is a blatant racist, xenophobic and anti-Semitic objective, namely to rehabilitate the national socialist regime and, consequently, to accuse the same victims of falsifying history. The contestation of this crime against humanity is one of the most subtle forms of racial and xenophobic defamation and incitement to hatred. For the Court, negationism is an abuse of law and cannot be protected from the right to freedom of expression or research. I remember that the dignity of the person is not only a fundamental right, but is the very basis of every fundamental right. No fundamental right can be invoked for purposes contrary to the letter and spirit of the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights, since these aims would contribute to the destruction of rights and guaranteed freedoms. In 2005, the United Nations established the International Memory Day. Two years later, with the resolution on the denial of the Holocaust, the UN condemned negationism without reservation, urging all Member States to reject any partial or total denial of the Shoah as a historical fact and any activity for this purpose. The European Union then intervened in 2008 with the Framework Decision on combating certain forms and expressions of racism and xenophobia, through the use of criminal law instruments. This is a binding act, under which Member States are obliged to punish the apology, denial or gross minimization of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, as defined in Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court, as well as the crimes defined in Article 6 of the Statute of the Nuremberg Court. This obligation has been implemented precisely in these terms by the draft law we are debating. Countries such as France, Germany, Poland, Austria, Switzerland, Belgium and the Netherlands already have rules that identify negationism as a crime and we cannot say that these are countries where freedom of opinion does not exist. Meanwhile, worrying neo-Nazi organizations, such as Golden Dawn in Greece, and new forms of extremism in Hungary, are growing. They prolify unacceptable anti-Semitic and xenophobic sites on the Internet, where they even toasted to the death of Shlomo Venezia, a direct witness of the extermination at Auschwitz. In his book "Sonderkommando Auschwitz" Shlomo says: "Everything takes me back to the camp. Whatever I do, whatever I see, my spirit always returns to the same place (...). You never really get out of the crematorium. The Sonderkommando was a special team, selected from among the deportees, in charge of running the ruthless and methodical Nazi extermination machine. Shlomo's wife told me that her husband had also kept with her the reserve on the horror immediately, until the re-emergence of those symbols, of those watchwords and of those ideas that had generated the monster of Nazi extermination caused him, in 1992, to decide, with other survivors, that his testimony could be a strong antidote to any negational madness. I would also like to make a contribution to this debate by reading a passage from your book, but I shall briefly leave this testimony to the record. Of course, we cannot allow anyone to deny or trivialize testimonies such as Shlomo's. As the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella also said, in his speech of settlement, "Our country has paid, several times, in a past not too far away, the price of hatred and intolerance." Finally, I would like to mention two speeches by the President of UCEI, Professor Renzo Gattegna. The first dates back to 16 October 2013, on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the raking of the ghetto in Rome, when he said: "Despite everything, new Nazis and new fascisms still exist in Europe and the world, proudly claiming the moral heritage of those crimes. The Nazis were murderers of human beings, their followers of today are murderers of memory. In his second speech, which took place a few days ago, during the commemoration to the House of the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz, Professor Gattegna expressly stated that he shared the text now under discussion in this House. I hope, therefore, that today, at last, we will be able to adopt this rule: an act of reparation of the Italian Parliament which, in 1938, voted on racial laws; an act of concrete contrast to the phenomena of racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism that try to reappear in Italy and Europe; an adaptation, even if with more than four years delay, to the framework decision of the European Union, so that such events can never happen again. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Simeoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u39	The Presidency authorizes you to leave the part of your speech which you have not read to the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scilipoti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u41	Mr. President, Scilipoti Isgrò. I beg your pardon, but I would like to remind you of this because it is important.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u42	She's good.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u43	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Maybe I don't feel it as much as you do; I feel it so much. My full name is Scilipoti Isgrò. Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before we even discuss sensitive issues such as revisionism and negationism, it is appropriate to go back to the main issue by trying to understand in depth the essence of the subject and the inevitable consequences, the social and political reflections and the effects it can bring, trying to address the issue as it deserves, in the right and far from any ideological and biased influence. As is well known, in Italy the first historian to be accused of revisionism was the one who is, in my opinion, well-deservedly considered the greatest historian of matter and, that is, Renzo De Felice, with his monumental work concerning the so-called Twenty-Years. De Felice, free from any ideological influence, authentically democratic historical, approached the object of his study without being inspired by a thesis to be demonstrated or denied, without preconceptions, founding his research on documents, engaging hours and hours consulting archives and measuring endless conversations with other historians. The refusal of any dogmatism, an exceptional work of documentary excavation, the ability to intertwine in an enchanting way a spectrum of different sources very wide, its peculiar ability to reconstruct the picture of a complex society make De Felice a historian whose capacity is almost unanimously recognized in the academic field. We ask ourselves: if its reconstructions of the revolutionary crisis of the eighteenth century are credible, how can the studies on mass politics of the twentieth century not be credible? After all, a prestigious colleague of ours, Senator Sergio Zavoli, one of the greatest Italian journalists [[Applause from Senator Bonfrisco]] , he made use of De Felice's advice when he made the television show "The birth of a dictatorship" in 1972; this is indicative of an authoritativeness of the historian from many parts recognized. And, if there is authority, it cannot be intermittent. His voluminous historical production at the end earned him the accusation of having fallen in love with the object of his own historiographical research, that is - I correct - the subject of his research: Benito Mussolini. A good part of the official historiography, obviously left, has never resigned to the fundamental thesis of his monumental work: the distinction that De Felice correctly understood between fascism as a movement, with interventionist, radical and republican traits, even revolutionary, and fascism as a regime, with obvious antidemocratic traits, conservative, authoritarian and racist. Another historian, like De Felice, was accused of revisionism: Ernst Nolte. The German historian, on research and revisionism, expressed perhaps the clearest and most definitive words: The revision is the daily bread of historians. The historical must be given the availability to the permanent revision of facts and interpretations, which is not compatible with the desire to maintain an image of dogmatic and immutable history. Scholar Nolte has never denied or numerically reduced the extermination of the Jews. He dealt with the work of some deniers at the most, critically analyzing their thesis, without ever making them their own. Nolte was considered one of the greatest German historians, proposing a causal link between the two great totalitarian ideologies of the twentieth century: Stalinism and National Socialism. Fascism succeeds in asserting itself precisely because it opposes, as a militant counter-revolution, the Bolshevik revolution that threatens to expand everywhere from the former Russian empire. I believe that we can start from here, from these two examples that I have mentioned, to understand the reasons why I cannot agree with the intentions of this bill. Noble intentions, be it clear, that want to strike those who publicly incite to commit acts of discrimination on racial, ethnic, national or religious grounds. But there is another, more delicate point, when paragraph 3- bis speaks of propaganda and denial of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. Well, this part doesn't feel like I can share it, for at least three fundamental reasons. The first is that, in my opinion, on the topics covered by the draft law, the interventions of a preventive-repressive nature risk having the effect contrary to the desired one. The more you forbid the possibility of exposing your ideas, no matter how crazy they are, the more you feed the suspicion of the plot and the more you give the halo of the martyrs to those responsible. To prevent the exercise of freedom of speech and idea and, even more so, of historical research, as a result of freedom, immediately refers to totalitarian systems and screams with democratic principles, risking to produce an amplified return effect and not expressing any neutralising effect. In short, preemptive punishment for dissenters could lead to more serious behaviors of emulation than those registered in the state. After all, it was Fiamma Nirenstein, a passionate defender of the memory of the Shoah and the duty not to forget, who wrote: Denialism cannot be fought in court: it is with ideas that ideas are fought, even the worst ones. And he wrote it on his blog precisely to express his opposition to every law establishing the crime of negationism. The subject we are dealing with cannot be compared, just to give an example, to the phenomenon of terrorism or to the feminicide, crimes of great diffusion and great social alarm and that are recorded everywhere; here we are faced with very limited and circumscribed episodes, that we must strive to maintain such with culture and education and not with the repression of ideas. Allow me to make a small note of controversy: I find it strange that to support repressive positions on freedom of expression and research, they are the same ones who, on the contrary, support the widest and most complete freedom in cases of different ideological signs. Perhaps they only have the opportunity to express their ideas in some cases. The second reason is that I find it very suitable for what we are discussing, precisely, Nolte's words, about the fact that historical research must never be dogmatic and immutable. On the contrary, it must feel free to examine (and review) the facts and context also from other points of view, even if "heretics," even if "wrong." History is written by the winners, it is true, but there must always be freedom, I would say the duty, to be able to interpret it also on the side of the losers. This is all the more true for the events of the recent past, on which the judgment is still inevitably different depending on the point of view, as, and I take only one example, happened for the civil war in the former Yugoslavia. The third reason is that a strong and self-confident democracy does not prohibit, does not prevent the expression of judgements and ideas, whatever they may be, but educates objectivity. Democracy, in fact, is not and cannot be partisan and in this lies its true strength. I ask myself and ask you: if this bill had already been approved, would Giampaolo Pansa have been able to write in absolute freedom the books on the crimes that have occurred after the end of the civil war in Italy? Would your view, on the side of the losers, have been "illegal"? Are those books a vulnus for democracy or, for the very fact that they have been written and published, exalt the best part? Finally, on this subject I would like to mention one of the greatest existing lawyers, Stefano Rodotà, on whose independence of thought I think no one can doubt: The right to the manifestation of thought must always be guaranteed and towards all, cannot be applied intermittently, with different weights and measures. I disagree with the creation of the crime of negationism for these reasons and for the same reasons I close my speech by shouting: live the freedom of criticism, live a free historical search, live a democracy sure of itself. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVIIe Group of Senators Albertini and Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u44	She is registered to speak Senator Valentini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, on 27 January, we celebrated Memory Day, remembering the 70th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz. It is a non-trivial occasion, which questions the individual consciences of all of us and the collective awareness of our country: a country - let us never forget - that, in the dark years of the fascist dictatorship, became an accomplice of the exterminations, first with the racial laws of 1938 and then, in the areas of the Italian Social Republic, actively participating in the Nazi deportations. It is not a trivial occasion, because it requires our society and our culture of Italians and Europeans of the third millennium to reflect not only on what it has been, but above all on how and what we want to be in the future. It does not escape any of us, in fact, as for several reasons more and more are taking place, in Italy and in Europe, those nationalist and racist drives that feed that culture of hatred and violence that, in recent decades, had been contained in certainly more marginal forms: ideologies that risk to make hold especially on young people, who have not yet had the chance to study and know the historical significance and the reality of the Nazi extermination camps; ideologies that undermine the principles of freedom, equality and solidarity on which our Constitution and the European constituent process itself are based. I'd like to clear the field of possible misunderstandings right away. Historians were right when, in these days, they recalled that Parliament cannot assume the task of saying what is historically felt. I agree, and I do so also when they say that the best response to negationism is the spread of a culture of responsibility and knowledge. There is no better answer to those who deny the reality of crimes against humanity and the Shoah of a good book and a good lesson in history able to disassemble, especially to young people, that castle of lies. This Parliament and this Government - I believe - will have to commit a little more, much more, more and more, to supporting the research and transmission of historical knowledge. At the same time, however, I am convinced that there is no contradiction between these proposals and the law we are debating today. As the most important scholars of the topic teach us, it is necessary to distinguish between historical revisionism, understood in its most positive sense of reconsideration of the past starting from new sources and interpretative models, and historical negationism, understood as minimization, even negation, of the Shoah and as a form of ideological propaganda. The same recent events in Paris and the alarm they have raised all over Europe must prompt us to ask ourselves not only how we can defend ourselves against terrorism, with the inseparable contribution of the Services and the security equipment, but also how we drain the foundations of the consensus among those young people born and raised in Europe, who are attracted to it or even adhere to terrorist organisations. I certainly do not intend here to confuse or superimpose the themes of negationism and terrorism. However, I believe that, among the reasons why the propaganda of terrorists manages to intercept many boys and girls in the world and in Europe, there are, besides obvious reasons related to international motives or religious fundamentalism, also prejudice and hatred towards Judaism. [[Applause from Senator Bonfrisco]] ; a hatred only apparently based on criticism of some choices implemented by the State of Israel but, in reality, constituted on a deeper prejudice, on the ignorance of history and, in many cases, on the use of negationism as further justification for attacking Israel or citizens of the Jewish religion in Europe. How else can we explain the choice of hitting a grocery store in Paris just because it is run by Jewish citizens? Or the assassination, already mentioned by President Mattarella, of a child of only two years, Stefano Tache, in the attack on the synagogue of Rome in October 1982? In this context, the denial of the Shoah is not a form of historical revisionism but, on the contrary, a rather subtle form of ideological propaganda based on hatred and, as such, must be considered and treated by this Parliament. [[Applause from Senator Bonfrisco.]] In a country whose constitution is based on the principles and values of anti-fascism and resistance, our Parliament has the duty, especially at this stage of the emergence of discrimination, to affirm what it is not possible to accept in a community of free people, based on mutual respect. We owe it to the victims, we owe it to ourselves and we have to do it for the future of our children. I am the daughter of a woman who in Rome, along with many other Roman, Catholic and non-Catholic citizens, has helped, as far as she could, her friends of the Jewish religion to hide from the Nazi-fascist raid. I want my grandchildren to grow up in a country in which the distinction between what is a historical debate and what is instead the reproduction, under disguised lies, of a totalitarian ideology that has produced millions of deaths [[Applause from the PD Group]] : an ideology that manages to insinuate itself through only apparently critical instruments or historical analysis, as evidenced by the recent polemics erupted on the publication of the new "Quaderni" - Saturday we saw an extensive article on the "Corriere della Sera" - in which, even after the end of the war, the philosopher Heidegger demonstrated, and in some way came back to claim, his visceral anti-Semitism. There is no contrast between what has been and what has not been. There is the historical confrontation, of course, that must be free and sovereign, but this is another thing from denying or rejecting what has actually happened. As one of the most important historians of the twentieth century wrote, the Frenchman Pierre Vidal-Naquet, who created a beautiful book on the murderers of memory: "Who would say that there is a school that claims that the Bastille was taken on July 14, 1789 and another that supports July 15? Here we are on the ground of positive things, of how the facts really happened. There are certainly some historical schools that are called revisionists. But none of this has anything to do with the revisionists of the Hitlerian genocide, for which it is simply a matter of replacing the unbearable truth with a lie. I have always thought - I am ending, Mr President - that it must be terrible, for those who have suffered such ferocious crimes, to hear constantly that what they have experienced has never happened. And I deeply understand the fear of the survivors of extermination that, after them, everything returns to oblivion. Finally, I believe that this law is also important for the respect and gratitude that we owe to the victims and witnesses of the Holocaust: to the victims, because the Italian State in this way recognizes their sacrifice; to the survivors, for the gratitude that we owe them today. I am well aware, in fact, how they are concerned by the thought that, when tomorrow will no longer be able to witness to young people the memory of what has been, revisionist or negationist theses can spread even more vehemently. We owe this law to them too, to remember the sacrifice they have made in the years of deportations and to thank them for their commitment, the courage and effort, often superhuman, with which after Auschwitz they chose to testify, so that what has been denied and in this way can never happen again. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bonfrisco. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law shows that Parliament's work, with proper consideration in the Commission and in the House, can bear fruit. In fact, we value positively the formula we found to transform what could be described as the establishment of a new crime, the crime of negationism, into an extension of Law No. 654 of 1975, so-called Royal Law, directing the punishment towards the incitement to discrimination and violence, in the specific case through the denial of the Shoah and other crimes against humanity as listed by the International Criminal Court. This formula allowed us to welcome the protests (which I personally believe to be right) of history scholars and historians, who feared to give the negationists an extra weapon, namely that, constituting a state truth, a negator could say that a state truth had been created because there was no historical evidence, inflicting this further terrible pain, as has been recalled, to those who have experienced personally or indirectly the atrocities committed, not only during the Shoah but also on the occasion of other crimes against humanity. However, there is an obligation of criticism: we are going to carry out a bill that, although improved and shared, I imagine, by almost all colleagues in Parliament, does not put the dots on the "i" and cannot stop the drift, to really change the cultural degradation of this country, which generates these problems. Well, today I will present an agenda that I have presented, the G100, with which we are simply asking to bring the study of history to schools, because we can stop this drift exclusively by growing an informed people, who have knowledge and memory and therefore, since memory constitutes the bricks of our identity, a formed identity, to ensure that certain episodes do not happen again. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But there is a problem when it comes to school. Today I assume you will vote in favour of the G100 agenda which requires the Government to engage in teaching in every school of order and degree of contemporary history, ensuring that we arrive at least until the Second World War. This is a conflict that dates back to 75 years ago, almost three generations old and it is important that we know this story and, I will tell you, the next one. In fact, it would be very important for our students, especially in high schools, to have a complete vision of the twentieth century. But it is a little with sadness in the heart that I ask you to vote in favour of the agenda G100, because I already know that we will ask a school tried and destroyed - destroyed also in a literal sense, since I come from a region where a school collapsed and killed a boy - who will not have the tools and resources, to the face of the "good school", to carry forward this teaching, so important for our culture, for our nation and for its future. I hope that this will really be a serious time for reflection, given the seriousness and importance of the issues we are going to address, in order to really relaunch the school institution. I don't know how many institutions come to talk about World War II and I ask you that. I think very few, both from lower secondary school and above all - and it is even more serious - from upper secondary school. Personally, I did not build an awareness and a conscience because there was the Royal-Left Law; a law of which - I repeat - this society clearly needs, because there are so many discriminations, not only in this area. We will also deal with other extensions of Law No. 654 of 1975, such as the contrast to homophobia, which is more or less structured in the same way, and even in this case there will be no need for a law to change the state of things. They look like sandbags that we put on the banks of the river in the midst of the ignorance that is about to upset us: it will save us for a short time, but maybe it won't save us. We really need to relaunch culture in this country, and I'm sorry that this doesn't happen, or at least in these two years I haven't seen anything in this direction. I have not seen it, and I repeat to you that our conscience, our awareness has been built, as I said, not on the presence or not of a law, but on the studies we did at school, on the books we have read. We read "The Diary of Anna Frank", "The Found Friend", "If this is a man", "If this is a man." We've seen movies, documentaries. For those of a certain age, we have also spoken to the direct witnesses. But today young people no longer have this perception and if we do not go to tell them, to reconstruct these events at the most important moment of their formation, their memory will bring no trace of them. Not to mention the social and economic drift in which these "ideologies" grow, as they call them. The temptation of negationism is growing, but also those of other forms of discrimination and violence, which we see every day: they are to the honours of the news every day. I was a documentary writer, an operator, before (as you know) and I made a documentary: it was called "Romans rat" - The night of the Roma, because in the Shoah, as in other crimes, exterminations and genocides against humanity, not only the Jewish people suffered losses so immense, imman, inconceivable. Specifically, the documentary told of 6,000 Roma killed in one night; the night before they colored those gray little houses in Auschwitz and the next morning they were gone, there was no one left and no one remembers: one tends to lose, especially since the Roma people do not even have a written memory, but only oral. This applies to homosexuals, dissidents, those who were judged by fascism, Nazism, totalitarianism, as belonging to an inferior race or not worthy of living a life. I trained myself and from the human point of view it was a terrifying journey, because the contact with that experience, visiting those places, upsets a person. But that's what our young people should do, and we should work for it, not just for a legging. That's it, gentlemen, allow me: this is just a legend. I don't know how many we're going to condemn for this legend, like the other cases of discrimination and incitement to the violence contained in the Royal-Left Act. Likewise, I don't know how many homophobes we're going to punish tomorrow, if the law ever passes against homophobia and so on. So, I ask you, I implore you to live up to the words and pain expressed in this House today, among other things before witnesses, a community that - I imagine - has come specifically to hear this debate: we commit, we force this Government not to destroy public school and to give the right tools so that our people can evolve culturally and civilly. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bruno]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u48	She is registered to speak Senator Granaiola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the delay with which, at last and rightly, we are debating this important measure in this House is only partly justified by the awareness that the introduction of the crime of negationism, in systems in which the fundamental right of expression exists, inevitably involves careful reflection, both from the legal and the cultural point of view and consequently, inevitably, also a heated debate. Personality and scholars of undoubted democratic culture or of great sensitivity as Carlo Ginzburg have expressed some perplexity, but I believe that, beyond some crude exploitation dictated by the worst political topicality, we can say that the debate that followed - the serious and in-depth one in substance - has honored us and offered us the tools to decide even more consciously. By approving this act, also in the light of the Framework Decision of the European Council 2008/913/JHA - which aims to harmonise the laws of the Member States of the European Union on the apology, denial or minimization of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes - we align ourselves with the legislation of most of Europe: I recall Austria, France, Germany, Belgium, Portugal and Spain. In 2007, the United Nations General Assembly adopted Resolution 61/255 on the denial of the Holocaust, which unreservedly condemns any denial of the Holocaust and urges all members to reject any partial or total denial of the Holocaust as a historical fact and any activity for this purpose. The same Resolution 60/07 of 2005, with which the International Day of Memory was established on 27 January, condemns any denial of the Holocaust since, ignoring the historical evidence of these terrible events, increases the risk of recurrence. Therefore a measure that draws its cultural roots from the tragic events of the last century, but that above all intends to operate in the current. This bill means to the Italian people that from the historical lesson of the concentration camps we want not only to pay homage and justice to that immense suffering, but above all to affirm a principle of civilization. A legislative shield against some of the worst ghosts of contemporary life, which still too often are re-enacted in an attempt to justify - here and now - hatred, oppression and violence, because racism and xenophobia constitute direct violations of the principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the rule of law, principles on which the European Union is founded and which are common to the Member States. It is therefore clear that it is a choice of civilizations that in no way intends to limit the autonomy and freedom of studies and historical research, but instead it is proposed to hit concrete criminal or criminal behaviors that are capable of disturbing public order or that are threatening, offensive or abusive, well highlighted in the second part of the bill, that part where I think I can say that historical memory meets with the current. Today in Italy anti-Semitism, in addition to preserving its specific characteristics and historical characteristics, is part of a broader and highly worrying behavioural framework: a cross-cutting picture to the whole of society, marked by violence, anti-Semitism, crime, xenophobia, racism, ignorance and probably so much fear of diversity. I can't help but remember certain ignoble banners exposed to games, screams, threats, writings on the streets and angry insults that we too frequently read on the social forums of the network. The bill we are discussing in itself cannot prevent this from happening again, just as the ban on stealing does not prevent thefts from continuing to happen. It is, however, an instrument for intervention and repression. It is above all a rule that affirms and recognizes that acts - not ideas - like those I mentioned earlier, represent a crime against the community. I would also point out that it is no coincidence that the anti-Semitic and negationist culture, accompanied by horrendous acts of violence, is also one of the connective tissues of Islamic terrorism and beyond. I shall conclude by quoting a part of the intervention made in the Commission on this issue in the last parliamentary term by the late Senator D'Ambrosio: a few words that still highlight the practicality and topicality of the subject. D'Ambrosio reminded us that negationism is never a merely historical operation and an end in itself, but is functional to the apology of a certain ideological orientation, directed paradoxically to justify activities of indiscriminate violence against the group that denies having been the victim of it in the past. Attention, therefore, because from justifying indiscriminate violence against a group, a different or a people to act violence by practicing it the step can be very short especially today, in an era of strong social tensions such as the one we are experiencing; the belief that fear of the dangers associated with the spread of xenophobic and racist intolerance is unfounded is very dangerous. That is why I really hope that this text will be shared and finally adopted with the broad convergence and majority it deserves. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u50	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet a representation of students and teachers of the institute including Eduardo De Filippo in Poggiomarino, in the province of Naples, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u51	Mr President, on negationism it was right to reflect for a long time before the draft law came to the House: there was a serious risk, in fact, of introducing a mere crime of opinion into the system, of restricting historical research and of turning, paradoxically, the negationists into victims of state truth. I believe and I hope it is common in this House to hear that making negationism, even the most abhorrent and hateful, a criminal offence represents the consolidation of a certainty in our consciences and, together, a step forward in consecrating in time an inviolable memory that must surely be preserved and nourished in the minds and hearts of the new generations. However, the legislator could not pretend to ignore that the inclusion in the penal code of this crime, without the corrections that have been made in recent months, was certainly detrimental to some constitutional rights. It is no coincidence that in the face of a seemingly fierce unity of intent between political forces on this very delicate issue, authoritative voices of dissent have been raised outside Parliament, and certainly not on the part of those who want to question the horror of the Shoah and the political and moral repulse as far as the negationists maintain, but on the legitimate doubt that it is not in any way permissible to sanction crimes of opinion of any kind, which are typical of totalitarian states, which have in their DNA the truth, precisely, of State and which shape history as they like in criminal law. When, in 2007, the then Minister of Justice Mastella presented a similar bill, which was never passed by Parliament, it was said that at the time of taking this path you know where you start but you do not know how it ends, even if from the conceptual point of view there is really little to overcome: it is beyond any reasonable doubt, in fact, that negationism is the most extreme and inadmissible form of historical revisionism and that it must be countered with all the possible force, even if - it has to be aware - it is not enough the force of the penal code to stop the regurgitation of anti-Semitic negationism: we need political will and cultural cohesion that in this historical moment do not seem to be sufficient neither in Italy, nor in Europe. According to the Union of Criminal Chambers, negationism is responded to with the weapons of culture and not with those of criminal law. This is a reasoned objection on which it was important to reflect, not even to offer the negationists the opportunity to stand up to defenders of freedom of expression, which would be the unfortunate effect of a just cause. The uniqueness of the Shoah is already a truth sculpted in history and should therefore not be approved of the truths imposed from above, by state authority such as antifascism in the GDR, socialism in communist regimes, denial of the Armenian genocide in Turkey, the non-existence of the bloody repression of Tiananmen Square in China. It must also reflect the fact that ad hoc laws on negationism do not exist in countries, including Israel, which have tragically paid on their own skin the genocides of history. We should therefore be asked what the result of this law will be when it is applied. "It is negationism" - he wrote for example Fiamma Nirenstein - "to be a fundamental weapon of contemporary anti-Semitism, in alarming increase in Europe and in stable condition of high, very high tide in the Islamic world. We can't put all the negationists in jail. We can fight all the anti-Semites politically. Fighting negationism alone is not possible, it is impossible, if anti-Semitism is not tackled on the chest, which Europe is shamefully refusing to do. Indeed, our consciences should be shaken by the fact that in 2015 in Europe we must defend Jewish synagogues and schools with the military and that thousands of Jews are calling for refuge in Israel. It commemorates the Shoah, but too often it accuses Israeli democracy, the bulwark of the West in the Middle East, only acts to defend its right to exist from those who want to erase it. By now almost half of the Jewish citizens of the EU countries have received attacks or threats related to their religion, but Europe is doing very little to combat anti-Semitism. In fact, it often denies the phenomenon of fanaticism and has supported Islamic extremism, which has settled in the heart of the old continent and in certain neighborhoods of Amsterdam as in London has even imposed Shari'a. Terrorism, which is often the armed arm of anti-Semitism, is fought with intelligence and weapons, but my belief is that ideas, even the worst and the most revolting, are first and foremost fought with the strength they possess, then, if anything, with the courts. Denialism has found its most infamous prophet in former Iranian President Ahmadinejad, who dismissed the Holocaust tragedy as a legend and alibi created by the victorious powers of World War II and Iran has achieved the little honorable primacy of becoming the first nation in the world to adopt state denialism. Well, it was right to wonder whether the right answer is the anti-denial state. There is a current of thought to which it seems absurd that the penal code goes to ban a historical thesis, albeit infamous, but the punishment of negationism with a criminal sanction is not an exception. (18.06) (Following Mazzoni). Some countries, such as Switzerland, Austria, Germany, Belgium, Spain and Lithuania, already foresee this crime and the historian David Irving has already been in jail. So we are here to talk about a problem that is right and that must be put in terms of the concept of punishable opinion. Without embarrassing the Shoah, one can only agree with those who claim that criminality is correct because there is an abysmal difference between freedom of expression and freedom of lie. We all know that freedom of expression does not cover slander, slander and defamation. The public lie, in short, should be sanctioned in a manner proportionate to the harm it produces, to the individual or to the community. According to this thesis, a state cannot tolerate that they are dealing with real absurd interpretations of history when they concerno collective dramas of humanity that have caused millions of innocent deaths, destructions, sufferings never imagined before, that is, the Shoah, because we are faced with a behavior that can cause damage to society and that, as such, must be pursued. To conclude, I believe that the appeal of the president of the Jewish community of Rome, Riccardo Pacifici, for a swift approval of the bill against the denial of the Shoah should be accepted. The text approved in the Commission is a correct and balanced text, because it minimises the danger of introducing a crime of opinion and limits the criminal relevance to public incitement alone. Faced with the new wave of anti-Semitism and the numerous recent episodes of murders and violence against the Jewish communities, defending the memory also with the law has become a necessity that can no longer be postponed. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u52	He is registered to speak Senator Corsini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u53	Madam President, the debate evokes an extremely serious problem, but I would like to make a joke: scholars know that Tiberius had a great historian who told the story: his name was Tacitus. De Felice, unfortunately, has a somewhat more modest fate, because his story is told by Mr Scilipoti. [[Applause from Senator Cardinals.]] Having said that, when for the first time I came across the text that is at the origin of this procedure and of this discussion, I confess that I have nourished many perplexities and obvious oppositions: in fact, I reject the idea that a lie, even a lie of extremely serious proportions, that deconstructs public sentiment and annihilates constitutional principles, such as the denial of the Holocaust or of horrendous war crimes, can be countered. So I wondered whether the text that is being proposed to the House would allow us to overcome this opposition and this reluctance and, as far as I am concerned, the answer is positive. Here we are absolutely not in the presence of the risks that the communities of historians rightly and legitimately drew to our attention when, at first, the text to some extent evoked criminal sanctions against the historical lie. What were these risks and failures? They were basically the following. First of all, there is the risk of feeding an ideological or nationalistic vicious circuit. It is worth, for example, the case of the opposition between France and Turkey in relation to the genocide of the Armenians, against which Turkey has been accused of a genocide committed in Algeria. There is a second risk which I think this text certainly does not run: I am referring to the fact of transforming the historical past on the basis of an alleged state truth, which delegitimisates historical research, which is always the product of a debate and a critical evaluation of a confrontation. This state truth would produce what scholars call the courtization of history and, that is, the history to which it is required to judge and condemn. It is a risk that Cross already evoked. There is an extraordinary step in ethics and politics in which Cross writes that history neither absolves nor condemns, but explains. Finally, there is the third risk, the most worrying from the point of view of disorientation that can produce with respect to public opinion, to widespread conventions and to the custom: it is the risk of the victimization of those "historical" - I use quotes because no one can recognize them a solid belonging to the scientific community - that deny the dramatic and horrendous truth of extermination. It is historians who deny but do not ignore because, in reality, behind their positions, it is an unsaid: Hitler did not carry out the Holocaust; it is up to us today to destroy the Jewish presence. This is the unsaid of so-called historiographical negationism. Now, there is no doubt that, as much as my critical suspicion and my reluctance are to some extent removed today, the assessments and judgments expressed by a historian such as Carlo Ginzburg remain in all their earnestness, who rightly argues that, ultimately, if it is true that negationism is not an opinion but a lie, can a lie be turned into a crime? That's the question mark. That's not the case. It seems to me that many Members have misunderstood in some way the nature of the debate we are conducting. We are not debating whether we want to turn the lie into a crime and, still, remains the pregency of a question put by Joseph Yerushalmi into "Uses of oblivion" where we ask ourselves: is it permissible to think that the opposite of oblivion is not memory, but justice? It is rightly said that, at a time when justice is opposed to oblivion, victory - this is the risk - is oblivion. However, the fact remains that, when justice enters the field of writing and memory, it must move with absolute grace. Justice cannot be like an elephant entering a crystal store and this crystal store is history. There is an extraordinary step of Plato's Phedro in which Socrates, reasoning on the relationship between writing, justice, truth and lie, basically says that writing is like a pharmakon, but it is to be demonstrated whether it is cure or poison. It is precisely by moving on from these warnings that colleagues who have committed themselves to writing the text that is now before us that we have been asked to propose a document, a guideline, a line that avoids the risk of these falls that I referred to earlier and that any historian who is careful and warned cannot fail to consider. Why do I find the text that has been produced convincing and that is being offered to us today? Because, in this case, we do not discuss the sanction of a possible orientation of thought, an opinion or a lie. This is the problem faced in Germany by the Auschwitz-Lüge in the face of the lie of Auschwitz; it is the problem that has been addressed in France by the Conseil Constitutionnel; it is the problem that has been addressed in Spain by the Constitutional Court. Here we sanction a behavior, a behavior: we do not sanction an intention, a judgment, an opinion, no matter how ignoble, no matter how lying, no matter how false it is. That is why we, who are children and who are the expression of a guaranteed culture that wants to keep together respect for the truth and respect, precisely, for the rights of dignity, not for ourselves, but for the other by us, today we feel, as it were, pacified and tranquilized in relation to the problems that the critical conscience raised in relation to the first two texts that had been presented to us. Today's text achieves a positive balance: it is a virtuous text, which allows us to give a positive vote and, above all, to feel the duty of responsibility and commitment. During the previous parliamentary term, we conducted a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the development of anti-Semitism (President Fiamma Nirenstein). We have striven to regorize the categories - anti-Semitism, anti-Judaism, anti-Zionism - and we have verified that there are absolutely new and current forms of neo-Jewishism that run above all on the web (the so-called black web). Well, it is significant that our commitment has been inherited from the House by a bill the first signatory of which is Mr Milena Santerini, who wonders on which can be the reagents and the civil and positive responses recorded in the sign of respect for the values of which we are bearers and expression and which we cannot in any way negate or deny. It is, above all, not only the commitment to innovation in legislative production, but also the commitment to training, education, the orientation of consciences and the internalisation of the values of tolerance, respect and recognition of the other in his face and in his name: this is the sense that we want to attribute and that I personally intend to attribute to the favorable vote that I will express on this first measure. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u54	Senator Manconi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u55	Madam President, senators and senators, today's debate is extremely important, because the subject we are dealing with proposes what the philosophers of law call a tragic choice, namely a conflict between two goods equally worthy of protection: on the one hand, the right to full freedom of expression and speech, and, on the other hand, the right to the protection of the dignity of the person as a fundamental value. In a democratic system these two rights can conflict and seek the way to their composition is a very difficult undertaking. And often beyond our reach. In general, I think that a democratic system can be strong and mature enough to tolerate any heinous word, any cruel propaganda, any claim likely to offend individual and collective sensitivity. And, however, I believe that all this - this capacity for infinite tolerance on the part of democratic systems - can find a limit: and that that limit lies precisely in the intangibility of the dignity of the person. All the more so when that person is a most vulnerable person, as is the victim. And the victim is a symbolic and at the same time terribly concrete figure. It is the image of an injustice suffered, but at the same time the real object of that same injustice. Well, when freedom of expression and speech comes to mortify the dignity of the victim, I believe that here, at this point, a standard is needed. An intervention of the law to protect that primary good, and primary for the whole of society, which is the dignity of the person: so that the latter good is not, I say not trampled on, but not even damaged by that other primary good that is the full freedom of expression and speech. Well, we are at this crucial point. I have been following this debate for years and up to now and this text I was strongly opposed to the use of criminal rules and sanctions such as prison, for the cases we are debating. Today, I believe that the draft law before us presents important new features. I share almost entirely the intervention of Senator Corsini; I just think that he has exaggerated in evoking the grace with which this bill would have been written, because grace is indeed a virtue to which it is difficult for the legislator to draw, but certainly there has been an effort of intelligence and balance, which induces me to vote in favour. It would be very useful to go into the matter; since I do not intend to do so by arm and - as you know - because of my handicap I cannot read a text, I ask that I be able to hand over the written intervention to the offices. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u56	The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Manconi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u57	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I regret the lack of participation in an important debate, but I am flattered to speak after the lucid reflections of President Manconi. The text we have before us has dealt with a very serious and, in my opinion, particularly interesting course of study. As it is right that it is in the face of the analysis of sensitive topics, such as the configuration of the crime of negationism, a phase of confrontation has opened between different positions, which has led to the formulation of the current legislative proposal, more harmonious than that which was the last proposal of unified text, also because it has rightly wanted to respond to the doubts that emerged in the debate about the risk of introducing a mere crime of opinion that produced a restriction of the fields of historical research. Surely this risk was inherent in the original wording of the text. In fact, I would like to remind this House that the confrontation was very lively in 2013, especially because the awareness by colleagues of those who would have been the reflections of the norm itself, not only on the management of the historical memory of events potentially subject to denialism, but also on the value that was intended to give to the events themselves to convey to young people and future generations. And all this assumes a special significance in these days when important commemorative moments have alternated: from the memory of the Shoah to that of the victims of the foibe. This bill I believe is placed in the same commemorative scenario and wants to show itself as an instrument of memory consistent with those heartfelt invitations to memory and awareness of which the institutions make themselves spokesperson. All this, however, brings with it a great responsibility: do not neglect any event and do not create improper boundaries between historical events that could - in my opinion - create confusion as well as compromise that memory that is our priority to protect. I recall, as an example, that in 2013 in the report to the bill, in delimiting the object of the crime of negationism, the pronunciation of the French Constitutional Council was erroneously recalled, which at the time rejected such a law in the matter of crime of negationism of the genocide of the Armenians. The report stated that the pronunciation states that there are different characteristics that characterize the two different historical events, referring therefore to the existing difference between the genocide of the Armenians and that of the Jews. A reference that could not be compared with the text of the judgment of the French Constitutional Council. In fact, it is worth pointing out that from reading the text of the above-mentioned pronunciation there is no reference either to the connotations of historical events or even less to a hypothetical comparison between the genocide of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire and the Jewish Holocaust. Moreover, the judgment of the French Constitutional Council does not contain any reference to the historical truthfulness, proven by the international community of experts in this matter, and recognized by about thirty countries including Italy, the European Parliament and the United Nations Human Rights Commission. The above ruling focused on the potential impairment of the right to freedom of expression and communication which such a regulatory framework could have caused and on a formal defect in the text which would have affected the regulatory power of the law. For this reason it seems crucial to escape any limitation or historical definition of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, potentially the subject of the crime of negationism, precisely in order to avoid that the crime of negationism can apply exclusively to the Jewish Shoah, excluding in fact other significant historical events, such as the genocide of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire, as an example, also in view of the fact that - just as in the case of the Armenian genocide - the criminal events are the object of denial by countries where they have been perpetrated or not yet happened. So we realize the delicacy of the theme. All this assumes an even more important significance if one takes into account that the twentieth century was characterized by crimes against humanity and genocides on a large scale, followed by lack of condemnations and oblivion that have generated others. And it is precisely on this awareness that the adoption of the bill must be based today on the consideration of this House. I remember that on August 22, 1939, a week before the invasion of Poland, Adolf Hitler concluded his infamous speech where he predicted the final solution, with the following question: "Who, after all, remembers today the annihilation of the Armenians? This episode, in my opinion, clearly exemplifies the rationale of our parliamentary intervention. And the regulatory commitment that we must bear in mind today takes on an even greater significance in the light of the shameful violence perpetrated by the militiamen of ISIS in the occupied territories and by the massacres of Boko Haram in Nigeria that are not so far from those massacres of which we demand the protection of memory. The absence of limiting assumptions for the application of the law, without making specific and selective reference to certain historical events, but limiting itself to the cases outlined by international norms is undoubtedly an added value: especially with a view to the application of the law in cases of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes unfortunately not yet happened or, however, not yet defined as such. But the power of this rule lies not in the deterrent power that this should have, but in its cultural reflection. That is why I agree with the ratio of the agenda accepted here, which focuses on the role that the formation and knowledge of historical events, and I would add also the modern ones, must have in schools, as an indispensable element in order to ensure that memory is really such and that the future is not compromised by ideological degenerations. With this bill we assume a cultural responsibility even before institutional, and with it our order wants to make effective a path of historical awareness so far - alas - still heavily circumscribed. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u59	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, we in the 5 Star Movement have expressed our support from the outset for a measure which, in some way, goes to sanction serious behavior, certainly to be stigmatized, such as that of those who deny genocide and Shoah for biech political interests, which rely on ignorance or even on racism and xenophobia. A sanction invoked by Europe, which should have been a strong voice of political, cultural and social condemnation, rather than a legal one. In fact, there are no words to stigmatize the behaviour of those who speculate on the death of millions of people, violating a memory that should instead be considered sacred. A memory violated not to follow the search for a historical truth, which must always be free and protected, but to bring home a much more miserable booty in terms of electoral consensus. For this reason, we had already signed in May 2013, as a parliamentary group, the first version of the draft law that was discussed in the Commission and that should have come to the debate in the Chamber. Then, however, the Justice Commission was convened in the deliberating session. I recall that the notice of the convening of the sitting in the deliberating session arrived at 13.39 p.m. with a vote scheduled at 14.30 p.m., i.e. after less than 50 minutes. We had less than 50 minutes to decide how to vote in the deliberating session on a measure of this importance. The Commission was also called into question and, if I may say so, in contempt of other important work in this House at the same time. Now, as this is an important and sensitive issue, we would have preferred a public debate in this House of far more importance, such as the one we are now implementing, also to have the time to consider further amendments, which had been announced by representatives of other groups in the Commission. All that haste was justified only by the possibility of making the most of the media relevance of the measure, certainly not the political one. We assumed, therefore, as the 5 Star Movement, the responsibility to ask for the debauchery of the deliberating seat, in order to bring the measure to the Chamber, as previously established, and we opposed its hasty dismissal in the Commission. We assumed then, essentially against the opinion of all the groups, an important responsibility. The 5 Star Movement had the courage to impose its own line of prudence. On the other hand, if we had not opposed it, that bill, not this amended one that we are debating today, would have been approved in the Commission in the deliberating session. And for this decision we have been accused of everything, even xenophobia. When the whole Senate came to this House, it basically gave us reason, not only by not approving a measure that risked doing much more damage than it would have liked to do, but even by putting it back to the Commission once again, and this time in the referee. In other words, if it had not been for the 5 Star Movement, we would have passed a law in Parliament that would sanction an intention, a judgment, an opinion, the same freedom of opinion and historical research, and we would not be here now to discuss its naturally much improved and widely shared version. It is good to remember these facts, as it is well to remember the sudden statements then made to the press by the leader of the Democratic Party Luigi Zanda and by the president of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs Anna Finocchiaro who, in relation to the perjury of the deliberating seat, have even come to speak of devastating fury that comes down on the measures of civilization, the measures of then. I believe that in the light of the facts mentioned, an apology should be made to the Movement both for intellectual honesty and for the sake of truth. Without the intervention of the 5 Star Movement a law would have been passed that would have gone to subject to sanction any conduct of denial of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, thereby compressing in particular the freedom of opinion and historical research. In fact, the denial did not appear - to be criminally relevant - to have to be aimed at the commission or the incitement to commit crimes, to proselytize or apology. For this reason, the Assembly has decided to refer it back to the Commission and in that forum the orientation which emerged initially was diametrically reversed, with the aim of including the negationary case in Article 414 and, on the contrary, the return to the way of amending Law No 654 of 1975. In particular, in the current wording - for the purposes of the punishable conduct of incitement or propaganda - the condition that the conduct itself is carried out is public, so as not to give importance to purely private conduct. There is therefore an increase in punishment if propaganda, public incitement and public incitement are based in whole or in part on the denial of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes or of the Shoah. This measure therefore limits the criminal relevance only to the conduct of instigators committed publicly and introduces a worsening of penalty in cases where propaganda, public incitement and public incitement merge in whole or in part on the denial of the Shoah or genocide crimes, crimes against humanity and war crimes, as defined by the Statute of the International Criminal Court. In this way, the freedom of opinion and historical research are protected and at the same time a principle is affirmed, in the form of aggravating the presupposition of the crime, which certainly could not be lacking in our order. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u62	Madam President, as several speakers have pointed out, we are in the presence of a legislative text which represents a time of relapse of a very important, real and interesting debate, which involved the Justice Commission before and the Assembly now, on issues that go beyond the specific legislative text under consideration, covering some fundamental elements of the legal civilization of a country and the forms of being together. There have been very punctual interventions before mine, such as those of Senators Manconi and Corsini, who have highlighted how we are discussing and have long discussed the relationship that the legislator must define between two goods, both to be protected: on the one hand, freedom of opinion and expression; on the other, the right to be guaranteed in the integrity of his dignity, good repute and security, and, in the specific case of the proposal we are talking about, in that supreme good, which represents a fundamental trait of the identity of a person and a people, which is memory. Memory is in fact a good that is part of our person and our identity and deserves the protection that is due to the dignity and integrity of a person. The debate has been true, because in a genuine spirit of confrontation between different positions we have been looking for the limit to be placed between the two important and worthy assets to which I have just referred and I believe that the text we are debating today represents a very advanced point of balance, capable of guiding this Parliament also in the definition of other legislative acts. In fact, we have dealt with this issue several times in the current legislature: I am thinking of the recent debate on the draft law on defamation or the debate, which until now has stopped in the Commission on justice, on the draft law against homophobia, which, like this, represents a proposal to amend the 1975 Royal Law and its updating (Legge Mancino, n. 205 of 1993). On the subject, in the Human Rights Commission in the Senate, we had an interesting discussion with the UN representative on freedom of expression and we were able to discuss where to set a limit. Of course, international acts and commitments made by our country help us, first of all the framework decision of the Council of Europe of 2008 on the fight against racism and xenophobia, which asked the signatory countries to intervene specifically with legislative measures to make them punishable, among others, public apology, gross negation or minimization of crimes of genocide or against humanity, war crimes, as defined by Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the crimes referred to in Article 6 of the Statute of the International Military Court, annexed to the London Agreement of 8 August 1945 on Nazi-fascist crimes. I must stress here that the level of criminality provided for in the proposal we are debating remains below what is required by the Framework Decision, confirming the wisdom and moderation with which we have approached this issue. I would also like to point out - others have done so before me, but I believe that this is a key element of our debate - that the draft law under consideration is in no way aimed at punishing an opinion. Certainly, opinions and expressions cannot be without limits and this is not a point on which we start from scratch, already existing in our criminal order such as slander, defamation and false testimony, in which the words spoken by a person can constitute a crime. I would like to mention here in particular a statement by the European Court of Human Rights that denying crimes against humanity is one of the most serious forms of racial defamation to the detriment of Jews and of incitement to hatred against them, and that observations contrary to the basic values of the Convention do not enjoy the protection guaranteed by Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, that is to say, the protection of freedom of expression. Therefore, the highest body that the European Union has endowed itself with to guarantee the fundamental rights of the person places a limit on the same freedom of expression and opinion when this constitutes a damage or conflict with other goods protected by the fundamental principles of the ECHR itself. Despite this, we stopped a step earlier. In fact, in our proposal we do not consider in any way the expression or definition of negationist theories as a crime in itself; in our proposal we constitute the expression of negationist theories as a crime only if they accompany other crimes already provided for by the so-called Royal Law of 1975. We speak of propaganda of ideas based on superiority or ethnic racial hatred, therefore, attention: not propaganda in itself of negationist theories, but propaganda of ideas based on superiority or racial hatred when accompanied, precisely, by negationist theories. And again, through a change that we make of the Royal Law, we define, as the same framework decision of 2008, the public character of a possible incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence, and we insert as aggravating the fact that that crime of incitement to racial discrimination, hatred or violence is accompanied by the affirmation of negationist theories. I believe that we have done a good job, with the utmost prudence that a discussion and a confrontation between different positions have led us to put in place, but defining in a manner - I hope - as much as possible the relationship between freedom of expression and opinion and the protection of a possible person offended, in that important, high place, worthy of maximum protection, which is respect for the deep dignity of a person, a social group, an ethnic group and his right to his memory. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u63	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u64	Madam President, I admit my embarrassment because I find it difficult to understand what we are talking about. The memory of the Shoah, according to who has a culture, a socialist DNA, like the undersigned, whose grandparents knew that historical period, which nobody wants to retrace, and according to common sense - first of all I think it must be specified what the Hebrew term Shoah means, or unexpected calamity - cannot become a religion; it cannot become a dogma, nor an obligation, but it must be a choice, a path of human and historical knowledge, a free acceptance of the voices of the witnesses, the existence of testimonial places and books of those who analyzed evidence and documents (I will return on this point that I consider crucial: human knowledge). It must be a patient and passionate to sew individual stories with collective history. All this can be done by law, but it must be done by a political and cultural link that establishes a community. To make Sic et simpliter crime negationism means to sanction the defeat of education. We are here to sanction the total defeat of education towards future generations. It is the Union of Italian criminal chambers itself that criticizes the idea of holding back an opinion, even the most unacceptable or unfounded, with the criminal penalty, since one of the cornerstones of our Constitutional Charter (Article 21 (1)) provides that no limits are placed on the freedom of manifestation of thought. "Although ethically acceptable" - says the Union of Italian Criminal Chambers - "every limitation to the exercise of political freedoms introduces a vulnus to the principle that the list of them must remain absolutely incompressible." And this list - as the socialist Calamandrei said - cannot be crossed without regressing towards tyranny. It affects, therefore, the unanimous condemnation and reproach cast on those few senators who obviously felt that they did not think like me, that I say that a law must be made anyway and that my Group will certainly contribute. However, I would like to address the reflections that Calamandrei made and those that the Union of Italian Criminal Chambers did, as well as those that are being made and that have been made in other States. Moreover, it is far from clear what the crime of negationism refers to, since it is foreshadowed to punish anyone who sets up activities of apology, denial and minimization of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes: a very vast horizon in which the Shoah, this unforeseen calamity, is automatically relativized. In a history book I found that on October 2, 2006, Ukrainian president Viktor Juščenko had a law passed for the punishableness of anyone - including historians and researchers - refused to define Holocaust as the Holodomor, the frightening famine of 1932-1933 induced by Stalinist policies. In the same year, in France, a law was passed that made the denial of the Armenian genocide punishable. Also in France, then, in 1990, the Gayssot law had turned the denial of crimes judged by the Nuremberg court into a crime. If this had also happened in Italy, our Piergiorgio Odifreddi at this moment would be in the patrie galere. Therefore, by institutional means, a correct thought is likely to induce a reaction of compulsion that can easily be transformed into the idea that it is revolutionary and antisystem to profess the opposite. Of course, I am not entertaining you on other matters. As I said at the beginning, I want to return to the theme of human knowledge, perhaps by law providing an obligation to better study history, a book, to grasp the voices of witnesses. This is because it would be better to condemn the negationists (instead of having a clear and shared idea of who they are, on the ladder that leads from Irving to the boys with shaved heads who speak nonsense, stupidities of pack), forcing them to study, to read, to listen to the stories of the witnesses, to visit silently the extermination camps of Dachau, Sobibor, Auschwitz, Birkenau, looking long, without being able to detach the gaze, the photographs, not the piles of corpses, not the transports in which the prisoners immortalized by the SS were already reduced to anything else, but those of the previous lives, of the families, of the children who were exterminated there. I believe that this is the task of educating when we come to enact a law in order to inflict imprisonment on those who deny facts that history has largely demonstrated and of which, as I have told you, our fathers, my grandparents, have witnessed that they have had to endure these atrocities. The same conference that Ahmadinejad wanted on the Shoah gave topicality and re-launched in some way the problem of the denial of the Shoah, of the crimes of communism, of Pol Pot, of what the Armenians had to endure on the part of the Turks. In fact, a considerable number of publications printed or running on the web raise theses which, in various ways, intend to deny or at least severely reduce genocide and we must fight them. It does not seem to us, however, that it is a service to the history, truth, democracy or memory of the victims themselves, limiting itself to demonizing these theses, to showing their racist or anti-Semitic cultural matrix. A historical thesis must be judged only with the categories of false or true, no matter the political, religious, cultural and not even the ethical belief of those who support them. Even worse, it seems to us to invoke the rigour of the laws. There is neither a truth sanctioned by laws nor by the judiciary. As is well known, there is always talk in law of procedural truth and not of truth. If an accused person is acquitted or convicted, this does not mean that he has committed the crime of which he is accused, but only and simply that in the context of the trial (and only in that) such fact has emerged and, perhaps for political matters, he was deemed at that time to issue a sentence. Dear colleagues, at this moment I cannot fail to refer to a great Italian statesman, Bettino Craxi, who has suffered unjust sentences that are the result of the truth of the case and do not represent the absolute truth, because in fact history was right to him when Italy was the fifth economic power of the world and when the reforms were done and were done in the interest of Italy and the Italians. So we must not fall into the simplistic idea that the judiciary can give a final and definitive truth about the facts of history. On the contrary, anything else: history teaches that the judiciary in fact has almost always been wrong in comparison with history. There is someone who even wants to invest the judiciary also in the task of deciding on the truth of the foundations of the Christian religion, expressing himself on the actual reality of the life of Christ: everyone can see how ridiculous such a proposal is. Madam President, I shall therefore begin to conclude my speech, partly because I will make further reflections in the explanation of vote. We shall therefore vote on this text, which is illustrated by the rapporteur, Senator Capacchione, of which we have great esteem and confidence, but it represents the acceptance that the Italian State has failed in its task, which is mainly of a cultural nature. What we are afraid of is that this becomes a war of religion. Let us be careful, ladies and gentlemen, to keep clear of the so-called crimes of opinion: in the temple of democracy we cannot afford to trample on the fundamental rights of our Republic, such as freedom of expression, while always keeping in mind that this freedom also finds precise limits and regulated by law: one thing is negationism, another is revisionism. We always keep in mind that it is the winners who write history and that, in hindsight, there may be certain parts of certain wars, which should be more or less revised. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to stress the importance of the text in our examination: we have helped not to exaggerate and maintain it within the limits of the lowest common denominator, even though we thought that perhaps we could do without it. It is therefore a measure which constitutes the lowest common denominator and the lowest balance: the rapporteur - if God wills, we have this rapporteur! - tried to smooth the corners and sharp sides, which could have hurt our Constitution. I therefore hope that this text will be an incentive to resume what I think is the most important dogma, namely that the cultural issue should be pursued. We need our kids to be trained, but not just about history or philosophy: they need to be able to touch hands and go see what really happened. Only by looking at the images of past life, in fact, is it possible to understand how happy families have been reduced. What has happened to them is - neither more nor less - what happens to all the thousands of people and families who have been demonized by evil justice, who may have been economically serene and happy, before being arrested or preventive prison by the criminal justice, and then being judged innocent, after decades. The holocaust of these families, individually, is the same as that of those who have suffered the atrocities of the Shoah, Pol Pot or communist regimes. We therefore consider it necessary, by approving this law, to adopt, in the future, other laws that restore dignity to all those who have suffered - individually and not as a collective or people - the evils of our criminal law, which the European Court of Human Rights shows us and blames us every day, hoping that this Parliament will finally become more guarantor, more reformer and less justiceist and maximalist than it is now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u65	Madam President, today - as all my previous colleagues have reminded me - a very delicate debate has begun in this House on the Senate Act No 54, which aims to include in the penal code, through the amendment of Law No 654 of 13 October 1975, the crime of negationism. The Justice Commission has cross-cuttingly found the square, as they say, on this bill: all the Groups have given a positive opinion that the denial of the existence of crimes of genocide or crimes against humanity is a apology for crime. Madam President, we are talking about negationism, a term that indicates the attempt, led by pseudo-historicals and spreaders of various kinds, to deny that the Shoah has ever taken place. These gentlemen, who call themselves revisionists, try to prove that the Hitler regime has never planned the extermination of the Jews, deny the murderous use of gas chambers and reduce the number of Jews killed in the lagers to a minimum. The Shoah is made to pass as a gigantic scam ordained by the Jews to blame the West and, in particular, Germany. Hence, even scholars, as early as 1987, switch from the use of the term revisionism to that of negationism. Denialism in Italy is certainly transversal, from the right to the left, and it is also religious and, even, esoteric. In negationists we find high school teachers and university teachers. Some of them have even organized university masters dedicated to negationist issues. One of these bad parentheses is, for example, the story of the art history teacher of artistic high school who was denounced by a father of a student who was guilty of having a Hebrew surname and who had said, accusing her of being clever and dishonest, that the Holocaust, concentration camps and videos on deportations were false facts after and not in the original historical period; he questioned the number of deaths saying that six million were not sure and that the estimate was absolutely incorrect and that during the war - heard, heard - everyone was thin, not only who was in the concentration camps. This professor was acquitted after the complaint perhaps because there was no law like the one we are now approving. In light of this, to think that negationism is a small self-referenced universe I think it is wrong and at least reductive of the problem. This phenomenon for a long time has been silent; then it has resurfaced and now presents itself with dramatic constancy denying the evidence of the extermination of the Jews and with it all the criminal conduct connected. A great historian wrote that one should not talk to the negationists. He also wrote, however, that it is still necessary to study how much they have been spreading for decades. They spread lies, omissions, distortions, more or less inadvertently transposed even by the common sense of the people. Madam President, it is a fact that there are as many as 18 countries in the European Union that have had anti-negation law, starting from Austria in 1945, to reach the last, Hungary, in 2010. There has also been a very strong stance on the part of the UN, which, in a resolution, calls on the Member States to combat this phenomenon without delay. Madam President, there are also those who - they could not be otherwise and we would not be here to talk about this measure - think differently, I would say quite differently. There are those who have defined this provision as yet another law of acquaconsciousness; those who, as important Italian historians and not only, have taken sides against this provision already at the time of the then Minister of Justice Mastella, who had prepared some articles (six articles, to be precise). Their concern is that it is unthinkable to address and solve the cultural and social problem, certainly relevant, of negationism through judicial practice and the threat of imprisonment and condemnation. They also argue that negationism has multiplied the echo for the excessive attention that has been paid through the media, thus offering to become defenders of freedom of expression. It creates a state truth that, in their opinion, would eventually delegitimize that same historical truth, having a result diametrically opposed to that hoped for. It is clear that, in the light of all this, there has been a debate, sometimes very harsh, between the two opposing fronts, for and against the law. There are those who think that that of the negationists has now become a daily and increasingly heavy attack; an attack on the memory, history and dignity of the people. Then there are those who think that one should still find a way to put an end to this incessant harassment perpetuated by the negationists. Denialism has reached levels of diffusion and violence, especially on the Internet, and the only indignation is certainly no longer sufficient to remedy it. It must certainly be opposed. Madam President, if negationism tends violently to deny the historical reality of the Shoah, it is true that, as often happens, the more we talk about it and the more the subject takes strength and spreads. In this humus, after Mastella's parenthesis, the idea and the need to insert the crime of negationism within our legal system have resumed. Madam President, to say that this is a sensitive issue is clearly not enough. It is a debate that has involved ordinary citizens, ourselves politicians and historians; a debate that leads to questions about the possibility of codifying by law the possibility of repressing in the bud attitudes that lead to spreading historical falsehoods capable of leading people (especially young people) to prejudice and doubt. It is a debate that leads to questioning whether a law on negationism is capable of altering freedom of opinion; in these days have arrived by e-mail of these negationist lords, who consider it liberticidal, unconstitutional and contrary to human rights: is there not the risk of establishing a state truth on these historical facts, delegitizing its history and historical truth? The state that decides by law what is scientifically possible to say and what is not. A certain Mr. Pietro Terracina (one of the last survivors of the extermination camp of Auschwitz) said that he did not agree on an anti-negational law, because he would do with those who deny a martyr. So let us ask ourselves this question: is it perhaps better to keep things going as they are, with such a broad idea of freedom of thought? I don't think so. Then my colleague, Senator Stefani, will be much more precise in explanation of vote as regards technical data. Let us hope that this issue will not be reflected solely on the Shoah. I would also make some reflections on other human tragedies: the foibes, for example, of which today is celebrated on the Day of Remembrance, perhaps because here we can speak of state negationism and, of course, of revisionism in these missed years. Think of the silence maintained so far on the massacres of the foibe by those who wrote the story and to whom the truth certainly does not return comfortable. I would also like to make a note, Madam President, on this afternoon's issue in the House. There was, in particular, a request from certain parliamentary groups for a debate on the Foibe issue before the beginning of the plenary session. All the groups have spoken, but the peculiar and strange thing was that the celebration of this day took place at 4 p.m. during the plenary session, in the Queen's Room, which seemed quite unusual to us as a timing. I should like to conclude, Madam President, by asking whether negationism can also be put to death. I think so, Madam President. We can also die and die twice, if we think, for example, that the Turkish Government continues to deny that one and a half million Armenians have been murdered under the Ottoman regime. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] ; and here a serious reflection on the entry into Europe of this country is at least desirable and appropriate. You see, Madam President, you die twice if one pockets 600,000 euros from the Region to deny the world that the land of fires exists; and you die inside if you want to pass the idea that the Shoah is the great imposture of the 20th century, that Auschwitz and the gas chambers are an invention of allied propaganda, that the millions of dead are few hundred and even died of disease. This law, Madam President, will see its fruits in the near future. Then, specifically, Senator Stefani will be more precise in explanation of vote. Of course, I believe that this law must be accompanied by a historical-cultural work of attitude, memory and continuous research. To deny, however, is to acknowledge that the drama has been there. On the other hand, Madam President, if Anna Frank was not really the author of her diaries, we do not understand where Faurisson and his comrades get the information they need to evaluate the child's personality negatively. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u66	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I know that political correctness would require a different speech, an alignment with the positions of the large majority, which is obviously taking place here. But on the fundamental principles of our civil coexistence it is often necessary to seek different positions, even in the suffering that this search imposes on us and in the tiring uncomfortableness of saying things with sincerity and concern. I will not speak on behalf of the Group. For the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE, while using time (I hope briefly), but I will speak personally, because on certain issues everything is entrusted to our sensitivity and to our subjectivity. A small clarification to Senator Cappelletti: the omission of truth does not help the truth, that is, the omission of pieces of truth does not help the truth. The blocking of the legislative work in the Commission of this measure was certainly with the decisive contribution of the 5 Star Movement Group, but the decision of the Group For the Autonomous-PSI-MAIE in requesting the debate in the Chamber and not accepting the legislative seat was equally decisive. I believe that often we must have the courage to take positions that are not convenient and not to exploit the truths that I believe are irrefutable. It is a difficult task to affirm the absolute conviction (at least this is mine) of the certainty of the events certified by the judicial judgments of the international courts in relation to the events concerning the Jewish genocide and, at the same time, not to limit the activity of a dialectic, albeit instrumental, aimed at other objectives that others would like to put in the field. The boundary between the lawful and the unlawful in this matter, which until it is nouned in material actions is relative to opinion, albeit wrong, is a boundary that becomes difficult to determine by law. Obviously, the need for historical verification can have different values on facts that are proclaimed, close and lived and other facts that are not sufficiently pronounced and far from us from time and from a geographical point of view. We must therefore have, even in the absolute conviction that the events we are talking about have happened and have happened in the terms in which it has been written, the courage to accept the confrontation with others who, I repeat, by making an instrumentalization for different purposes, deny its historical existence. I would like to make a few brief comments on the legislative act. I believe that we have certainly improved the measure in the Commission, and in this sense, therefore, the haste requested at the time was certainly not useful to an effective development of the measure itself. I wonder, however, whether we are sure that there is no rule in our penal code which allows, in the presence of an effective will, to counter this behaviour from a judicial point of view. Colleagues, I think that these possibilities already exist in our code, but I also raise the question whether, while these instruments exist in our penal code, it is useful, on matters of this kind, to use the penal code. That is the question we have to ask ourselves. I wonder whether for an action of denial of such obvious, serious, tragic facts, to such an extent accepted and accepted by the international community, a judicial instrument can be used to counter activities of cultural change, before actual, of events that have that dimension. I believe that, with the adoption of a measure and the call for judicial measures, we only make a hole in the water, rather we put on a pedestal those who want to exploit these irrefutable events in a favourable way. Another question that I ask myself is, since the sanction does not prevent the murder of the person, whether it is possible that the sanction prevents the murder of the truth, of the tragic news, the most tragic of humanity. I would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to these facts in order to lead you to a reflection: we need to affirm the truth every day, we cannot save our conscience by including in our penal code a specific reference to this tragic and unforgettable story until the end of humanity. We want, with this act, to allow us to have an educational system that reproposes day by day the affirmation of this truth, that creates these sensibilities that are necessary for a true contrast to those forms of humanitarian violence that are unprecedented and unforgettable. I do not want to take too much advantage of your attention and time, but I simply want to call for deeper reflection. It is not a question of being in favour of or against a measure simply because it is intended to mitigate a measure of conflict. The aim is to strengthen it, however, but from the point of view of its daily concreteness and not to include it within a page of the penal code, which already provides the norm that sanctions the incitement to racial hatred, introducing a specific aggression that, frankly, I already find in the penal code. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u68	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u69	Colleagues, as already announced to the groups in the short term, tomorrow's afternoon session will begin at 5 p.m. to allow the meeting of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u72	PIGNEDOLI (PD). Madam President, following a heavy snowfall that has affected the Province of Reggio Emilia (and the entire western part of Emilia-Romagna up to Piacenza), there has been a severe blackout with the interruption of electricity for more than four days, starting from the night of February 5. A long interruption that has created great inconveniences, especially with regard to the blocking of heating systems. Thousands of families, schools and elderly facilities have remained in the cold. There have been interruptions in production activities, with enormous difficulties and serious repercussions from the economic point of view. The most worrying thing, however, within this emergency, was the level of management or, better than non-management, by ENEL. We are talking about coordination, and certainly not about the commitment of the operational teams on the territories. We find that, in the presence of a colossal interruption in the supply of electricity, the President of the Province of Reggio Emilia, the mayors and the prefect of Reggio Emilia had, in the first moments, great difficulties to have even an interlocutor in ENEL that could provide information and that could indicate possible times of restoration that could allow civil protection, constantly active, ready and competent, to organize itself and to intervene adequately. I believe, as a representative of that territory, that an intolerable situation must be denounced by the electricity operator and that an organisation of total inadequacy of ENEL in the event of an emergency should be highlighted. There has been a system of total inadequacy of the system of communication between operators and public administrations, between operators and citizens. I therefore ask, Madam President, that the two questions that we have tabled, also with our Emilian colleagues, should be given the appropriate attention on this issue and that immediate response be given so that immediate action can be taken, so that there is the possibility of compensation and recognition, as the mayors have asked, of the damage caused to citizens and businesses, so that there is the possibility of identifying specific responsibilities. Reggio Emilia and the provinces of Emilia are certainly not used to complaining. They have demonstrated this by reacting strongly to the earthquake, to the sequence of extraordinary devastating climatic events (from floods and hailstorms that destroyed productions), to exceptional snowfalls such as this one that has destroyed hundreds of greenhouses in these days and compromised the productions and incomes of the vintage of farms. But in the face of the reaction force of the communities there must be those essential services, those public services that support people's lives with efficiency and direct contact. That is why we call on the Government to make it clear as quickly as possible. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u73	The Presidency will ask for answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u76	Mr Pagliari (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senator Pignedoli has basically anticipated me, but I want to give a voice, sharing what the senator has said, to all the complaints that have come from the mayors of Parmense, from the people of that area who, affected by this exceptional snowfall, have been in a natural difficulty aggravated by the absolute disservice of ENEL, which has not yet reactivated the services, with incalculable damage. They are damages that refer mainly to the discomfort of people, families, pupils, the elderly and businesses. Some mayors are very concerned not only because, for example, residential facilities for the elderly are in a difficult situation, often without heating and in emergency conditions, but also because in the mountainous territories the need to assist the elderly, even in their homes by helping them, is put in great difficulty by the fact that ENEL not only does not reactivate the service, but gives discordant communications, assurances "as a sailor" and then, not resolving the problems, puts in serious difficulty the mayors. They, in fact, on the basis of the ENEL's indications assume certain interventions that they cannot then carry out and therefore, in the absence of the same interventions, they found themselves in the situation of having to add emergency to emergency. This is not only an unacceptable fact towards people, but it also shows that the mayors are untenable difficulties, which they have found themselves having to assume responsibilities that they would otherwise have handled in other ways. I believe that this is a very serious incident and that it would be absolutely unjustified to keep quiet and I believe that the Government must respond to this. Taking into account what Senator Pignedoli has said, together with you and other senators, I have submitted an urgent question because this episode (not only because of the local meaning but also because of its wider meaning of unsustainable inefficiency of an essential service) must not be forgotten or unanswered. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u79	SCIBONA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to make the House aware of the recent filing of the exhibit presented on 9 July 2013 by ten mayors and seven councillors from Valsusa and the Municipality of Rivalta, concerning the crazy costs paid by the LTF for the management of 11 toilets from construction site (Chiomonte cantiere) for the realization of the TAV Torino-Lione, or rather of the geognostic gallery. Insane costs also relating to other supplies. Many municipal councils had in fact considered, with their respective resolutions, that the costs were exaggerated: and through you I also ask the senators of the House if they believe that the figure of 324,000 euros of expenditure is appropriate for 11 months of cleaning of 11 toilets from yard (80 euros per day only to clean, to which the costs of water and rent must be added). For the water we speak of 160,000 euros. In addition to that I remember that the gates were paid 6,500 euros each, as if they were galvanized, and currently they are all rusty; or the lighthouse towers, for which 451,000 euros were spent, therefore 1,300 euros of rental per day, when it would certainly cost less to buy them. With good reason, I would say that these costs are inadmissible. Even the construction site was not a residence of the President of the Republic, whose royal costs we know! Do we want to talk about the bleak hot rental system? I promised. Renting means and facilities with staff is in fact a sub-contracting. The escamotage used means, however, that the sub-contracting rules and the percentages defined by the rules do not apply; and here the costs rise. Maybe it's to share cake with friends or friends of friends? On the other hand, the established (by the Public Prosecutor and the Turin judges) inapplicability of Italian legislation to the contracts of the FTT and, in particular, of the SOA legislation, wonders whether this principle will also be applied in anti-mafia matters: and we know very well what consequences there could be. In fact, if the SOA is not necessary because the French law applies, the mobsters could also operate on the site; so much, thanks to the new Treaty that has been adopted in this Chamber distractedly, the applicable law will be only the French law, which we know well does not contain the anti-mafia clauses proper to our legislation. Yes, there will be additional protocols. But we will watch and see when they are actually there! This filing isn't a good idea. It seems that the prerequisite for the filings and the no-place to proceed is the unconfessible prejudice, that is: never give reason to the No-TAVs, in any case! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u82	Mr Albano (PD). Madam President, I would like to point out in this House that I have tabled some urgent questions and that after several months they have not received any response from the Government. First of all, I would like to point out three of my questions concerning the situation of the prison system which, in my region of origin, Liguria, is very complex. In particular, I would like to ask the answer to questions 3-01000, 3-01415 and 3-01417. I would also like to ask the answer to question 3-0075, which deals with another heavy problem, that of the reorganization of the post office system, which provides for the closure of 41 offices in the Liguria Region alone. This question was tabled on 5 March last year, which was also urgent. Once again, I find it intolerable to have had no response, given the importance of the problem, as it affects the lives of Italian citizens in an unjustifiable way, especially as regards those who live in small mountain and rural municipalities. I am therefore going back to urging the Government to give me an answer to the questions that have been raised and to all the others that are still waiting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u85	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, I am overwhelmed by what Mr Albano has said. Poste Italiane, a company controlled by the Ministry of Economics and Finance, is implementing a new rationalization plan that provides for the closure of many post offices and the opening to alternate days of many others. This is happening throughout the national territory and is happening in Lombardy, where 65 offices are scheduled to be closed and the opening every other day in 120 others. In particular, in my Province, Lecco, there are seven offices forced to close and nine those called to operate hiccups because considered by the uneconomic Post Office. The decision is to be condemned in method and substance. In the method, because the plan was undertaken unilaterally, without involving the municipalities concerned, who learned the news from the press many days before the official communication, which has not yet been received by many. On the merits, because many offices affected by the decision are located in hamlets and mountain municipalities, which already live conditions of disadvantage and which in recent years have already seen disappear schools, shops and medical studies, with a fatal blow to the social life of the communities. This is another hard blow to the mountain, other than valorization! The Italian Post Office plan, which still finds the money to recapitalise Alitalia, will make the quality of the service even worse. Local communities involved, families, businesses and mayors are alarmed and seriously concerned. But in particular, terrified are the elderly who, as is known, do not have the car and in the mail they went so far on foot to withdraw the pension or to pay the bulletins. These will have to be based on local public transport, also hit by government cuts and therefore inefficient in the future, to cover several kilometers, perhaps to get off the hill and get to the valley floor. This is unacceptable! On the matter, on 4 February I addressed to the Minister for Economic Development the parliamentary question 4-03359 in which I ask to intervene, including by promoting a consultation between the Italian Post Office administration and local administrations and the ANCI, in order to avoid the inconveniences and in order to ensure the effective provision of a public service of timely and widespread quality. My speech is intended to bring the problem to the attention of my fellow Members, so that they can be made aware of it, but also to formally urge the Minister to respond to my question of 4 February.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u88	BLUNDO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address briefly the delicate and paradoxical situation in Picenze, a fraction of the municipality of Barisciano, seriously damaged by the earthquake of 6 April 2009. Even in Picenze - and this is not new - reconstruction operations are still firm, almost immobile and this is not only due to the considerable bureaucracy that exists both in governments and in the local ruling classes, but also due to the lack of certain funds. The presence under the houses, of what has unfortunately remained, of tunnels and underground spaces that were used in ancient times as shelters for shepherds and cattle and, after the Second World War, as real outposts of the main houses, are a reality that could be valued. The continuous requests by residents to return as quickly as possible to their homes are, up to this moment, fallen into the void because the recovery and enhancement of this underground heritage, which is fundamental, is an operation that really should be evaluated and agreed also with the experts of the university of the territory. To date, however, there is still no study, serious programming and there is therefore a risk that reconstruction will be done with over-pochism and superficiality. I had already asked and asked a question on the subject, for the process of reconstruction in Picenze and to ask for a safety of these caves. The problem is that the mayor of Barisciano and the special office for reconstruction are actually proceeding without starting a consultation table - we are waiting for it - between the superintendence, the office reconstruction, precisely, the Municipality and the owners. My question dates back to a year ago and I would like to ask the answer because already at the time, in this written question (the 4-201942), addressed to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and to the Ministers for Economic Affairs and the Environment, I asked to put in place, within the limits of their competences, all the necessary steps to prevent it from being indiscriminately rebuilt on caves. There have recently been cave collapses in the part concerning the road of Picenze; if the same thing happens after we have rebuilt the houses I think it becomes waste of public money.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u91	VALDINOSE (PD). Madam President, I would have preferred not to have to speak today on the subject that I shall be discussing, concerning the serious situation that has arisen in my region, and particularly in Romagna because of an exceptional wave of bad weather. The heavy rains and the strong winds that fell on the Romagna between Wednesday and Friday caused tides along the coast and floods up to the inner areas: in less than seventy-two hours they fell about 100 millimeters along the coast, while in the inner areas, such as the Lughese, the Faentino, the Forlivese and the Cesenate, the accumulations were about 130-170 millimeters, values in general also three, four times higher than the average rainfall of the whole month of February. After the emergency on Friday, with many underwater locations both for the tides and for the flooding of the rivers, the Emilia-Romagna Region has activated the procedures to request the state of natural disaster. Last Saturday an emergency meeting took place in Ravenna between the President of the Emilia-Romagna Region and the mayors of the Romagna Municipalities affected by the exceptional wave of bad weather. The Region has asked all municipalities to send within this week a report on the damages suffered and their economic quantification. The Region has also decided to allocate the sum of 5 million to deal with the most urgent interventions. A precise estimate of the damage is still not possible. A first assessment assumes that tens of millions of euros are the real damage, to which will then be added those deriving from the agricultural and commercial sector. In my city, Cesena, the weather station of ARPA recorded over 142 millimeters of rain during the night between Wednesday and Thursday. The most serious damage was recorded in the south-eastern area of the municipal territory, that is the one hit by flooding. The condition of other municipalities in the territory of Cesenate and Forlivese is also complete: among these Gambettola, Cesenatico and Savignano paid the hardest price, with floods that have compromised the road and forced several families to move away. In Gambettola the overflow of the Rigossa stream flooded with water and mud the old town, with considerable damage to homes and commercial activities. In Cesenatico the impact force and violence of the waters of the Adriatic, with very high waves, have uprooted dozens of trees, overwhelmed cars, garbage cans and everything they encountered on their way. Most of the underground hotels and houses have been flooded. The Municipality of Cesenatico has been for several hours temporarily isolated due to widespread flooding on the road arteries and heavy floods have also registered in Cervia, Milano Marittima, Lido di Dante and Savio and Porto Garibaldi in Ferrarese. There is considerable damage to the structures of the waterfront baths, which will have to be helped in order not to compromise a decisive component of the regional tourism economy. I want to express all my closeness and solidarity to the people and families involved who are still facing this serious situation, with the usual industriousness and ability not to give up on the Romagnoli. A heartfelt appreciation goes to all administrators, prefectures, operators, citizens and volunteers. Now it is urgent to restore the defenses of the sea as soon as possible, reopen the connections, intervene on the landslides and on the damaged drainage grid. The priority is that of the local authorities and the Emilia-Romagna Region to respond to citizens, businesses and damaged establishments, for a return to normality that requires maximum commitment from all. For this reason, today, a question has been submitted, signed by all the Emilia-Romagna senators, to the Minister of Economic Development and the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea to ask among other things, given the extent and complexity of the damage caused, if there are conditions to declare the state of emergency and national calamity, as already requested by the President of the Emilia-Romagna Region. Another particularly important request, which so many administrators have told me these days to share, is to exclude from the Stability Pact for the current year the expenses that will be incurred by local authorities to cope with damage and to restore the status of the places and the security of the territory. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u92	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-387.ana.u93	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 11 February, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.48 p.m.
