ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 18 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u8	The next item is: "Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 25 and 26 June 2015 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Dr Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u9	Mr President, Senators, Senators, the European Council which starts tomorrow takes place a few hours away from an extraordinary summit of the Heads of State and Government of the euro area, on the crisis situation in Greece, in the relationship between the Greek Government and the European financial and economic institutions. It can therefore be assumed that, regardless of the agenda, the subject of greatest impact, alongside that of immigration - on which I will come shortly - will be the relationship between Greece and Europe, between the permanence of Greece within the euro area and the possibility for financial and economic institutions to write a new page, starting from both the contingent situation, i.e. the Hellenic condition, and the report of the four Presidents that should be presented. Therefore, I propose that you draw your attention essentially to two major issues of discussion, on which to focus Italy's position: the economic and financial aspect, linked to the Greek situation and the report of the four Presidents, and the migration issue, which should be addressed on Friday, also in the light of the decisions already taken by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Defence, as well as by the Ministers for the Interior. Of course you will forgive me if I devote less space to other issues, which are particularly interesting for us too; indeed, they are decisive and crucial because - I would like to highlight this with a big marker - the agenda of the discussion of the next few hours will contain some of the issues of which more than others we have highlighted the importance during our semester. I am referring to the digital agenda, to the need to have more attention on growth and employment issues, but also to a comprehensive European strategy that - let's face it all - has to deal with itself after years when Europe has probably failed to demonstrate the same intensity and strength that it itself set itself as its goal in the Lisbon Strategy for 2020. It will therefore also be these central themes of the debate, starting from the assumption that the Italian position on them is widely shared, including within Parliament. In other words, there is a need to stress not only the Stability Pact but the final part of it, the Stability and Growth Pact, and therefore the need to set up a European economic idea differently. On these issues, I believe we can take as a point of reference the considerations we have already made during previous communications, previous statements and votes on motions, in some cases also shared with at least part of the opposition. I'm trying to be very synthetic. The first point concerns the economic situation in both Greece and Europe. We are in the presence of a financial turbulence that, for the first time in four years, does not concern Italy. It's a fact. Who of us, on opposing sides, does not remember the images from Cannes onwards - then it was a G20 summit, not a European summit, in which, however, there was a clear European leadership - until the events of the last few months, when there were problems in the financial and economic markets? Italy always ended up not saying on the bench of the defendants, but certainly on the side of the table left to the students, who had to prove whether things were doing it or not and whether they were prepared. In those examinations, Italy took on the role of the student to whom to ask for the verification of commitments made. It's not like that today. And of course this is not enough for me, it is necessary but not enough, because the signs of economic recovery, which are undeniable and indisputable, are still, in our opinion, timid. There is still much to be done, first and foremost in terms of the unblocking of infrastructure and construction sites. We have recently taken stock of the situation, imagining that at least 1% of GDP is the value of public works blocked for delays or problems between institutions, and it is an incredible figure at a time of difficulties such as the current one. Then, all the more so, we need an even stronger effort than Parliament and the Government in this direction. But the key point is that, if today Italy is in a position to no longer be on the bench of the accused or of the students to be examined, it is not due to magical phenomena coming from outside, but - I mean here with much loyalty - to parliamentary activity, because the real fund saves States of Italy this year has been the ability to make structural reforms. I express myself in a less shrewd way. We have finally achieved a structural reform project that still needs to be implemented. If we can say that we have closed down certain reforms (work, electoral law), we still have work to do on the public administration and the civil justice system, as well as of course on the issue of constitutional reform, which must be concluded. This gave the Italian ruling class the authority dictated not simply by the role of individual ministers or the President of the Council, but by the fact of representing a country that, after years of more or less shared discussions, finally realizes the things that it assured to do within its parliamentary classrooms. I would like this passage to be clear, because it is the starting point for any debate. Then we know that there are different views within us on individual reforms, but structural reforms are the safeguard clause that allows Italy to sit for the first time, in a system of financial turbulence, on the side of those who are safe, and not on the side of those who are under consideration. From this point of view we must have the courage to tell us that, if the path still has spaces of action and improvement, we have nevertheless brought home some measures and others will be the subject of discussion already in the next few hours. I am referring, for example, to the decree-law which the Government passed yesterday and which, after the provision on popular banks, constitutes a further element of reorganization of the credit system, on which there will be different opinions within Parliament, but which constitutes the desire to finally put an end to a debate that has been held in Europe, even with anti-Italian accents, for too long. This package of reforms is for us the instrument of certainty, the safety belt compared to what we are experiencing. It is not enough, however, because there is a double priority in the debate that opens tomorrow afternoon on this issue. The first is to say that, if it is true for us, it must be true for everyone else. We say this with great affection to our friends who lead the Greek Government. A journalist asked me what Rome says in Athens. If we have to say something from Rome to Athens, we do it in Latin: "Amicus Plato, sed magis amica veritas." There is no doubt that the clarity of positions is rewarding with respect to the more or less strong harmony on the issues of the need for a change in the direction of economic policy. In other words, the Greeks and the Greek Government must know - and we tell them with the affection of friends and with the closeness of those who know the difficulties that the Greek people have suffered in recent years - that there is a very strong pressure of part of European public opinion, in particular of some countries, to use the window that opens as an opportunity to close the accounts with Greece and to eliminate once and for all the issue of its presence in the euro area. We have said that with this frankness. There is no relationship of friendship that can prevail over the risk that the people run in view of the climate has been created, especially in some countries of the euro area. And I am referring not only to those of the oldest European tables, but also to those that entered after, in the second wave of European enlargement, which paradoxically today see the need to give more or less convincing answers to their public opinions on the subject of Greece. Greece must therefore know that there is a large number of political and institutional leaders in the European institutions who will do everything to help it, because this is right and proper. In addition, alongside the obligation of the Greeks to respect European rules, there is also a moral obligation, historical and linked to the recent past to the Greek people. But - this is the key point - even in the case of the Greek Government, the effort must be reciprocal. In this sense, I believe that the work of the Eurogroup - and I thank the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance for what he has done - and the work of the last few hours, which may not be completed in the European Council (the deadline is set at the end of the month for reasons that you all know), must see a strong, determined and tenacious awareness of the risks that would arise if the agreement did not come about; risks that are running - I must say the truth - particularly in that country to which many of us are bound by a feeling of gratitude and affection. I shall conclude this point by adding a final word, a postscriptum: we have said that we must insist on the report of the four Presidents so that the debate is real. The first drafts that circulate are interesting. Let me say, however, that I am a little shy in relation to the contribution that Italy has made to the debate. We have said that Italy no longer suffers from the risk of financial turbulence, because the structural reforms that Parliament has made and is making enable it to look at the present and the future with much greater serenity. [[Comments of Senator Bottici]] We have said that we need investment in innovation in the economic debate. However, there is a further step, which will then also return to the final issue of immigration and the overall agenda: Italy needs to live this discussion with even greater protagonism. This applies first of all to us, to the Government. We must probably identify some places of reflection, places of university and research. I myself will be in Berlin next week, in a prestigious university. The relevant ministers are working on this issue. It is necessary for the competent Commissions and the people who work in Parliament to report to the national press, as they are doing - surely they must be helped to emerge even more - the message that, without Italy's voice, the European economic debate is less strong. For the past four years, we've been worried about saving our lives. We stopped debating at European level, giving any horizon or vision because, when we did - and it was of course done at all levels - the first reaction was: you say it because you need to save Italy. In fact, according to a strong prejudice in the debate within the European public, the position of the beautiful country was still affected by a marked national interest. Today, however, that the situation is finally becoming more normal, there is still a need for Italy, which is consistent with its cultural, philosophical and intellectual history - not only from the Treaty of Rome onward - to be able to make its voice heard more and more in the European political and economic debate. Let's be honest: from 2000 to 2015 Europe was not what Lisbon had designed, that is, the place of the greatest possible innovation in the history of the planet. Europe, after Lisbon, had to and wanted to be the continent of innovation, talents, patents, quality, economic growth and investment in employment. Instead, if we look at the results from 2000 to 2015, as Europe we have lost positions. We have seen other realities emerge and Europe has slowed down - it has not stopped - and the fact that some countries - not all - have gone well cannot be an obstacle, an alibi for those same countries not to open a deep discussion. From 2000 to 2015 the great European dream of making Europe the home of innovation has failed and there is no one who can say otherwise. Europe continues to be the home of civilization, the home of values, the place where ideals are given and defended (we are at the forefront of the battle for environmental sustainability). But on the subject of economic innovation, over the past fifteen years, Europe has missed the blow. That is why Italy needs to return to Italy in the political, cultural and academic debate. The second point on which a large part of the debate will be played is what more than anyone else, at the moment, occupies the television discussion in Italy, but also the media discussion in Europe. I consider it a good thing that we are talking about it, and I am not afraid that we are often talking about it with demagogic and worrying accents, because the ability to find the right words is up to a political class that has to do this, otherwise it is not credible. This is therefore a challenge that I intend to take to the end, knowing that it is not easy and that it has always crossed the Italian and European left with difficulty, but also the other political forces that make up the Government. It is in fact very difficult to manage the immigration issue by finding a right way between the danger and the fear it creates and the need for a solution that is not a structural failure to goodness and superficiality. It's not easy. It has never been easy and it will not be easy in the next few months. I know that on 24 June last year I was in the Senate, with you, to present the European Council. There was no talk, basically, of immigration. This was discussed, it was reasoned, but the debate focused mainly on economic issues and on the need for Italy to leave the stage of difficulty and to recover, after years, the most sign in jobs. This is a subject, of course, which occupies the concerns and hearts of Italians, according to all the surveys, in a way far superior to any other, as it is natural, just, proper and understandable. But then, on June 24 last year, 59,600 citizens had landed on the Italian coast. Today the number is substantially similar, slightly higher: 61,400 citizens. Today, however, there is a profound novelty. This theme is the theme of the opening, for days and weeks, of all the initiatives of a communicative nature that are in place and is, at last, a priority on the European political agenda. It's about understanding how we want to deal with it. There are two avenues: the first is that of political confrontation. Maybe. It is on talk shows. It is so in the daily debate when election campaigns are taking place. It is at the moment of the confrontation, even ideological and philosophical, which can, of course, enrich our debate. It's a guess. We can choose to stay in the permanent election campaign, or to address this problem in a structured, solid and institutional way, as a great country does. I'd like to be clear. No one lacks the opportunity to play against the past because, if there is a principle on which the political class can afford the luxury of fighting from morning to evening, it is precisely that of turning the past on others. It's easy here too. It is easy to go back up the chunks of the agreements, starting with the Dublin agreements. It is also easy here, going up the slope of discussions on the past and on the fact that for years it has weakened the main instrument of international cooperation and relationship with the countries of Africa. It is easy to do so even in reverse parts, because of course everyone can play their cards in a clash that is of a strictly party nature. If you go this way, it is implicitly said that the theme is not an emergency, because it is claimed that it is so little emergency that it can be exploited in a partisan clash. If you accept the principle that it is an emergency and a problem, then you try to find solutions knowing, and starting from the assumption, that the solutions must be found involving everyone. That is why tomorrow morning, with Minister Alfano, we will meet the Presidents of the Regions and a representation of the mayors. We think that if we really want to tackle this problem in a structured way, it is the Italy system that has the duty to intervene. The principle that the Italian system has the duty to intervene starts from a presupposition. Today the Dublin agreements say one simple thing: those who arrive in Italy and have the right to asylum, that is to say to an international protection linked to the situation of war or tension from which it comes, must be welcomed in the country in which it arrives, in the country of disembarkation. It is a profoundly wrong principle, in my opinion. [[Senator Puglia's comments.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Change it, then! Let's change! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. Imagine that we can manage principles of this scale without considering that we are talking about a European border is clearly a political mistake. However, we know that when you are inside a community, a consensus is needed to change the rules. And the agreement to the structural modification of the regulation not only does not exist today, but I believe that it will hardly be there tomorrow, for a very simple reason: if there are political forces that invest in the fear of our country, thinking thus to take votes, the same happens also in other European and world countries. For us, with a provincial look, it can be a problem that stops in Ventimiglia or - if you want - at the stations, but the problem of immigration in the global flat world has residence in Calais, Arizona, Texas, Burma, the Strait of Malacca, in our beloved Lebanon - where the number of refugees and refugees is incredible - or in Kurdistan. When one goes to Erbil and sees those refugee camps, made not by hundreds, but by hundreds of thousands of people, he realizes that thinking of giving an answer based on a Facebook post is not wrong, but ridiculous. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] In view of this, then - bearing in mind that then there is a place where we can discuss and argue, which is the confrontation between parties - I want to propose to the Italian Parliament that we take note of an institutional fact: Europe starts from these rules, on which we must be clear. Those entitled to welcome must be welcomed. We call on Europe to take care of and take care of other people with us. It's not a numerical problem, because we can't do it alone. Italy is not a country of the bullocks, which we can continue to represent abroad and our outside world as ridiculous and grotesque. We are a great country that is even in a position to afford to do it on its own. [[Comments of Senators Airola and Bottici]] It is Europe that cannot afford to do alone or to think that it has a foreign policy entrusted to individual states. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] I could come here and say that the problem is that different choices have been made in the past. No. I call on all political forces to help the Italian Government, which has been voted very positively - in my view - with a motion to the European Parliament a few days ago, when - for example - it was said to move towards a redistribution system. [[Senator Paglini's comments.]] The main center-right opposition of this country has chosen to vote in favour, together with the majority parties, both right-wing and left-wing, because it is a right principle - in our opinion - to be able to predict the redistribution of the people who arrive. Similarly, looking in particular at the left of this House, I want to say that we can no longer be afraid - if anything - of concepts such as repatriation. It must be clear that we are culturally proud of the effort we are making to invest in international cooperation, on which for the first time in 27 years there is a law. Thanks to the work of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Economic Affairs and Finance, in the coming days I will be in Addis Ababa to underline the value of Italian commitment to international cooperation, especially towards Africa. We are proud of the effort we are making on international cooperation with women and men of military forces and volunteering, who are going to save lives, because in the face of a saved life there is no survey that holds [[Applause from the PD Group]] I am proud of the angels of the sea who, on behalf of Italy, save thousands of people. Faced with this, however, we must be clear with ourselves: when we arrive in Italy without a title, the return procedures must be speeded up. Efforts to cooperate and agree with countries must be linked. There are no international cooperation agreements with those who do not accept the possibility of a return procedure. On this subject, perhaps, we have been too shy in the past [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups]] , despite a very serious job done by the then Prodi Government, and I would like to remind you that at the time the Minister of the Interior was what then became President Napolitano. That effort was then strategic, but sometimes even in our world there is the idea of repatriation as a concept that is frightening. We must be serious: those who have the right to stay in Italy must remain in Italy; those who have the right to asylum must obtain it, but asylum must be conceived more and more as a European operation, and not only Italian. Of course we will proceed one step at a time, because it is not possible to do it in a tranchant way. But at the same time the left cannot be afraid of concepts such as compliance with the rules, concepts to which we must tenaciously cling in order to avoid the risk of a wave that is questioning the very idea of Europe. My generation believes in European identity, and not only because it has had great masters, but also because it has witnessed symbolic gestures. And for my generation - but I also think for others - the most symbolic gesture does not go back to Adenauer or De Gasperi. It is not a gesture that dates back to 1957 or subsequent years. For my generation, and simply for personal reasons, the symbolic gesture of European identity is November 1989, when the Berlin Wall, which we had studied as the cornerstone of European geography, goes down. [[Senator Puglia's comments.]] Today we risk that those 14 years old, the same age I was when the Berlin Wall fell, will see a wall built. It is the physical wall that someone would like to build between Hungary and Serbia. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] And even more so, Italy needs to insist on European enlargement, particularly in Serbia and Albania, because the organic design of European construction has been left in half. It is not possible to expand only towards the Eastern Partnership and leave Serbia and Albania in the hands of a situation of tension such as that which paradoxically could be created and which, yes, is particularly dangerous even from the point of view of public order, a situation in which two realities, which are not involved in the process of European integration, are left, some ten kilometres away, by sea miles, from our home. Go ask Albania's Prime Minister Edi Rama what happens when there was a delay of just six months in the definition of Albania as a Member State: some phenomena of religious fundamentalism, which in that country are still present and strong, painted a Europe in which Christians did not want to welcome others. That is why it is essential to have a little more look to avoid the Europe of walls, and I address all of us who have known the Europe that the walls were knocking down. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]] It is certainly a challenge that we must overcome at the European Council tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, but let me say that it is first and foremost a cultural challenge. In these hours there have been controversy that I do not share, but respect. There was - for example - a controversy, while I was at the G7, about the possibility of a health emergency. There has been talk of a scabies pandemic. Let me be clear on this point: the risk of a pandemic on our planet exists. At that moment, at the G7, we were discussing exactly this. In fact, and we have seen it with ebola, there is a strong international focus on the risk that an outbreak of health problems will explode worldwide. But journalistic reconstructions only lead to virtual reality. In physical reality, the work that we are doing as an international country and that we have done on ebola and that we continue to do by building scenarios of concern tells us that the disease brings it to the airliners, bears the evidence that there is a global reality in this world for which every day we must be careful, at the forefront. And it is no coincidence that Italy has internationally recognized institutions because Italy in the world is not the one that has the problem of scabies. It was a hundred years ago when we were taking the scabies to the United States. Italy is that of Spallanzani, of our nurses, of our doctors, of our recognized world leadership on these issues, to which we should all say thanks together, rather than continue to play on the theme of fears. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senator Buemi]] That's where the challenge is. Is the European Council to be won? Yes, I propose that you address the European Council as a country system because I believe that this is a value for Italy. However, I also propose - and I say this in particular to the political forces - to face the second battle, which is the cultural battle because today we are living a time in which fear seems to have put solid roots everywhere. It is an economic, cultural fear, linked to the theme of the different, of the other, of the one who seems to come to take away your own identity. Defending identity is a great civil and cultural value, but defending one's identity means making a cultural bet about what we have been, about what we are and want to be. We can spend time retorting the past, but I think it will be useful, after this European Council, to try, starting from the outskirts of discontent, to try to build more and more pieces of the future. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] This can also be done in opposition, but when you go to Europe, you do it by representing a solid country, supportive and capable of saving human lives and able to respect the rules even more than we have ever done. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u10	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate. [[Senator Puglia displays signs bearing the words: "No to the bad school." Parliamentary assistants shall remove the signs.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u11	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to focus my speech on immigration and summarize the spirit of your words on this subject as follows: how to reconcile the feeling of solidarity, which cannot be an option in the face of the tragedy of those fleeing from war and poverty, and to manage this phenomenon rationally by finding realistic and effective solutions. This is the challenge today of those who take care of public affairs in Europe and in national states, at least for democratic forces. Immigration and refugees is certainly one of the most important and felt problems in the country, but the truth is that the inability to manage and absorb a part of immigration, especially in legal form, also stems from our economic crisis, from our social degradation for which all political forces, none excluded, are responsible. Unfortunately, it is also a deterioration well represented by those who raise their minds, it feeds the fears of the citizens, already stressed by the fact that they have to bear the weight of an economic and social crisis that recent history does not remember. That is why we are far from being able, as in Germany and the United States, to take advantage of those who today can represent wealth, such as immigrants. However, today this untenable wave, this tsunami of refugees is objectively a problem and the legitimate demand for security on the part of our citizens cannot be underestimated and disregarded. While from the stands there are those who continue to scream and speculate on the difficulties and sufferings you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have kept the bar straight in these months and have continued to work in Europe to find possible concrete solutions. I believe that important progress has been made. Your talks with European leaders have produced results, but unfortunately they are not enough, and we know that; you know that too. Europe can no longer afford to waste its time with ambiguity; just as we can no longer afford to let British ships continue to dump thousands of refugees as goods and then return to their home, in Britain, with clean ships. It is time for precise and effective solutions. We need reception centres organized directly by the European Union also on African territory to identify that minority of refugees who seek asylum (and have the right) and reject others. We need a fair distribution of refugees that all European states cannot refuse. And we need decisive action, aimed at the destruction of boats not only in international waters. It is clear, however, that this plan can only work if the Libyan question finds a solution, otherwise from the political and governmental vacuum that has been created after the questionable military intervention called for precisely by countries like Great Britain, which today comes from its own responsibilities, and from France, which tempts, will continue to flow unbridled a mass of migrants exploited by the new slave traders and unscrupulous criminal organizations. On this level too, we will see whether Europe has a diplomatic and political force capable of unlocking the Libyan situation. In conclusion, I am convinced that the issue of immigration is a test case for each of us, for each of us and not just for the Government; for all European democratic forces and for the European Union. In this spirit, I believe that at tomorrow's European summit, Mr President-in-Office, you will be able to count on the support and trust of all Italians. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u13	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, during my speech I would like to focus on the second part of the report by the President of the Council on immigration. The same President of the Council reported the data of the Ministry of the Interior according to which since the beginning of the year amount to 61,000 refugees arrived in Italy. So if we want to join the government's version and vulgate, we can say that the number is not higher than last year's. But it is equally true that at the end of 2015, according to the trend of the last two weeks, we will total at least another 170,000 arrivals reaching a total of 340,000 people in the biennium, that is a considerably higher figure than all previous years. It is evident that the phenomenon has been completed out of hand, especially in recent months with the operation Triton as a result of which, thanks to the increasing use of foreign ship, the ability to recover migrants at sea has increased. It is therefore easy to conclude that, on the one hand, arrivals will increase and that, on the other hand, fewer and fewer people will be able to leave and, even, many more will return from European countries, which strictly and pedissequly apply the Dublin Regulation, first recalled by President Renzi. Italy has thus become the Lampedusa of Europe: we continue to enter, but very few will be able to get out, while we have now largely exceeded our capacity to welcome in order, in compliance with national laws and European rules, as well as the indispensable minimum standards of humanity. People know and they worry. It is not about giving in to fear, as the President said before, or to the emotions triggered by the "different," which is often desperate and has a thousand reasons to come here to us. It is a question of understanding how to avoid major problems: just think of the unstoppable degradation of urban areas around railway stations, abandoned and put to further, very hard test by the arrival of unsustainable quantities of migrants, or the well-founded risk that this humanity - strangled between dinghies, hullers, police controls and reception facilities overwhelmed and dilapidated - will end up slipping rapidly into the spirits of criminal organizations or become sensitive to the sirens of Islamist radicalization. Having these problems doesn't mean taking advantage of fear. To give fear to those who put them is irresponsible. [[Applause from Senators Liuzzi and Rizzotti.]] The Government of the Republic is not a ONLUS: it has responsibility for the internal order, the security of its citizens and the efficient functioning of the health and welfare structures dedicated to them. We are in a situation where the only advice that a rational interlocutor can give is the classic "you should have thought about it first" and avoid reducing yourself under these conditions. As if that were not enough, it is sad and uncomfortable to have to note that the care circuit for migrants, fed by public money, is the subject of various judicial investigations for corruption, whose contours are still far from being defined. These last considerations are even more bitter if it is reflected in the fact that Italy is confronted with the problem of the reception and management of migratory flows for twenty-four years now. It was 1991 when, between the end of winter and the beginning of summer, they first landed in Otranto, then in Brindisi, and finally in Bari the first thousands of Albanian citizens, who fled the regime of Ramiz Alia. At that time our country did not yet have the perception of the migratory phenomenon, which was recorded with increasing numbers on our coasts. After twenty-four years, however, it is serious that this long experience has not been put to fruition, valorizing the good practices, which have also abundantly registered themselves, and correcting the many mistakes made. Accompanied by these reflections, today we are wondering whether European action is useful, to be developed under the aegis of the UN, which aims to reduce the transport capacities of criminal organisations by destroying their naval means. We have to ask ourselves how things could have gone if we had not abandoned the policy of readmission agreements, aimed at the containment and "starting" control of illegal immigration flows. This policy has become increasingly indispensable with the progressive unravelling of the Libyan state structures, which has deleted one of the main interlocutors in this field. Without these agreements, which are very effective if entered into on a bilateral basis, what is lacking, like it or not, is the main instrument for deterring illegal immigration: the repatriation - as the President of the Council has also said - of those who have no legal title to stay in the territory of the Italian State. The model to follow should be that of countries such as Australia, Canada and the United States, which, as is well known, have established certain rules for years and followed a policy of firmness on immigration, focusing on the integration of regular immigrants and on continuous and unavoidable returns for those who do not qualify. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]] In order to achieve these objectives, however, it is also necessary to invest appropriate sums for the return of all irregulars. From this point of view, the numbers coming from the government are significant... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] I shall conclude, Mr President. If we examine the budgetary data of the Ministry of the Interior, we notice a vertical collapse of the appropriations aimed at the various activities necessary for the expulsions: without resources to invest, the calls of President Renzi on the necessity of return are worth nothing. We need to do this because experience and political rationality do not allow us to expect effective or, even less, decisive action from the European Union. In this case we are not asked any transfer of sovereignty, but only to exercise what we still have, waiting for the unlikely awakening of the drowsy European consciences and the dilatory stagnant negotiations in the marsh of the UN Glass Palace. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tronti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u15	Mr President, I believe that the words of the President-in-Office of the Council have revealed a very precise fact: the awareness that it is a difficult time for relations between Italy and Europe. And this is not because of our country, but because the moment is difficult precisely because of the relationship that Europe has with itself. There is like a suspension, a pause made of uncertainty and therefore of strong indecision. Politically uncontrolled emergencies are added, the long economic and financial crisis, the loss of a historical centrality of the Continent, which today comes to the last consequences, the migratory pressure from the South of the world that finds us unprepared. But under these phenomena it is necessary to identify the underlying fact, the driving cause of everything else. I would say this: the story of the nation-state, which had governed the European balance between war and peace, at least from the Treaty of Westphalia onward, has become extinct, but has not yet found, beyond itself and above itself, a new form of exercise of political power. The nation-state has lost its sovereignty without any supranational and suprastate substitution sovereignty. Here is the land of no one in whom we politically live today. The governments - our young President-in-Office of the Council will have noticed - do not have all the political power of decision in their hands. This picture is full of consequences, aggravated by the problem that it is not that an overpower is lacking, but that it is not political overpower, but economic-financial. Economic union tightens up its relations, as we saw yesterday from Juncker's statements. However, the Greek crisis should also be read in its symbolic form, in homage perhaps to the gods and heroes of ancient Greece. In short, there are basic instances of peoples, wages, pensions, workers, who have given a mandate to political representation. On the other hand, there are the compatibility of currency and market that contradict those demands. Well, the two dimensions can't contrast: they have to reconcile, they can't win one and lose the other as in a championship game. This is very close to us. I wonder: but what world is this, where people are on one side and on the other the numbers and numbers act against people? On the one hand, workers, pensioners, unemployed, on the other hand, accounts, accounts and still accounts. I think it's time to reopen the chapter of a system critique. One voice rises today to condemn this condition and it is that of Pope Francis; we should all listen to it. Let's not let ourselves be closed in the alternative all accounting growth-austerity: behind, below, there is the great theme that must be brought out, to which we must give voice and give practical amenability: it is the relationship of conflict between politics and economy. That's the real point. If we do not return politics to Europe's place of command, the idea of Europe will perish and the European ideal will be overwhelmed by the mistrust or indifference of its peoples. Beware, it is the same thing the irrational, mass, anti-political and anti-European drive. It is no coincidence that these movements are being consolidated today, which perhaps it is not even correct to call populists, because populism has also historically been a serious, progressive thing, in the United States, Russia and Latin America. These are really the movements of fear and resentment, with reasons, unfortunately, objective. It is these reasons that must be struck, in order to remedy: it is necessary to put hand in a political project in Europe, supported by a ruling, political and European class (and I have read in the President's statements also this need). The peoples of the countries, of the nations go in this direction, oriented. They are the first parties to take a form of supranational organisation. The European People's Party and the European Socialist Party should enter into a sort of historic compromise of programme and action against emergencies that come not only from outside, but also from within Europe itself. Great responsibilities lie with the Italian Government, which has rightly chosen to give priority to the position of the High Representative of European international policy. That is a strategic point; it must be emphasized, bringing it out of the inconsistent and irrelevant role it has had so far, in the past years. Europe, if it wants to grow politically, has to rediscover the Bismarckian primacy of foreign policy. Europe cannot only take care of itself; it must take care of the world, be the protagonist of the search for a new world order, become a new nomos of the Earth: only the great European culture can aspire to fulfill this mandate. If that of the Cold War was, in its own way, a questionable world order, unfortunately this warm peace that followed, it produced a world disorder. After the end of the bipolar world, we have not passed, fortunately, to a unipolar world, as someone hoped and perhaps desired. We are in a multipolar world, which demands to be governed, but which is very difficult to govern. Here, again, politics, which is not only the use of force, that even when needed is necessary, but also skillful ability to maneuver. Europe has the greatest burden of the initiative in the face of pressure from the South of the world, but we need a larger united Europe. The still young President Obama should listen to the advice of the 93-year-old Kissinger who knows more about it than he does, and perhaps even more than we do. FACTORS (M5S). The new one that's advancing! TRONTI (PD). It was not by chance that he met our President Napolitano: two people who know Europe and the world well. Kissinger's advice is not to isolate Russia, not to make a mistake, not to start again with a cold guerrilla war on the eastern borders of Europe. Russia is Europe. Never before does the need for a great West-East alliance of Europe, and perhaps of the world, come back in the face of the real, unprecedented, violent and dramatic dangers that come from the South, but that - I repeat - also come from within Europe and the West. The same immigration emergency should be read and managed in this context. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I conclude with a suggestion: do not allow yourself to be overwhelmed by these daily bars, traditional for our country, recalling the famous comedy of Goldoni. You govern at best, with prudence and wisdom, but at the same time, with your collaborators, first and foremost with your good Foreign Minister, take your gaze away: you will be able to see even the nearest things. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u17	First of all, Mr President, like the last time he came to this House to talk to us about the same subject, the question we are asking ourselves is what are the senate's sessions like this, because if the goal is to come and tell us the same things he tells us at Porta a Porta, then I've already heard them at Porta e Porta' or maybe in some other talk show. If the goal is to come to the Senate and tell us exactly what you will do tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, then even today we have quite "topped." First of all, Mr President, we would like to deplore the decision to extend the sanctions to Russia on 1 July. Also in this case you washed your hands and left Italian companies to their fate, except then to be nice with Putin when he comes to Italy. Tomorrow, however, you will not discuss this, you will not talk about it; you obviously have more important issues than the problems facing our fellow citizens and our companies. Tomorrow you will certainly not talk about our Marò because, poor people, they are abandoned to their destiny and neither you, nor your Government, nor your colleagues in Europe remember two people who are still in the hands of Indian justice, which I feel I have understood to be more efficient than the Italian one. On the Greek question, Mr President, I would like to point out that here too we do not like to be mocked. We do not like to be teased about the role of Italy, because in May 2015 (Senator Centinario says not, but the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) Italy was classified among the five states with greater imbalances and risks the opening of an infringement procedure. So, if the penultimate of the ranking goes to morale at the last, maybe it's better to have a minimum of dignity and think about what you're not able to do at home, rather than go and look at what's going on at other people's homes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Since you have not said anything about Greece, I do not even know what to say more; on the other hand, Mr President, on the immigration issue you tell us that we are not always campaigning, that you do not want to talk about someone speculating on people's fears. I remind you that in certain regions the North League won the elections not because it speaks of immigration; in fact, if more than 50% of the Venetians voted for the North League instead of for his candidate (his candidate, I repeat) there will be a reason and it is not only for fear of immigration. You tell us that those who arrive in Italy must be welcomed and are perfectly right: those who arrive in Italy must be welcomed. There is, however, an abysmal difference between those who arrive in Italy and the fact that the Italian Navy goes to take illegal migrants (you call them as you wish, as you prefer) directly on the Libyan coasts. There's an abysmal difference. At a time when our Navy, our Coast Guard, the Navy of other states go to Libyan territorial waters to pick up migrants directly on the coasts, it means that we are taking them home: they are not people who arrive, they are people we pick up and there is a big difference. You tell us that those who have the right to welcome must be welcomed and also in this case you are perfectly right: that those who have the right to receive must be welcomed they all say so, the North League has always supported it, even though you had always said different things to us. That sounds weird. However, Mr President, we cannot allow months to pass before we identify people. In 2014 there were 170,000 arrivals, of which 64,000 requested protection and 21,000 received it. Compared to those 150,000 people who are wandering around undisturbed for Italy, we wonder thanks to those who are doing it and the answer is thanks to you and your Government. You continue to talk about returns for so-called illegals and you are absolutely right. The problem is that the governments supported by the party you are chairing, that is, the Democratic Party, the funds for return have virtually zeroed them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] So what's he gonna tell us? Go tell these things at Unity Day, not here! You tell us that today's young people see the birth of the wall in Hungary. He's right. The problem is that, at the same time, young Americans have seen the birth of the wall between Mexico and the United States brought up by your friend Obama and at the same time, and I tell my colleagues in the Democratic Party, in Padua, the young people have seen a wall pulled up by a mayor of the Democratic Party who wanted to divide the part of the city where there were the ugly, the dirty and the bad on the other side. You pull the walls up. Don't come and tell us stupid things. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Mr President, you did not mention the Europe Agreement. He did not tell us how the 40,000 people will be distributed, he did not tell us about the new EuNavFor Med initiative where we, Europe, will go to finance, with the figure of 11.8 billion euros in two months - I stress 11.8 billion in two months - an operation that is absolutely useless. The first phase will be to gather information on the hullists. Why, you still don't know where the boatmen come from and how they operate, after years that you're there to warm up the chair? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] The second phase involves the capture of the hullists. We know very well that the protocol you are going to sign provides for the second stage to assume a second political agreement. So we're going to spend 11.8 billion euros knowing that the boatmen can't touch them: money thrown away to show the Italians that you're doing something. President, you told us that, in the past, Italy had the role of the student questioned in Europe. It's true. But today she seems like that student who makes his parents think that everything is okay but then, as usual, when he returns to European school, he is sent home among the smiles of his comrades. Mr President, Italy is not your country of bulls: Renzi failed! [[The Senators of the LN-Aut Group display signs bearing the inscription: "Bocciato Pinocchio Renzi." Senator Centinario shows a toy ruppet.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u18	I invite the assistants to remove the signs and objects on display. Colleagues, I call you to order. I ask the Senators to follow the work of the House. He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u19	Mr President, you have come to this House to talk about immigration, but you have not addressed the fundamental issue: in your capacity as President of the Council, you should explain how it is possible that, thanks to your Government, immigration has become a business for the mafias of this country. You had to explain this! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, should have explained in this House how it is possible that the Prefect of Agrigento has entrusted, without invitation to tender, the management of the Centre for the identification and expulsion of Lampedusa for ten million euros, I repeat, without invitation to tender, to the Fraternity of Mercy in Florence. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you must explain this and explain how it is possible that the first thing that the Mercy of Florence did was to involve people close to Minister Alfano in the management of this centre. Give these answers because they require the opposition of this country and the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scavone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u21	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have listened to your speech, always passionate, which exudes optimism and a positive will which I hope will bring results in your experience as a government. Now, unfortunately, we are on the eve of a European Council in which some important choices will have to be made, such as the one concerning the next two and ten years of the Juncker plan. But I hope that a firm and lucid position can finally emerge from our country in relation to the enormous problem posed by immigration. That is not so just because you have defined it as a problem of a great television and media vision. And it is not huge either because there are often internal contradictions of parties. In particular, you wanted to mention the challenge your party is facing. It is rather a daily challenge that we southerners have learned to know as a plague on our skin. I remember it was Christmas Eve 2004 when I, at the time councilman for civil protection and health care of my city, Catania, welcomed the first large boat that arrived with an impressive load of 960 immigrants. Nobody was prepared. This boat arrived in failure, escorted by the patrol boats and dragged by the vessels of the Harbour office. And at the time as government institutions appeared unprepared, there was a huge response from the world of volunteering and the poorest portions of our great and industrialized city of Catania. Thanks to the inhabitants of the neighborhood of Librino we found for these people sheltered in the gyms of the schools and in some uninhabited stables. The citizens of that territory, as well as the volunteers of the city, began to feed the immigrants, but we were forced, for 10 days, to host these people without having clear indications from the government that was not then prepared. It was an early experience, which we have mentioned here and which we have allowed to draw to the attention of this House and of the political forces since our debut in Parliament. A tragedy was necessary, which you recalled, that of Lampedusa, so that we could see that there was a shameful situation. It was called a European shame, but the real shame was that of Europe. A Europe that certainly, compared to this issue, had been deliberately fugitive. A Europe that started in 1995 with a great boost of Euro-Mediterranean partnership, then flanked by the neighbourhood policies of 2004, but which, in the end, saw only some countries, like ours, pay a minimum of attention to the Mediterranean while the great countries, such as England and Germany, were concerned in those years of expansion to the East. I would also like to recall the intervention of 22 October 2013, that of 1 June 2014, as well as what you wanted to remember today, held by you on the eve of the European semester on 24 June last year in the Senate, when we spoke of the insufficient attention and inability that our country had until then in drawing Europe's attention to this issue. After other speeches in this House, the failure of Mare nostrum, the revival of Frontex plus, on 18 June, a few days ago, we Senators of the LAG Group have tabled a motion which will be taken up in the resolution that we will present in the margins of this debate, so that Italy can stand by forever. The numbers are clear: let's not underestimate them. 60,000 people in 2011 who become 170,000. You wanted to remember that 62,000 immigrants have arrived in Italy to date: and we are only on the eve of the summer. The most optimistic forecasts speak of 200,000 landings. And I want to remind you that 40% of these landings occur only in Sicily (where 38,000 immigrants have arrived), and little between Calabria and Puglia. We are talking about about about 160,000 landings, for which we can only be prepared. We come to the present, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. We would very much like to share your satisfaction and optimism about the important steps that will be taken by the European Council these days, the day before yesterday in Luxembourg and tomorrow afternoon. You have spoken of a temporary mechanism for the distribution of migrants in twenty-four months and we are talking about the forthcoming presentation of a legislative proposal introducing the system of compulsory relocation: I apologise for the scepticism, Mr President, but how can we imagine realising this relocation if France, until the day before yesterday, has made it clear that it does not intend to talk about quotas and relocation and has had to resort to a lexical disquisition not to talk about quotas and obligations? Do you realistically think that if you do not aim for a fair and compulsory distribution, there will be a fair, ready and sufficient response in the coming months to deal with what will arise against Europe? We have immediately contested the Dublin III regulation - and I am pleased that you have finally presented a back-up to it - with particular reference to Article 13, which we consider to be inadequate for the large numbers we have said. We fear another condition, namely that the longer the migrants stay in the first place, in this case Italy, the more the risk of consuming episodes of bad business and corruption is increased. We have also said that, as we know, these are people who 90% do not see Italy as a port country. For this reason, we should encourage in every way and address the sorting in the countries that they require as a final landing place: it is there, in the countries of final destination, that practices should be established for the granting or not of refugee status, not in Italy. On the other hand, Mr President, with this attitude we have helped a criminal organization that today is also fueled by new instruments: thanks to the refined investigations of the mobile team of Ragusa, four days ago, following the landing of 480 illegals, the interrogation of the four hullers has revealed that today there are the tags on Facebook to enlist these poor people. I do not know if Zuckerberg, father of Facebook, had thought of this type of aggregation, that is the aggregate of human beings encamped on a boat: however, the news is that, just like a modern TripAdvisor, especially towards the populations of Palestine and Syria (as has been documented), the invitation is made to reach a European country through Italy. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we believe that the time has come to call for the renegotiation of Article 13 of the Dublin III Regulation and to take any action so that the time of emigration from Italy can be drastically reduced. Instead, we have heard in these hours of CARA that become hubs or hotspots that are strengthened together with the services of solidarity and asylum of Europe, in short, all practices that aim to a management of we do not know how many hundreds of thousands of migrants, without that so far we have been able to demonstrate the efficiency of the organization. In conclusion, Mr President, in our resolution we strongly call on you to put to the Council tomorrow the issue of the obligation, the involvement of the UN and, together with this, policies that can strengthen the political stability of the Mediterranean border countries, starting from Libya. Along with this, we call for an immediate strengthening and investment of intelligence, so that, once and for all, the profiles of the management of these shameful immigrations can be clear. The suspension of Dublin III must also provide for the final destination countries to bear the burden of identification. We said that a year ago. We must demand that this country be put in a position to carry out an immediate humanitarian release, demanding from Europe a system of timely sorting with air carriers that bring these people to the country chosen as their last destination. In the alternative, in these hours there are many international ships that are participating in operations in the Mediterranean. Each ship beats the flag of its own State and is the territory of that State. Let these ships begin the first bureaucratic recognition practices. Mr President, for once you return by giving this country a chance of pride, so that for the first time you can assert your right reasons and do not let the only honor be what we have from the poor people, the one that gives the first, true, unique and concrete response on our territories to the poor desperate in the Mediterranean. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, MpA, NPSI, PpI, IdV, VGF, FV)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u22	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u23	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to begin by thanking you for your communications at the European Council. The Italian governments did not have the tradition of coming to Parliament before and after the European Councils. I introduced this practice in January 2012 for two reasons. We often heard ourselves say in Europe, particularly from the German Chancellor: Unfortunately, I cannot go any further in this negotiation when I come to you because my Parliament would not approve of my work. I made it clear to my German colleague that each of us had a Parliament, and with the consent of the Presidents of the Chambers, Schifani and Fini, and with the sharing of the secretaries of the parties of the majority, Mr Alfano, Mr Bersani and Mr Casini, I introduced this practice - always followed by President Letta and by you, Mr Renzi - with a double advantage, I believe: the deeper involvement of Parliament in the formulation of European policy and also a greater conditioning of the Government by Parliament, conditioning which the Government can assert in order to increase its negotiating strength at the European table; negotiating force which, as President Renzi recalled, depends also and above all on the solid or fragile condition of the country, its economy, its finances, the path of structural reforms, to which you rightly attach the highest priority. In this regard I also appreciate the ability of the President of the Council to mobilize the pride of Italians, which is necessary to correct the tendency, so widespread in our individual and above all collective psychology, to self-denigration. I therefore think that you yourself, Mr President, should avoid sometimes giving our country a representation that does not fully justice to it. You said that until yesterday Italy was sitting in Europe on the student desk, the defendants. Italy has certainly gone through a difficult financial crisis which, with the very broad support of Parliament, has been overcome and without any transfer of sovereignty, unlike Greece or Portugal, and it has not been since yesterday that we have no longer sat at the bench of the accused. As early as the spring of 2013, more than two years ago, the European Union seized Italy from the excessive deficit procedure, which continued to weigh and still weigh on all the other countries of southern Europe, including France. From a year earlier, Italy certainly did not have only the concern to save the skin, as she said with colorful expression. As you know, it was the Italian Government, with the strong support of this Parliament, that negotiated harshly until at the Eurozone summit in June 2012 that declaration on the banking union and the anti- spread shield without which - it is the common judgment - the ECB itself could not have made the statements and made the operational decisions of summer 2012. I close with a reflection on one of his recurring themes. Yesterday too, Mr President, you said on the occasion of a speech: no more bureaucracy, no more politics, no more Europe. I am, in a sense, entirely in agreement with and I am shocked that the most political body in Europe, the European Council - I do not know if things have changed now - devoted all its time to trying to resolve financial crises and had never had a real debate, for example, on the trends of nationalism and populism in Europe. But let me say: what policy do we want instead of bureaucracy? You know that many people in Europe are concerned that trends in national policies are causing serious and growing difficulties in European integration. These national policies are increasingly geared towards the short and very short term, even in the way political debate is held, usually with 140 characters or 10 seconds on television. All this greatly facilitates the populistic theses that have disarming simplicity, even in the supersimplification that does not lead to correct solutions. In short, fine if we want more politics in Europe, but we hope - and it is the tendency, I think, in all countries without exception - not policies so "shorter" and mixed in which the politician becomes more and more follower, follower, follower of the daily survey, rather than leader and supplier of an orientation. The same document of the four Presidents, which is a useful start on a further path, is affected by this short termism and precludes the text itself from making progress for Europe which is very urgent today. It speaks instead of the phase after 2017 because two important countries have in 2016 their general elections. In the past, the great politicians of Europe, like Chancellor Kohl, have lost the elections to build Europe. Today politics is essentially very different. I very much hope that you will continue your battles for our country and also for Europe as a whole with the effectiveness that you have shown and with ever greater success. [[Applause from the PD Group and from the government benches. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u24	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I have understood correctly, on the eve of this European Council, tomorrow morning there will be a meeting between the Italian Government and the representatives of the Regions and the mayors of major cities: to assert - the President of the Council said - a coherence of the Italian system. We can only appreciate this innovation precisely because about a month ago - and I am not saying this to be about the past (in fact, in the Senate Chamber we were all very cautious and chaste in the case) while you were in the United States of America, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, a body of the State, the Conference State Regions, which today is called Metropolitan Cities and more, met. In that body of the state, perhaps with properly ordained conjunctivivi, they said hateful things and approved an even more hateful statement. It was said, basically, that in the talk shows, with some vulgarity, someone repeats: it is useless not to drown them, here we no longer have room. Forty-eight hours later the hecatombe occurred, which made those words even more hateful. But the political and constitutional point for which we, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, can only express appreciation for your initiative tomorrow morning is that the national state in Europe, in the name of Europeanism, cannot and must not abdicate to itself. I share many of the passages from Mr Tronti's speech on the eclipse of the political season of the national states, but if I have to find the real limit of Italian Europeanism in recent years we, unlike other countries, have looked at Europe and Europeanism as a way to abdicate to the national state. That conference, that document was a bad example. So I listened carefully to Mr Tronti. I am certainly a liberal who has learned a lot from Luigi Einaudi's lesson, especially from his Europeanism in the aftermath of the First, not the Second World War. But when Einaudi said "via the prefects" in the name of federalism, he never convinced me. My liberalism is that of the Cross, not that of these easy patterns. If you legitimately, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, can be proud of the many lives generously saved in Sicily, it is also due to the glorious machine of the Ministry of the Interior that Luigi Einaudi thought to dismantle in the name of the localism of the autonomy. From this point of view, although too resurgent and too little sociological to be found in the expression "Italy system", there is no doubt that Italy should not go to the European Councils with the difficulties with which, on the side of regional selfishness and citizens, we went the other time. Among other things, if the Commission's proposal on the principle of redistribution were to pass on Friday, beyond quotas, it would be for us to free ourselves from the last question of the Dublin II Treaty, which has pushed us, blackmailed us and still affects many of our arguments. In addition, we, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have appreciated what you have said, especially when addressing the left-wing benches (but here we follow your other suggestion: that we do not hold back the past). On the subject of repatriation, on the left bank many years ago there was an exaggeration in criminalising those who wanted to affirm in the legislation as a crime that of illegal emigration. We must find a fair distinction between the right to asylum, which is true and serious, and the economic and social right to reception, which can be respected but does not belong to the categories of the rule of law. It is a distortion from an ethical state, not by chance made proper then against that law by an association of magistrates. Rightly today on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) an editorial in Ferrera invites us to be wary of European things from the abuses of technicalism (and in this regard Senator Tronti is right), but also from the abuses of moralism, many times the two together. For example, with regard to the alarms on a scabies epidemic, we appreciate those who keep their guard high, but we cannot appreciate that those who use alarmism to communicate what we might call "schacallism," perhaps towards those who carry out their duty to the end and with self-denial. Of course, there are also, as in all emergencies, episodes of real and serious "schacallism." It may be understandable that in Europe there are those who have more sensitivity to emigration from the East than in the Mediterranean, but with regard to Hungary and its eager proposal for a wall against Serbia, I believe that at the European Council Italy, more rightly with regard to Hungary, must have that feeling which you called aristotelian towards Greece, according to which: "Amicus Plato, sed magis amica veritas." We have to say it frankly: Hungary is a very respectable country, but its legislative and constitutional initiatives on human rights should give rise to the same vigilance on the part of the friends of the European People's Party as the Liberal International of Malagodi had against the Austrian party of Haider. In conclusion, as far as Greece is concerned, this should be at the end of the line. We say this with friendship: perhaps on its own internal front it has wasted too much time and too much energy, because the help that will be decided in these days is really effective, but there are no mental reservations on the part of Italy in joining a compromise on Greece, especially since in the background the appointment of the British referendum is looming in Europe. It is true that Scotland still wants to stay in Europe, but the appointment with the British affair, with the risk of a Brexit, is infinitely more important than these six months in which we have run - and I hope we have failed - the risk of a Grexit. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u26	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u27	Mr President, it is always difficult to speak after Matthew, who brings his demagogic delusions to the Chamber every time, but we will make an effort. Unfortunately, we are not at Porta a Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta a Porta a Porta di Porta a Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta di Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta a Porta [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I see that the President-in-Office of the Council is leaving the Chamber. If he leaves, he can't listen to us, but he doesn't do anything, because the citizens listen to us. Proceeding point by point, I will replicate some of these delusions. Only the President-in-Office of the Council sees signs of economic recovery: the poor mother who committed suicide two days ago, because she was evicted and left two children aged 10 and 11. So let us think about situations such as this and the two poor children who are left alone, while the President-in-Office of the Council is demagogic. Let's move on, because President Renzi has really made fun of Italians today. He spoke of reforms necessary for the country, but in reality the only reforms that he has carried out are the constitutional reform plaqued Licio Gelli and P2, so dear to many characters in here, who still represent this Masonic lodge, and the electoral reform, which instead protects the interests of a corrupt political class, who does not want to detach their presence from the armchairs and therefore removes democracy. Then there is the reform of public administration that transforms rights into favors, focusing power in the hands of the few and thus still guaranteeing this political class of votes that no one would give it if it were not forced. Today, finally, it will impose confidence on a school reform that kills critical thinking, the only thought that can still be useful to send you all home. In fact, the only reform that could restart the economy is that on citizenship income, which would serve to give dignity to this country and to those women and men who are committing suicide for your inability. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The President-in-Office of the Council has made a somewhat overwhelming speech and so we must be the ones to put some order into it. The condition of Greece is not something so distant from us: it is an economic, social, political and humanitarian disaster and we are not far from that disaster, because in reality the aid that is being given to Greece is not being given to the Greeks, but to the banks of Northern Europe that have a debt with these countries, and we have been so wretched that we have been participating in this incravation giving 40 million euros in 2014 to save the credit of Germany and France and so we have also been involved in this Greek crisis from which we cannot get out, so - I repeat - we are absolutely not far from Greece. What we want from Europe is that it saves us from the destiny towards which all the Mediterranean countries are going, to which no attention has been paid, precisely in order to protect the German interests, which instead have considered it appropriate to expand towards the East. We want a Europe with a federal public budget, a Europe that shares public debt and if that is not possible, the exit from the euro will be necessary not only for Greece, but also for us. In this regard, we have filed a request for an advisory referendum to ask the Italians what they think of this topic. Finally, we are calling for a European Parliament, democratic, incisive, of 28 free and democratic countries, and you are proposing to us - and the President of the Council has well protected himself, not talking about it - the report of the five Presidents. Why did you not comment on this document and tell us what the position of the Italian Government is with regard to this move that still takes away democracy? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I am going to read you a passage, since you have done nothing: it will be necessary to move from a system based on rules and guidelines for the development of national economic policies to a system for the further sharing of sovereignty within common institutions. There is also talk of a pay of workers based on the productivity of the company, which means paving the way for multinationals to make the laws of the country of origin applicable, going against the rights of workers, more than you have managed to do with the jobs act, which you want to extend institutionally at European level. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You must tell us what your position is in relation to this Plan. Again, there is talk of a euro area treasury minister who allows for more and more collective and shared budgetary decisions, that is to say, to give up sovereignty over this too. The government tells us what its position is on these issues, instead of telling us about Spallanzani and the scabies. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Mr Paglini (M5S). That's what we wanted to hear! FACTORS (M5S). As for immigration, the President said that he does not want to talk about the past and I can also understand that, because in the past there is his whole party involved in the exploitation of immigration, with so many new mafia organizations! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] There is a clear inability to make one's voice heard in the European Union, which at this point is not so united. There is a clear inability to organize itself, a political inability to prevent and talk rhetoric to which never results in correct, concrete and structured action. Our proposals have long been in your drawers, you have approved a motion in the House of Deputies, at the first signature of Mr Manlio Di Stefano, in which we asked for the Dublin III to be exceeded. We brought this proposal to the OSCE in July last year and it was voted almost unanimously, except by the League (which will then perhaps explain why it did not vote). We have deposited a bill that would shorten the time of stay in the CARA, which you like so much to lengthen because you lucrate on it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] To the president who takes state flights to go skiing, I would say go instead to see what happens in his country, because we went there. We went to see the reception centers and recently I have been to the center "Baobab" which collects Eritreans: the famous center of the dinner of Poletti, Casamonica and Buzzi, which still hosts immigrants (why maybe we should think about it). Well, in the center of Baobab, I found 700 Eritreans crammed where there would be only 200: very civilized people, much more than those who welcome them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] People forced to do their needs on the street, to eat only what brings them the solidarity of the Romans. One thing seems obvious, Mr President, that there is not: these Eritreans do not take boats without knowing where to go; they know very well where, because there is a mob association that picks them up and takes them to the centres where you lucrate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, it's useless to go and bomb the boats. It takes UN ground intervention against these characters: they are the ones who make this ruin of emigration and this commodity of human flesh. It takes humanitarian intervention against these subjects, and not against the boats, going to Libya where we always want to bomb to stick our noses in other people's affairs. We have not talked about the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Treaty (TTIP) or Russia and Ukraine: do we want to keep quiet about this too? TTIP is a very important agreement, the largest in the world. Perhaps we will not talk about this at the European Council; we will talk about it here in Parliament and we would like a commitment from the Government to ensure transparency with regard to an agreement that will change the lives of citizens irreversibly, as well as a special focus on the investor-state dispute resolution clause (ISDS) that will allow multinationals to sue Member States. The last point: Russia and Ukraine. Nobody wants a cold or hot war. We want Italy to be a mediator between these two parties and to take responsibility for reducing sanctions and the embargo on Russia, which is so damaging to our farmers. I shall conclude, Mr President. I've heard of the new world order several times in here. This is not a new world order, but an old world order that has a precise name: it is called fascism. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We say no to an Italian and European fascism: we want a Europe of democracy, freedom and honesty in which no one has to lag behind. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u28	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u29	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, President Renzi, in a speech which, frankly, seemed a little poor to us in terms of content (and I want to be courteous) he said that on the subject of immigration or election campaigning or a form of involvement should be chosen. I would like to remind the President-in-Office of the Council that on a previous occasion not far off - it was on 22 April and he was in this House - the Forza Italia Group presented a resolution on immigration issues with a view to the extraordinary summit which Italy had laudably requested and obtained on the subject of immigration. Part of our resolution was adopted by this House because there was convergence: we voted on the part of the majority's resolution and the opposite happened. This is because, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we placed ourselves on that occasion, unlike at other recent historical stages the oppositions of the time, in a constructive, responsible position, even if we knew that it could cost us some consensus: how many misunderstandings and how much controversy about cooperation or not, about reforms and the processes of change. After that, on 22 April we did what you wished: we achieved a moment of convergence, also to give more strength to the representative of our country, who - we may like it or not - was you at that stage and it is you today, at a very difficult European table, and therefore go as a country system to demand different, new, clearer rules to deal with the problem of immigration. Then it happened that we were basically neglected (someone might say slapped in the face) and the outcome of our action at the European and international tables was lacking in significant results. Subsequently, Mr Renzi, after 21 April, when there were moments of emergency, President Romani asked for the convening of the Conference of Leaders (which was held) to ask for an update of that debate, but it was absolutely not said. So the spirit of cooperation is either mutual or there is no one. Anyway, there's a chance today. Indeed, the Forza Italia Group has tabled a broad motion for a resolution, which will shortly be put to the vote, in which it makes an in-depth analysis on the issues of the European agenda, security, European finance and sanctions against Russia. They are not slogans, but very clear and concrete indications, because we always set ourselves as a political force that has a culture of government, although today we are convinced of the opposition of this Executive. Think then about the failures that have occurred. Today we have a very marginal weight. You led a battle to give Federica Mogherini the position of High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs, but we see that we are excluded (not only Italy but also the High Representative of the European Union) from the summits between Hollande and Merkel on the main European decisions. Italy is absolutely marginal at this stage: the Franco-German axis has been revised, the visits to Putin by Merkel and Hollande have been reviewed, the meetings also recent to deal with the Greek affair before the European Councils. Italy is absent, but even Mogherini is absent, who today does not represent Italy but is a European Commissioner with primary functions in international politics. You were recently in the United States and President Obama welcomed you with warmth, you enjoyed the Italian wine you rightly offered him as a gift, as is used for courtesy on these occasions; there were many photo opportunities, pats on the shoulders, we talked about the energy of Matthew. Then, on two issues that you addressed to Obama, you received waste: on Libya you had asked for the use of drones and the American attitude was negative, because you said that Libya is our business; on sanctions to Russia and on the timid attempts to call into question a wrong and suicidal policy got a denial. That mission, therefore, was a manifest failure. Does Gasparri di Forza Italia support him? Think a little, even Eugenio Scalfari, a "holy" of the left, wrote it in a commentary on that visit. We are therefore concerned about the marginal policy that Italy is doing in Europe and also about what is happening. On immigration yesterday two hearings were held by the Minister of the Interior Alfano and the Foreign Minister Gentiloni, who I diligently went to listen to: they described an unreal world, it seemed all prefect. Gentiloni told us about the UN, where perhaps it is at the foot of the skyscraper to play the intercom and nobody opens it. [[Laughter and applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Indeed, no one has listened to Italy in the UN. We know that there are risks to taking action in the Mediterranean and we need a UN resolution. On 22 April, the Senate approved the arrangements for a motion for a resolution tabled by Forza Italia which explicitly cited Articles 41 and 42 of the Charter of the United Nations: Article 41 deals with warnings to countries that are contrary to international law, Article 42 (which we included in the approved text) also hypothesizes - I say this word - a naval blockade when there is a violation of international legality. Today, instead, we read in the newspapers that the so-called Government of Tobruk threatens to bombard Italy or the countries that went to interfere with the activity of the scafisti. Wasn't it the Minister of the Interior of your Government who said we were going to sink the empty hulls? Perhaps he wanted to go underwater to Libya with his mask and mouthpiece? Isn't it better to go with an organization even of military type if you have to fight the activity of the hullers? What did the government say after that April 22nd? There have been Europe agreements and others are under discussion; there have been other agreements on 22 June and you will discuss them tomorrow. However, Mr Renzi, if the European agreements serve to fuel a Community escafism, let them alone because while yesterday the ministers Alfano and Gentiloni came to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it was easy to remind them that, not a hundred years ago but the day before yesterday, German ships have unloaded 600 illegals in Salerno and the same day British ships have unloaded illegals in Taranto. One of these ships had on board a few days ago also the British Minister of Defence, who was casually on board and accompanied the illegals to Italy. I would like to see what would happen to our Government if Minister Pinotti went with an Italian ship full of illegals on the cliffs of Dover: probably the Cameron government and the British would take it by cannonball. [[Applause from the Forza Italia-PdL XVII Group]] We do not want wars, but we cannot allow European solidarity to be transformed into an external competition in escafism because German or British ships take and transport migrants who are largely also illegal (the Minister of the Interior admitted it yesterday), some are refugees who should be rescued from the whole international community and many are desperate who go back to the planet in search of luck. Well, what are European countries doing? They bring more illegals to Italy. Why don't they take them to Malta, Greece, Slovenia, France or Spain? They take them to Italy because your policy is wrong, it is a policy of surrender that transforms our country into a landing place of all desperation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We saw him. Other than humanitarian attitudes: we are the most humanitarian of all but humanitarian policy is not what we saw at the stations in Milan or at Tiburtina station in Rome with a degradation and a situation that mortifies first those who arrive in these conditions. We must change the register: Europe should take on a share of the refugees to whom relief must be given, on the basis of a principle laid down not only by our Constitution, but by international law. It is discussed whether the refugees are 24,000, 40,000, to be divided, not to be divided, who wants them, who does not want them. Hollande, meanwhile, closes the border. You have made big hugs with Hollande but the French President reacts by closing the border because in Italy we land too many people, so the problem is the policy that is being done at the Italian level and that Europe feeds. A little more dignity and firmness are needed! We completely reject the policy we have done so far. We've been helping out, we've had cross-votes of resolutions. In return we have been denied an update of that debate and we are witnessing a total failure on the international side. That's not gonna work. We cannot allow the ships of various countries to discharge to our coasts, to the port of Taranto or Salerno, other desperate ones with burdens that are at the expense of Italy that should begin to seriously evaluate to reduce the payments to the European Union of a quota correspondent to the greater costs of an immigration that falls on our coasts and our ports. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, statesmen are seen in times of crisis and difficulty. The Berlusconi governments succeeded, with hostile interlocutors like Gaddafi in Libya, in establishing agreements. It will be said that Gaddafi was a blind dictator. Now go and deal with the caliphate in Sirte or the shaky governments in Libya. Our policy, our ability to negotiate and even to try to prevent wars that the international left, and even Italian, saw as salvific. Then we saw the outcome of the war in Libya. So the policy made in recent years has been wrong and if statesmen are seen in the crises, this applies both to the Libyan affair and to the Russian affair. Our motion for a resolution calls for these sanctions to be reviewed. The policy of the Berlusconi governments was to attract Russia to the West. These were the agreements of Sea Practice between NATO and the Russian Federal Republic: to open up to this new reality, with all the problems that this country has, with the difficult evolution towards a democratic landing place and towards the West. Today, however, there are sanctions that damage our economy, countries that take the place of our farmers or fashion. It is a wrong policy, because Russia can help us in a policy of containment of fundamentalism. The right policy was that of Sea Practice and certainly not that of today, which frankly we cannot appreciate. I would also like to remind you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that it would be better if your Government were to take care of our Maroons than to hire Sofri as a consultant to the Ministry of Justice. We'll give you a diary board. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] As for the rest, our disappointment is strong. Our spirit of cooperation has been there, our sense of responsibility continues, but on immigration there is a total failure of its policies because of an irrelevance that those who are not statesmen cannot deny. You also show uncertainty on other issues. Was it you or was it someone else on television who announced the school conference in July? Afterwards, the conference announced at Porta a Porta is replaced by confidence in June. Be a little more serious, because the country can't take it anymore. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u30	Senator Napolitano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u31	Mr President, before I briefly touch on two of the topics chosen by the President-in-Office for his presentation, I would first of all like to refer to the climate that we are experiencing in Italy at the European Council. It can be understood that the President-in-Office of the Council is particularly sensitive to this fact, which I would like to confirm. Those who have had the opportunity, even recently, to exchange views with significant representatives of European political circles, and not only Europeans, have indeed been able to see how a climate of appreciation and confident expectation towards Italy is widespread. Of confident expectation of continuity in the reformative action undertaken by the Government and supported by Parliament. This premise seems to me right to give a basis of objective attention to what the President-in-Office of the Council has said. The first of the two issues I shall touch on concerns the complex and very hard issue of migration. Senator Gasparri has now dealt with it, with which we have had, in years far enough, comparisons that I hope he remembers as not negative, on this subject. In fact, the Italian Parliament passed a law on immigration, the first organic law on immigration, in February 1998. It was a law that was based on a double pillar: that of opening, according to rules and quotas, to legal immigration. Quotas commensurate with the trend and needs of the labour market (and, therefore, with the possibility of effective reception of migrants seeking work in Italy) and with the clearest determination in the fight against illegal immigration through rules of refusal and return agreements. There were, precisely, the famous readmission agreements (which we call famous, because they had a considerable role and a certain publicity) concluded with many countries of origin of that migratory flow. These agreements allowed, for example, in the summer of 1998, the repatriation of some thousands of illegal immigrants who had landed, of course still in Sicily from Tunisia. The picture has completely changed, for example in this respect. In fact, in order to make valid readmission agreements, we need interlocutors, and there are failed states that are no longer able to represent valid partners. However, there are many aspects to which an immigration policy must also be updated. At this moment, what I feel, however, is a non-positive legacy of the past decades, is that Parliament did not approve, in the years 1998-2001, or subsequently, a law for asylum, which was also clearly presented in 1997 by the Government itself. We have, in essence, gradually transposed, in a more or less satisfactory way, European directives in this area, but we have never drawn up asylum legislation, which is also a regulation imposed by international conventions and by the legal commitments of the European Union. Moreover, because we all have a good sense of the proportions and meaning of our responsibilities, even in our relationship with countries whose attitudes we criticize today, I would like to remind you here that until the end of the last century, in Italy people who came to ask for asylum almost there were none. People arrived who, until the Dublin agreements were taken, continued from Italy to other countries, where the conditions for applicants and then for refugees, if the applications were accepted, were considerably better. There was then talk of a phenomenon of asylum shopping: those who arrive in search of asylum choose among the various countries that offer the most. In conclusion, however, even to say the things as they are, when we speak of Germany, remember that in the 1990s, when there was a massive wave of influx of refugees from the former Yugoslavia, during the period when there were wars without neighborhoods, Germany received about 100,000 refugees a year: this is a figure from which I honestly do not think we can ignore, when we talk about burden sharing or burden sharing; then, in fact, we did not spend on any burden sharing, because it would have to do it maybe Germany, and it did not. In any case, I share the lines of the President-in-Office's speech on this burning issue and the human and ideal role he has placed in dealing with it. Secondly, I should like to say a few words on the subject of the completion of Economic and Monetary Union: the prospects for the long-term, consolidated and sustainable recovery of the economy in our countries, with the main objective of responding to the increasingly complex and acute problem of unemployment - especially youth unemployment and, in an even more special way, youth unemployment and not the Mezzogiorno - are undoubtedly linked to the one indicated in more general terms of the completion of Economic and Monetary Union. We will discuss the document prepared by the Presidents - who I do not know if they have now become five, once there were four - but which would undoubtedly require substantial reinforcements and even clear and non-subordinated choices, as Mr Monti said, to electoral calculations with now predetermined maturity. Suffice it to mention the question of the fiscal capacity to be allocated to the European Union, which must be done through a budget based on the Union's own resources. We must and we can do this: Italy has made a contribution which has been widely recognised as valid and courageous with its document in preparation for what was then to be drawn up and defined by the Presidents responsible for this with a view to the next Council meeting. However, I would say two other things: the first is that, in addition to strengthening this document, we must really make some essential choices, which can be translated into terms understandable to citizens, as they respond to strongly felt needs, which are more authentic, solidarity and effective economic, monetary, social and political union. As you know, for many years now we have become accustomed to documents of the European Authorities - particularly the Council - written in esoteric language, in a code for initiates that absolutely cannot speak, I say not to the generality of the citizens, but sometimes not to those politically more engaged. They must be operational choices, capable of producing the answers I said and charged with a new force of cultural and ideal conviction, as the President-in-Office himself said. What is there to highlight? If the logic is to be that of a thorough deepening of integration in all areas, including political areas, within the Eurozone, this must be very clear. I will not refocus the whole arsenal of definitions that have been given over the decades to define a "more flexible" perspective for the development of the European Union: "differentiated integration," "for concentric circles," "multi-speed", "broader Europe" and more advanced Europe, "confederacy" and "federacy." In concrete terms, we have a reality called the Eurozone, which is the most advanced, highest form of enhanced cooperation. The Institute then provided for in the Treaties, but before it was foreseen by them, already translated into reality by the Agreement on the single currency, the common monetary policy and the eurozone, then the system of central banks and the European Central Bank. A genuine, enhanced cooperation before Litteram, which must become to the full the axis for integration in which only a part of the Member States can be recognized. And as has been said in one of the many appeals that are circulating these days, signed by people of strong conviction and European experience, all this is compatible with the aspiration of other Member States not to increase, and even to reduce, their degree of involvement in integration. However, if this right is to be recognised for those who remain outside the eurozone, they cannot be given veto powers over decisions that are the responsibility of the eurozone Member States to deepen integration in that well-defined area. This is also a point which concerns the solution of the Greek problem. The Greek problem, which in these days has been very well prepared and very acute commentators, has been very determined, stressing the absolute need to reach an agreement guaranteeing Greece's permanence in the euro. Finally, we need a careful consideration of the issues raised by Britain, not forgetting - let me say this pedantry, which is not really such - that the famous speech by Zurich with which Winston Churchill, in 1946, launched the password of the United States of Europe, stressing its urgency, contained a brief but decisive clarification. In fact, after launching that great idea, he said that Britain, the Commonwealth, the powerful America, and - "I trust," he added - Russia, would also be friends and sponsors of the United States of Europe, to which Churchill wished success but placing outside. So, in essence, with an uncommon consistency with that point of departure, we understand today what kind of issues the British Government raises and what the type of response - I add - can be: a response respectful of this diversity, aware of the historical role that Britain can play in the relationship with the European Union, but also determined not to undergo conditioning and vetoes. We need to give the citizens certainty. One certainty is that the euro and the eurozone are solid realities, that they will be safeguarded and consolidated, and to whose development and strengthening those who believe in Europe see no alternative, in such a radically changed world. The certainty, therefore, of the ever deeper European integration which they will continue to pursue strongly. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD, AP (NCD-UDC), GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV), Misto-SEL and Misto-ILC. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u32	She is registered to speak Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I will not spend much of your time. However, I wanted to speak not only on my behalf, but also to represent the work that the Senate's Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been doing since 5 May this year. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, referred to the need for the entire country system to embody Italy's position, and you certainly did not refer solely to a profile of democratic legitimacy in the definition of that position, but perhaps you referred more specifically to the political question, which also defines the strength of a country in consultation and confrontation within the European Union when the issues represented are the daughters of a debate, an awareness and also of the definition of a common point of view. You have rightly called for the secularity of this common position by forgetting clashes that may have punctuated the recent debate as well. On the other hand, we have seen very important elections being held for our country and this, in some way, justified an excess of polemic tones. But for the very reason that you have declined here this morning, since 5 May this year, the Senate Committee on Constitutional Affairs has begun to work on a cognitive survey of immigration. He has also addressed the issue of the European agenda and, as you know, he is also dealing - as you know - with the legislative decree on the right of asylum. What is the political sense of this operation? That of trying to settle within Parliament a common point of view which is capable of freeing itself from the time of dismay, fear and resentment, as Mr Tronti said, of uncertainty in order to settle, on the basis of real knowledge of the phenomenon, a unitary attitude. In doing so, we have to ask the Italian Government for some safe arrivals: I use an expression that when we discuss immigration is always present. The perception of our entire Commission is that the immigration issue at national level is still too frequently resolved and addressed with the emergency measure, which is not a good measure (as you said just now). It is not especially because we risk - there have been hints in the interventions of colleagues of the 5 Star Movement - to rekindle those fears, fears and grudges when, for example, we address the issue of contractualism that is being used to face the first reception of migrants and we realize that every time we start again. All this can give rise to and has given rise to serious phenomena of illegality and we believe that it is time for a standardisation of contracts and costs, in such a way that nowhere in Italy can more take place than on immigration ripen illegality and criminal connivances. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We also need to give a safe side to those municipalities that face the greatest effort of landings, for example, solving an issue that may seem very connected to everyday life, but which instead gives a sense of how the State addresses the issue of immigration. Let me give you an example: there are municipalities that pay doctors and paramedics of the public service for the first triage to immigrants who land and there are municipalities that do not pay them. I wonder how it is possible to deal with this issue with this unequal treatment which obviously also makes sense of the fact that some parts of the territory are more serious than others. This is done by serving what you have said about the generosity, dedication, self-denial and sincere spirit of welcome with which these immigrants are welcomed on our territory. I do not take examples of not weighing this up, but colleagues will find in the Commission's acts, which are shorthand, a whole range of issues that could be addressed. Another issue, to which Senator Compagna referred, should also be addressed, but in the sense absolutely opposed to that indicated by his colleague. We ask you to finally issue the legislative decree abolishing in the decriminalization of the offence of irregular entry of the foreigner into the national territory. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In this way we would avoid writing only this year 60,000 proceedings and we would avoid, above all, that the investigations were burdened by the fact that, in order to question those who land and who were victims of that transport under those conditions, we must treat them as co-defendants and, therefore, we cannot assume them as witnesses, with obvious inconveniences also for the continuation and authenticity of the investigations. But, as I said before, working on all this, that is, working on a regular, ordinary and non-emergency system also means having the ability to attenuate a burden on this country. And, contrary to what is often said in the newspapers, the greater weight of immigration weighs on the Mezzogiorno of Italy, not on the North of Italy: it weighs on regions that are already in difficulty and - let's say so - on the most fragile populations precisely for geourban reasons. What does that mean? Putting a limit on the reception? Absolutely not! It means supporting those municipalities and those populations in their most praiseworthy work of generous, modern welcome. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Otherwise we risk further fragmentation and fragmentation, of course, there is no need. The situation we are most concerned about is that which you have already mentioned, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: immigrants clinging to the cliffs of Ventimiglia and the wall that threatens to erect between Hungary and Serbia are of grave concern. For once I would like us to consider Europe as our own business, not just ours, and defined by how we can define ourselves. For this reason, I think that the position that your Government, the Government that you are chairing, is preparing to support in Europe must be based on the appreciation of the European agenda, of this set-up that each of us can recognize the previous struggle; each of us knows what the effort has been to write a word rather than another and none of us can deny that for the first time Europe is addressing the issue not only in terms of emergency but also with medium-, long-term policies and with the identification of the four pillars that I do not remember here but which constitute the backbone of the agenda. As every study confirms (fear is not exorcised: one must measure with reality) we are not faced with an emerging phenomenon, but a structural phenomenon that we now have the need to govern with every instrument and, in particular, with that of the force of political Europe that faces politically (I greatly appreciated Senator Tronti's intervention) on the grounds of development cooperation, agreements, the prevention of crisis situations: it is in fact a phenomenon that has precisely, structural nature. What I have said about the emergency measured on national policies, we can also turn it over to the attitude that we must adopt in the construction of European policies and add, with respect to the reference that President Napolitano made about Germany's reception capacity in the 1990s, that today Greece, Greece itself we are talking about on other issues, welcomes a million displaced persons. A million! I would like us to reflect on this and come to the conclusion that outside of a European political capacity, outside of a Europe that is itself (because it deals with the world, as Senator Tronti said) we have no alternative, we have no possibility. I conclude with a very personal notation. I have been to the Greek theatre in Syracuse these days and I have attended the performance of "The supplications" by Eschilo. This is a tragedy on asylum seekers, asylum seekers, asylum seekers for a host people. In 465 before Christ, Eschilo maintained the thesis that asylants should be accepted, not only because they are dear to Zeus, but because there exists an unwritten norm, an ius gentium, an unwritten international law which this prescribes. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bianconi, Buemi, Mazzoni and Ruvolo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u34	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I communicate that motions for resolutions No 1, No 2, No 2, No 3 by Senator Centinaio and other senators, No 4 by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, No 5 by Senator Scavone and other Senators, No 6 by Senator Fattori and other Senators, No 7 by Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators, and No 8 by Senator Bonfrisco and other Senators, whose texts are distributed. I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u35	Mr President, I rise to express my opinion on the motions for resolutions. On motion for a resolution No 1, signed by Senator Calderoli, the opinion is in favour if reworded as follows: Firstly, the reference is not to the Council of Europe, as it is written in the text of the resolution, but to the European Council: we are not going to Strasbourg, to the Council of Europe, but to Brussels, to the European Council. Therefore, the words 'in view of the Council of Europe' should be replaced by the words 'in view of the European Council'. I also propose that the mechanism should be specified as follows: It commits the Government to continue, among other actions, in the defence of the external borders of the country and of the European Union. If Senator Calderoli accepts the rewording, the opinion is positive, on the text thus reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u36	Senator Calderoli, do you accept the reformulation? Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I accept the rewording, Mr President. Mr Gozi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. On motion for a resolution No 2, first signed by Senator De Petris, I am opposed to the premises and commitments, except for the last two paragraphs. Therefore, on these last two commitments, relating respectively to the Digital Agenda and to relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom, the Government's opinion is favourable. On motion for a resolution No 3, first signed by Senator Centinario, I am opposed to the premises and the favourable opinion on the first and second commitments, an opinion contrary to the third paragraph of the operative part, which begins with the words 'promoting at European level', and contrary to the fourth commitment, which begins with the words 'initiating legislative measures'. I am in favour of resolution No 4 tabled by Senators Zanda Schifani and Zeller. On motion for a resolution No 5, first signed by Senator Scavone, the opinion is opposed to the premises. As far as commitments are concerned, I am against the first, in favour of the second and the third, against the fourth and fifth, in favour of the sixth, against the seventh and in favour of the eighth. On motion for a resolution No 6, at the first signature of Senator Fattori, I am against the premises and in favour of certain commitments. The opinion supports the first commitment, which begins with the words "to be active in every European forum" in relation to the European Agenda on Migration, to the second, to the third and to the fourth. I am against the fifth and sixth commitments. With regard to the seventh commitment, I propose a rewording, if accepted, replacing the words "to be the promoter of a progressive reduction" with the words "to be the promoter of a review" (see below). Finally, I am opposed to the eighth commitment. On Resolution No 7, the opinion is contrary to the premises and supports the first, second and third commitments, an opinion contrary to the fourth and in favour of the fifth and sixth commitments. I propose to reformulate the seventh commitment, concerning Russia, which begins with the words "to work for a deep reflection on the damage caused to Italy" in this way: "to work for a deep reflection on the sanctions to the Russian Federation and for a review of the sanctioning system." The opinion was in favour of the reformulated commitment. I give a favourable opinion on the remaining commitments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Romani Paolo, do you accept the proposed reformulation? ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). I welcome you, Mr President. Mr Gozi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. On the motion for a resolution No 8, I am against the premises. As far as commitments are concerned, I am against the first, the second and the third, the fourth and the fifth, which calls on the Government to report to Parliament on the conclusions of the European Council meetings, partly because the Government has always done so and will therefore continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u39	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask the Undersecretary whether he can better specify the Government's opinion on the first-signed motion for a resolution by Senator Centinario, because the sequence of views for and against has not been understood.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u40	The Government is in favour of the first and second commitments and opposed to the third and fourth commitments, which call on the Government to implement the legislative measures necessary to speed up the examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u41	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u44	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to declare my vote on the motions for resolutions, which, of course, is aimed in particular at supporting the proposal tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani and other Senators. Allow me, however, to make a few brief comments on the speech I heard this morning by the President-in-Office of the Council. The President of the Council used the term "national liability." I believe that this is the right dimension with which Italy must go to the European Council. I speak of the right size because problems come from afar, as, in many cases, solutions come from afar. I would like to give two examples in this respect, the first of a problem that comes the far and the second of solutions that come from afar. The first problem is that we have made a great mistake by signing up to the Treaty of Dublin and by realizing only late the mistake that we have made in not calling for joint responsibility for the European borders there. We have made a mistake, which also comes from afar, as President Napolitano reminded us this morning, in not having prepared a regulation on asylum voted by the Italian Parliament. But we have also long prepared solutions and I would like to give an example to President Renzi of the solutions that come from afar, because if Italy is no longer on the bench of the accused in many European Councils, this is certainly due to the efforts of the Renzi Government, but equally certainly these efforts are in continuity with what our Parliament, the political forces and the governments that in some way anticipated Renzi's effort. I want to make an act of truth: I see, for example, in many circumstances, in the public debate, almost vile that Monti Government that has been supported not only by PD, but also by Forza Italia for many parts of its journey. Well, I am available to any critical or self-critical argument that might be introduced. But I ask myself, and I ask you, colleagues: are you really convinced in conscience that, if the Monti Government had not administered those bitter medicines to the Italians, and the Italians, with great sacrifice, had not followed those painful recipes, would we be out of the storm today? I, in extreme conscience - I want to tell you - have many doubts that this would have happened. Mistakes come from afar as well as solutions, and that is why we must go to Brussels at European Councils with a spirit of national sharing and co-responsibility. I would like to make three points. The first is on the document of the five Presidents. Let me be clear: I do not like the statements in this document because they are generic. They are general about democratic control, about the legitimacy of economic and monetary union; they are general in the proposals without any real strengthening of the role of the European Parliament and the national parliaments. With regard to bureaucracy, ladies and gentlemen, the five Presidents' document proposes the creation of a technical and advisory committee for public finances and independent national technocratic authorities for competitiveness. But excuse me: we are talking about excessive bureaucracy and, in front of bodies already in existence and able to carry out control, we are talking about others. [[Applause from Senator Romani Paolo]] and we think that, with generality and with other bureaucracy, we can solve the sense of distance between public opinion and Europe. Let's be clear. This has been said by more authoritative voices than mine that Europe lacks planning. On the other hand, there is demagogy, which today is not only about those who dispute the arrival of the illegals, but also about those rulers who think they follow demagogy without taking into account, among other things, that, between the copy and the original, voters will always choose the original. So this demagogy - on the one hand - allows populist and anti-European parties to win the elections, but, on the other hand, it also influences the attitude of the so-called responsible governments. Not having the courage to oppose the rising tide - and this also happens in our country - we do not, in fact, have the courage to resume the recipe of truth speaking honestly to public opinion. And I would like to say a few things about Greece, for example. My friends, ladies and gentlemen, we are still talking about Greece after three to four years, when Greece accounts for 2% of European GDP. Have we not seen the mistakes of the United States of America and then the ability to recover economically from Obama's American policy? Let us keep them in mind and take lessons from these mistakes. The exit of Greece from Europe today will have two concrete effects: to trace the spreads and create a situation of hiccup in the economic recovery that, in some way, allows us to get out of the recession. After four years we are still talking about Greece, with Schäuble who looks like the bad guy and Merkel who, timidly, tries to take responsibility for European co-responsibility. What is missing - it was first mentioned by Monti and I agree with him - is the spirit of Kohl. The design of the great Fathers of Europe, not only Spinelli or De Gasperi or Schuman, but also that of those who, in the aftermath of 1989, Mitterand and Kohl, managed to create a political condition of expectations and solutions on European issues. Today, Mr President, we as Italy must not only play the game of reparation by trying to limit the damage, which is understandable in certain circumstances. But you, if you want to be an expression of a new generation, and not only from the point of view of history but also of renewed political sensitivity, must make a commitment before us and before Europe to launch a high project on Europe, which comes out of the pettyness that we are following a little 'everyone in the European Councils suspended between bureaucracy, referrals and genericity. And I said earlier, while you were absent from the Chamber, that the document of the five Presidents is to be taken and put in the basket. That is the reality. But since there is something positive in all things, there will also be in the five document, although it lacks the depth and ideal momentum that Europe needs. Immigration requires a truthful operation. We are prey to a collective hysteria - then the President reports to us the data and we see that they are of little greater than those of the past year - which is, however, motivated by what Senator Finocchiaro said before: there is collective hysteria, even if the immigrants are in relatively plausible number, because we find them at the stations of Milan and Rome, because there is a disorder in the reception due to farraginous procedures, to modalities that do not work, to a particular crime, introduced following the demagogy, that aggravate the Italian judicial system, do not resolve the problems and force us to have eternal times for expulsions. It is therefore a question of reconstructing a serious regulatory fabric, without any new crime. Let's eliminate the crime cases instead of multiplying them on everything. I should like to make a few comments on this. Even on corruption, every time a corruptive problem occurs, we place another crime, but that is not how we fight that phenomenon. Then, as you rightly said, redistribution and repatriation must be our slogan. I would like to end by addressing Senator Gasparri, dear friend of many political battles that have seen us united and opposed. You referred to Gaddafi and Berlusconi. Since, at other times, I have given notice here to the former President of the Council that I may have seen the mistakes before the courts, but now let us not stop there. A geopolitical revolution is taking place. They're skipping their statues. In many areas of Africa and Asia there are no longer the borders drawn after World War I. So, the point is not only that we no longer have Gaddafi opening and closing the taps of illegal immigration, but it is the reconstruction of a geopolitical balance that we must bear in mind and on which Europe is guilty of being absent. And we must take charge of it because today, with energy self-sufficiency, the Americans no longer have the Mediterranean as an emerging priority. We are, therefore, called upon to assume our responsibilities and must do so bearing in mind that, in order to speak to others, we must be credible. With what credibility does President Renzi go to the European Council, rejecting the North States to play a game of reparation on immigration, when in the national territory the North Regions play exactly the same game against the South Regions? These contradictions are the Italian disease that others know very well and that we can no longer afford. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PDe of Senators Buemi and Stefano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u47	BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, let me begin by saying this: "The air is almost irrespirable now, why don't you answer me? You know that what I breathe is your answers and now I suffocate. These are your words, President Renzi, drawn from that beautiful poem that you gave us on the occasion of your previous communications of 22 April last. And today, two months later - 24 June - Italians are choking. If you would like to say, as the highest exponents of your government do, that the arrivals are no greater than last year's, please say so. But we begin to think that at the end of 2015 - that's the way it is - we will total at least another 170,000, for a total of 340,000 people in the two-year period, or eight times more than 42,000 in 2014. In the end, these are the true, real figures which very soon will not make us very far from the fact that he mentioned earlier Mr Finocchiaro, about that million refugees, desperate people that Greece is forced to host. It is clear that the phenomenon has completely escaped from hand and that, in this situation, no one can really say how many migrants are illegally found today on the Italian territory and how big the iceberg, whose tip we have seen emerge in recent days in the railway stations of the big cities and on the Italian-French border. It may be true that Italy is a land of passage but it is equally true that, Schengen or not Schengen, the borders of the countries bordering us are becoming increasingly less porous every day and, therefore, getting out will be increasingly difficult. We must also take into account the fact that some European countries are beginning to give back to us migrants found without a residence permit. From France alone, Mr President, we have seen more than 20,000 returned this year. More than that hundred on the cliffs of Ventimiglia! [[Senator Centinario's comments.]] Twenty thousand citizens of other countries, by virtue of that goddamn Dublin regulation, seems to be our business, when it should not be. Italy has thus become the Lampedusa of Europe, where we continue to enter, but from which very few will be able to get out, while our capacity to welcome has now been largely exceeded. And I think that's clear to everyone. We cannot deceive the Italians. You can't fool the Italians. We can't do it anymore, Mr. President. Our country is no longer able to move forward. Our government is not an ONLUS. It is not an ONLUS the Government of the Italian Republic which, in this country, has the responsibility of order and security, a fundamental principle as much as solidarity. The Government's task is to ensure the safety of our citizens and the efficient functioning of the health and welfare structures that are dedicated to them, first of all, because they are the result of their taxes, of so many years of work and of so much money that the Italians have paid to guarantee our welfare system. If we look at the budget figures of the Ministry of the Interior, Mr President, we find a figure which I consider to be very worrying: over the last four years - and therefore not only during your Government, Mr President - there is a vertical fall in appropriations for the various activities necessary for expulsions. Let's start calling them by their real name. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]] In 2011, a total of some 112 million were spent, compared with some 178 million devoted to the various forms of reception: that is the balance between solidarity, acceptance and humanity to which you referred a few months ago, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but which we cannot put in the background, in second order, of the duty we have to guarantee our citizens everything that is our task. Why, then, last year's repatriation and expulsion expenses amounted to 26 million? It was 178 million four years before and, therefore, they were less than a fifth of those supported in 2011; for the reception, instead - please photograph this data - they have risen to 574 million euros, half a billion euros only for the reception.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u48	Senator Bonfrisco, please come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u49	BONFRISCO (CRI). In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to remind you that if, before, in the poem you recited to us that day, it was someone else who suffocated, today they risk suffocating the Italians. And I beg you to have the respect due to the fear of Italians and their uncertainties. We must give answers not only to exorcise fears - which is also very important - but also to ensure that those citizens remain citizens and do not become "B series," just because someone else arrives in our country, emergency in emergency, now in a structural way. Do something, Mr. President. Tell your colleague Hollande, eating a baguette, that the problem is common. The problem is for everyone. We have joined this European Union and we contribute with a lot of money, with the money of the Italians. Let us always remember that, even in the case of Greece, which is right to save and with which it is right to be supportive, it has cost the Italians to do those maneuvers to contain public spending, often very painful. It cost Italians to pay 60 billion euros, only to date, to the fund saves States! Do not tell us that, in order to end saving Greece, we will have to pay more money and other taxes of the Italians, because we will certainly not agree. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u52	Before giving the floor to Senator Centinario, however, I call everyone to respect the times, because we will have to end our sitting at 1 p.m. with the votes. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, since I did not respect the timing of my speech earlier, I will now be even faster. As my colleagues spoke, unfortunately, a press note came directly from where you are going tomorrow, saying: "Migrants: EU sources. The Commission quota system will not go through at the summit. What are we talking about then? At a time when, from the sources of the EU, and not from the sources of La Padania or via Bellerio, such a statement arrives, the commitment, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which we are asking you at the moment, is to ensure at least that what we have talked about so far is respected and that, theoretically, you have agreed. If the quota system does not pass, if it does not pass the quota of 40,000 people, then don't even go to the Council or, at least, show that Italy has the attributes. Being mocked in this way is quite shameful for Italians. Either we are making fun of Parliament - and this has already been known - or, if not, if Europe is mocking Italy, it is even worse. Do something, President Renzi, since you've made us realize that you're determined. Mr President, it is true that it is not usually necessary to address colleagues but to the Presidency. However, I remind my colleague Casini that the word populism, and the usual theater that we are talking about, are now the usual talk show statements. Here too, I would like to take up what the President-in-Office of the Council has said. I'm asking if it's populist to ask for the repatriation of the illegals. I think that, at a time when a person enters the national territory irregularly, without a residence permit and without a right to it, it is by balanced people to ask for their repatriation as quickly as possible, and I do not think that this is populist. Is it from populists to ask to speed up the time for questions and to provide, therefore, assistance to those who really need it? I don't think it's populist. I think, instead, that those who are ruling the country at the moment must accept the proposal of the League and subscribe to it, as I seem to have understood it has been done. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I think it's the most normal thing and it's not for populists. Is it to populists to ask to fight the scafisti? If it is to populists to ask to fight the scafisti, yes, I am populist, but I think it is populist a lot of Italians, including many colleagues of majority. The President of the Council will go to Europe to agree that the hullers must be fought. The moment the League asks, I don't think that demand is populist. If it is the President-in-Office of the Council who is asking for it in Europe, I do not think this is a balanced proposal. In fact, either we're both balanced or we're both populists. We don't play with words. Is it a populist, Mr President, to ask that Italian families be protected and, when we have a euro available, we give it to them rather than to those who come from outside? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I do not think so, because it is the Italian families who pay their taxes and allow the whole of this House, all this wheelchair, to stand. And, therefore, it is not for populists, ladies and gentlemen, but for balanced people, to ask for Italian families to have priority. It is not an emergency, perhaps, that 170,000 people are coming, dear colleagues. But it is when the 170,000 who arrive add up to 170,000 last year and those who enter the land - they are not counted among the above 170,000 but, badly counted, should be 100,000 a year - which, in turn, add up to those of the previous years. As a result, they become 170,000 plus 170,000, plus 100,000, plus 100,000. All this mass of people goes to fill the hotels and stays with their legs in the sun, with the phone in hand, paid by the state, with lunch and dinner paid by the state and with the clothing paid by us. They stay in hotels, not luxury, but good category, in the pool and maybe complain, while at the same time Italian families die of hunger and are forced to live by car. I think that people are spinning around and, as a result, we are referring to these people who are spinning around, because we are on the side of those who want to prevent Italians from dying of hunger and immigrants who have the good life in our country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Marin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u55	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, to explain the reasons why we will obviously vote in favour of our resolution, and against many of those tabled by others, and in particular that of the majority, I will focus in particular on one point, immigration, also because I have already had the opportunity to say many times about Greece what we think and I myself think. Without Greece, quite simply, Europe is no longer there and our country should clearly support the sacrosanct struggle of that people and that Government against austerity policies. President-in-Office of the Council, it is not enough to talk about affection and friendship without concrete action. We need very clear specific acts, considering that sometimes we are at a crossroads, Mr President: either we are with Greece, with its people and with its government, or, in fact, we are with austerity policies. On the other hand, I would like to speak more fully, though quickly, of the specific issue of immigration, which I believe is at the heart of the President-in-Office's report. We are certainly faced with a tragic emergency, often also for people who die, but - as can be seen from the figures - very often even built art by those political forces that - as I have said several times in this House - make mocking propaganda their action, using it naturally as a simple weapon of consensus. This, of course, does not mean that there is no problem, because there is everything and there is everything, and I do not call into question a Europe that demonstrates its fictitious unity. In fact, the arrivals of refugees - as has also been said in this House - are not very different from those of a year ago, and the big difference lies in the unconsulted reaction of many countries. However, it would always be right to ask what are the reasons for the emergency - in this House on this, unfortunately, there is a grave silence - as well as, above all, all those political, strategic, military and geopolitical choices that have been totally wrong over the past few years, endorsed by many political forces, which have clearly destabilised many areas of the world. It is truly paradoxical that the country that, more than anyone else, has pushed in the past for the disastrous intervention in Libya today is one of the most closed ones in dealing with the consequences of the humanitarian emergency. And I'm talking about France of course. Of course, the situation is difficult, and nobody denies it, but the principles that we should and must refer to are very clear and we could call them real polar stars, namely international law, our Constitution and the strenuous defence of human rights. These polar stars I really hope will make us abandon the ineffective and wrong roads of which, however, we hear a lot about, such as the idea of combining humanitarian interventions with acts of war against the boats and structures that would support the hullers and such things. This is a real manipulation operation, which serves only to remove the reasoning on the structural causes of migration, while - as a child would understand - the massacres of migrants would happen the same, perhaps no longer in the Mediterranean Sea but - for example - in the Libyan desert. An unbearable hypocrisy and a real madness, conducted with the same perverse logic in the last 15 years, has determined and accelerated the emergency we are talking about today; just as would be, from our point of view, a wretched military action of land. We have to change our path completely. The military intervention, even at best, would be able to stop the migratory flow only for a very short flash of time. Obviously, however, this same migratory flow, after military intervention, would resume with multiplied dimensions compared to today. Our duty is another: to save as many human lives as possible. This is, today, our main duty, just as yesterday our main duty was not to interrupt Mare nostrum. Desperate ones who seek salvation must save and not submerge. I'm not using these words at random. I repeat, we must save them and not submerge them. To counter the obscene traffic on their skin, humanitarian corridors are needed to ensure secure access channels on our continent. We need an agreed and supportive European plan for the resettlement of refugees. We need a grant of humanitarian residence permits to ensure free movement within the European Union. A continent that has several million inhabitants, hundreds of millions of inhabitants cannot consider an apocalypse 100,000 people fleeing from wars and hunger. And again, we must insist on resolving the regulation at the root of all tensions, Dublin III, a regulation to be suspended and then radically amended so that asylum seekers are guaranteed the same rights as Schengen provides for European citizens. But in order to succeed in all this in Europe - and I conclude - our Government would need that authority and also that capacity for political action which, unfortunately, at the moment, are completely non-existent. The triumphal declarations of a few months ago were followed by events of opposite sign, just as it was totally wasted - and we should also think more seriously about this - our six-month European Presidency. Italy, in Europe, lacked authority yesterday, when there was Berlusconi, and unfortunately lacks authority even today with its Government. The effect, the propaganda, the lies, the tweets and the many things we've been talking about over the last few months is obviously no longer enough. Mr President, it is no longer enough at home, it is no longer enough in Italy either. Just ask the teachers if they are enough or not enough. Imagine if that's enough in Europe. The reality, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is much more complex than the easy propaganda you have told us over the last few months. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bocchino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u58	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I would like to say that we will vote in favour of our resolution and some of the other points and, in the opposite sense, the majority resolution. We are voting against the majority resolution first because there is a commitment to keeping Greece in the euro and in Europe, and we are wondering why we must continue to maintain a people in Europe and not respect its choices. He has shown this with the previous elections, giving a full mandate to his Prime Minister to discuss these aspects again, and instead we demand to bind it. I heard Senator Casini say the spread will rise and so on. Do we want to put it to the head that Europe is not just a matter of numbers? Europe is made up of people who have the right to live worthily, not to be slaves to the Troika or anyone else. They must be able to live normally. So, Mr President, I quote you - as Senator Bonfrisco did - the extract from another text that I do not know if you know, but that you certainly know a minister of yours. The developing nations need increasing levels of energy and raw materials to support their growth. Competition between these resources could produce a higher level of international tension resulting in possible conflicts. More serious is the growing scarcity of vital resources, such as water and food, generated by demographic growth, climate change and irrational use of territories. It is the basis of migration phenomena and could lead to strong competition, even armed, for the possession of such resources. Mr President, this is point 35 of the White Paper on Defence. That's what we think is the future scenario. On the contrary, Mr President, I am giving you some bad news: the scenario is already the same. I do not know if you know, but at the root of the conflicts that currently exist in the world - and 33 have been recognized - is precisely the scarcity of resources and their grabbing. I quote, if you like, some countries: Algeria, Chad, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Libya, Mali, Nigeria, Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of Congo, Somalia, Sudan, South Sudan, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, Israel and Palestine, Yemen and Ukraine. These are all countries that, for one reason or another, have to do with energy resources or, in any case, mining. I appreciated the part of President Finocchiaro's speech in which he said that development cooperation must be implemented. Development cooperation means, however, that these countries have the right to access their own energy resources, because we remember that those resources are theirs. They belong to their peoples and it is we who go to war with them to have their resources. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So I ask myself: how do we allow these people to keep their resources within themselves and to redistribute wealth? I really feel uncomfortable hearing certain words when I know that 1.60 percent of the world's population has about 56 percent of the world's wealth. Then, Mr President, you must give me an answer, if possible. What's your policy? How do you plan to redistribute this wealth to those peoples so that they no longer feel the need to migrate? Why do we always have to deal with the question of consequences and never the question of causes? Then, the cause is the policies of all the states in the world; they are the aggressive policies of the United States; they are also the sanctions to Russia. Let's look at the Ukrainian conflict. There's gas involved. In Congo it is for coltan; for Israel and Palestine it is water, while in Nigeria it is for oil. Tell me what we have to do? It's a snake biting its tail. We are here to tell it beautifully - of course I have already repeated it in other situations - with our butt in the heat, making war in other countries, and we prepare a military instrument that is practically projectable in other parts of the world to defend our strategic interests. So when do we start thinking about humans? Why do we always have to think about numbers and wealth? The human being should be the center of everything, of every political decision. Politics exists for human beings and we are talking about something else. We are talking about going to convince Europe to review the Dublin III Regulation - it is a regulation and not a treaty - which you have signed. You said this morning you can't look back, but we can do it because we weren't there. This has been followed by policies. I'm not doing demagogy or populism, but I'm saying what's going on. We weren't there. We tabled a motion in December 2014, which you had the House approve, which provided for simple commitments which, this morning, stated that they could not be prosecuted, because you made it clear that the revision of Dublin III could not take place. She's already been told no. And we heard the news of President Centinario. So, President, you're going to Europe to do what? It's just an economic issue. We are going to deal with the transfer of economic sovereignty. Why don't we respect the citizens who told you something else? You are not there to make the interest of a few bankers or the few Europeans holding that 1.60 percent power. Why not take a shot of dignity and defend the other 90 percent of the world's population? I begin with Italy asking for the immediate establishment of citizenship income [[Applause from the M5S Group]] .) If that between Italians and immigrants is a war between poor people, it is because in poverty we are ending. And I am referring not only to economic poverty, but also, and above all, to the lack of dignity, to a social situation in complete degradation. Moreover, we are currently seeing speculation on human lives by a few murderers. That's what I call them. I don't even call them mobsters anymore, but murderers! Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have the task of reviewing - as Senator Finocchiaro has also asked - everything concerning contracts awarded to cooperatives. Never again allow yourself to award contracts to individuals... AIROLA (M5S). ...especially Alfano! MARTON (M5S). ...that benefit the lives of people and the weakest. Don't ever let that happen again! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Make a commitment to discuss citizenship income immediately. Keep in mind another unpleasant news: this morning an entrepreneur took his life in Padua, an entrepreneur who had an excellent turnover. They will try to understand the causes, but from the first unconfirmed news it seems that the banks have asked him for the return of the capital relative to investments that have not gone as he hoped. So what are we talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. MARTON (M5S). Mr President, that also makes me uncomfortable. It did not interrupt either President Napolitano or President Finocchiaro. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u59	I explained this earlier, and Senator Centinario has accepted my call for respect for the times to try to finish our work within the time frame.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u60	MARTON (M5S). There are no people more equal than others, Mr President. Take my word off! What I had to say... President I won't take his word for it. I only invited her to conclude. MARTON (M5S). I'll stop here then. [[Comments of Senators Santangelo and Martelli.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). You're a doormat! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We've wasted more time like this! MARTON (M5S). She's the one who wasted my time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u63	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I must admit that I find it difficult to understand what is happening. Reading the newspapers of today and of the last days seems possible anything, but also the opposite of everything. As far as the problem of Greece in Europe is concerned, one thing is certain: the Greek Government had then falsified its budgets, thereby increasing Brussels' distrust and prejudice of it. And, perhaps, it has further fueled the prejudice and mistrust of Brussels also towards the Mediterranean countries, the famous PIGS that no longer go in fashion but that in the end remain the same. I have the impression that Europe is no longer the Europe of ideals and values, but the Europe of national selfishness and interests. We are far from that Europe imagined by Schumann, Adenauer, De Gasperi and Spinelli. We have arrived at the Europe of Katainen, Dijsselbloem and Junker to a Europe far from the citizens; a Europe of eyes and harsh Brussels officials who have not been legitimized by direct elections but who prepare and take decisions - and we know how important this is - replacing the Heads of Government and Ministers at Council meetings. Even with regard to the Greek problem, reading the newspapers today - having no access to confidential information, which I imagine and hope the Italian Government has - it seems to understand that the Greek problem can be resolved quickly enough: it is enough to increase VAT by a few points with regard to non-necessary goods; it seems possible to block early retirement and it seems that the Greek Government has said that it intends to commit itself so that access to retirement takes place a few years late until it reaches 67 years. In return, Europe today tells us that not even 50% of the EUR 35 billion from the Cohesion and Development Fund will be available to national governments. This means that the Greek problem is probably solved: they have probably come to the demands of the Eurocrats and Brussels officials. I remember, however, Mr President-in-Office, that in May 2014 you said in this House that we should not go to Europe to take the list of tasks to do, but we must go and tell what kind of Europe we want. He also said that we think we should help Europe change itself and that we must avoid a bureaucratic and technocratic drift. At the moment, however, the only result we see before our eyes is that we are out of all tables. The fates of Greece are decided by Hollande and Merkel, who regularly see Tsipras without the competition of the Italian Government, who also has a credit of more than 50 billion, of a few billion euros less than that of the French Government. The Russian-Ukrainian crisis is dealt with in the Normandy format, from which we are obviously excluded. It is therefore no wonder, Mr President, that the President of Confindustria says that it is demoralizing to see that when the summits that matter no longer invite us. Then there is Greece and its strange government with a milazzo flavour. I say this in particular to friends from Sicily, who will remember that in the immediate post-war period there was an alliance between left and right: in this case the 149 members of Syriza and the 13 members of the independent Greeks managed to make a right-left government. [[Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]] Well, that strange government has managed in a few weeks to light the light on European behavior, to deal with force and determination and to really put into crisis the rigid and counterproductive parameters that are always wanted by the European bureaucracy. The most chilling picture, however, was taken from the reading of an interview by Minister Varoufakis, which appeared, if I remember correctly, the day before yesterday in the daily newspaper "La Repubblica." This strange minister, who comes on a motorcycle to the Ministry and struggles to wear a tie, tells us: Those who had impartially attended the Eurogroup's deliberations would inevitably come to the conclusion that this is a very bizarre forum, poorly equipped to make good and sound decisions, when Europe really needs it. Greece and Ireland - I would also like to add Italy - were severely affected at the beginning of the crisis, because the Eurogroup was not designed to effectively manage the crisis. He is still unable to do so. This is the Europe that has seen Varoufakis, who will also be a strange negotiator, but who is an extraordinary negotiator, because the things I have tried to say before are worth it. The basic question raised by the Greek Government is the central one. We have all touched on how inadequate and wrong the responses to the Eurogroup crisis are and at this time of weak exit from the crisis nothing has changed, the answers remain the same. Is that what you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tell us when you are talking about changing towards Europe? This morning, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you had a few applauses and one of them did when you mentioned Erbil, but in my opinion it was a wrong applause. In Erbil there are no migrants, but Turkmen, Yazidi, Assyrians, Chaldeans, Christians, Armenians, people fleeing the war, but who want to go home. Erbil has set up an extraordinary way to set up refugee camps for hundreds of thousands of people who want to return to their homes after the war may have ended in northern Iraq, but we have another kind of immigration. So, ladies and gentlemen, the applause you gave your President was wrong, because it is two types of immigration that have no affinity with each other. The thing that worries me most - and I come back to the premise, which is why it is difficult to understand what is happening - is that this morning you touched very much on the main subject, which will be the subject of the meeting in Brussels for the next two days. There is a ghost wandering around Europe and who mentioned in his speech President Casini, namely the report by Juncker, Draghi, Dijsselbloem and Tusk, in collaboration and in association with the President of the European Parliament Schulz. It is something that is happening to us between the head and neck, of which you will either have to acknowledge or approve or reject. The Juncker report is a document that goes in the direction of economic unification, affecting the national sovereignty of individual countries; it is a document that goes towards an economic union that is guaranteed by the creation of a coordinated system of independent national authorities, responsible for evaluating the results of the public policies of each country and if there is something that is not good for these eyeed officials and these eyed authorities, we will be punished, more than it has happened to date. There are procedures to intervene ad hoc on macroeconomic imbalances and our country is on the list of five countries with macroeconomic imbalances. We are entrusting our national sovereignty to a Europe that we do not know, to that very Europe of officials and Eurocrats who are seriously prejudiced against our country. This morning, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you spoke of a wall, remembering that at the age of fourteen you witnessed the fall of the Berlin Wall. Under that wall, however, there was a famous cellist, Rostropovich, who is not under another wall, the one that is rising in Europe, between North and South Europe, between the prejudices and mistrusts of the Europeans who are in Brussels and our countries. There's a deafening silence around here, and I'm afraid of that wall, Mr. President. This morning you quoted: "Amicus Plato" - and I also add "Amicus Socrates" - "Sed Magis amica veritas." Paraphrasing the quotation, I say that Europe is a friend, but I am more interested in the truth and the truth of today is that we are struggling to be in this Europe of prejudice, in which we must follow the parameters that those officials indicate to us and on which we often find it difficult to be heard. Well, this wall I hope you will have the will to break it, given that you mentioned the wall that fell in November 1989, but I do not have the feeling that you go to the European Council with the best intentions, where today, in the report you made to this House, you basically omitted the main theme, which is that of the Juncker report, on which we will go to confront ourselves for a Europe that is profoundly different from that to which we are accustomed and where the transfer of national sovereignty in favour of this Europe and these officials does not fit in with the wake of the best Italian democracy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u66	TONINI (PD). Mr President, the level of speeches by Senator Tronti and Senator Finocchiaro, appreciated by all my colleagues, allows me to be very brief in expressing the convinced support of the Democratic Group for the political platform proposed to us by the President of the Council and which naturally translates into the motion for a majority resolution. I also very much appreciated the opening of Secretary Gozi, in line with the recommendation made by the President-in-Office of the Council, on seeking maximum unity in Parliament and in the country in such a difficult passage for Europe at this time. I very much appreciated the openness with which Secretary Gozi declared that many parts of the motions for resolutions by colleagues from the opposition were acceptable, an opening not always reciprocated, but so goes the world: there are those who work to unite and there are those who work to divide, even in our democracy there are those who try to build bridges and those who are lingering to build walls. We want the country's maximum unity around such a difficult passage for Europe at this time. I would like to say to my fellow Members who have just spoken that we are in the midst of a very hard political confrontation on the future of Europe, it is not an academic debate that takes place in Brussels and it is not an academic debate that takes place in the capitals of Europe at this time. There is a very hard confrontation between those who work hard and hard to strengthen the unity and solidarity of our old continent; a continent with great problems, just think of the demographic problem - ours is the oldest area in Europe from this point of view - but with extraordinary opportunities that derive from our history and precisely from our dangerous geopolitical location. We work for more Europe. Which side are you on, ladies and gentlemen? I have heard the words of my colleague, the League's Parent Company, which provides for a negative outcome of the comparison to the European Council. We are fighting for a force, and in the near future for an override, of the Dublin Agreement and the basic text on which the European Council will work goes in this direction, with emergency measures, since the Commission's proposal suggests that the Dublin Agreement should be forced and that it should be overcome in the long term. Which side are you, ladies and gentlemen? We cannot stay at the same time in Italy, to push, or rather push, the Government, as it is right that the opposition does, to force these rules, and to ally in Europe with those who instead want to return to the myth of national sovereignty. [[Applause from the PD Group]] How can we, ladies and gentlemen of the League, say that we want more Europe, more co-responsibility than Europe in the management of immigration and then ally with Mrs Le Pen, who certainly has everything in her mind but that? [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] We have heard - I say this without controversy, with a thread of irony - an unprecedented axis between the leader of Forza Italia, Paolo Romani, and the Greek economic minister Varoufakis: it is an interesting convergence, but also in this case, dear colleague Romani, do we really think that the future of Europe can be built through a new contrast between Southern Europe and Northern Europe? Do we have the hope of getting out of this conflict alive, or is there no need to relaunch a new pact between the peoples of Europe in a modern and appropriate way in our time? We work constructively in this direction, then. Finally, colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, I greatly appreciated the ethical afflate - I say this with sincerity; now we know each other - of your Parent Company. We want to change the world, we want to change the world's power relations, we want to build more solid moral foundations for development, for peace, for a bit what our Constitution says in Article 11. We want to build an international order based on justice and peace. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] But do we really think that this can be done by Italy in solitude? AIROLA (M5S). We don't count anything! [[Senator Martelli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u67	Senator Airola, we're completing.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u68	TONINI (PD). There are those who try to build bridges and those who are fond of walls. Dear colleague Airola, I prefer bridges, even in here, trying to reason together, and I stress that. [[Applause from the PD Group]] AIROLA (M5S). You're being arrested by the entire party. Shame on you! TONINI (PD). Do we really think that there can be a capacity for Italy to build a different world on its own or is Europe the minimum size, the minimum size at which the problems of our future can be addressed? That is why we are firmly in solidarity with the President-in-Office of the Council, who will be on a difficult date, as always the European Councils. We know that we want more Europe on the geopolitical ground because only at European level can we tackle such problems in an appropriate way, in the field of economic policy. On this we are pushing to go beyond austerity and to really have an economic policy of the Keynesian type of Europe, i.e. based on more investment, in particular on knowledge, taking up and relaunching the Lisbon Strategy, and finally on the ground of democracy. In fact, there is no future for democracy at the low level of national states. As Mr Tronti has said impeccably, we are in the middle of the ford between what is no longer there, namely the old national sovereignty on which democracy had been built, and what is not yet there. We want to go towards what is not yet, we are not nostalgic about what is no longer there. [[Applause from the GroupPD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u69	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). (Senator Amoruso told the Presidency that he had not been able to vote.) Senator, the Presidency takes note of this. Senator De Petris, as regards motion for a resolution No 2, do you intend to withdraw the parties on which the representative of the Government is opposed or request a split vote? DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would ask that the vote be taken separately. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The House must then decide by show of hands whether to allow the split vote. CRIMI (M5S). But, Mr President, that is not the case! Only if someone opposes it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put the motion for a separate vote to the vote. It's approved. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] I therefore refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of paragraphs 5 and 6 of the motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premises and paragraphs 1 to 4 of the motion for a resolution No 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3. Do I ask the presenters whether they intend to request a split vote or withdraw the parts on which the Government has expressed an opinion against them?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u70	Mr President, interloquent with the Government also with respect to paragraph 4, it had emerged that if the words 'legislative' and 'after the word 'interventions' had been expunged from the same word, the Government's opinion would have been favourable. Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I confirm that. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Since there is the confirmation of the Undersecretary Pizzetti, we therefore accept the rewording of paragraph 4 of the device and withdraw paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u71	I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 3 (text 2), tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4 tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 5. I ask Senator Scavone if he means that the proposal is voted for separately. SCAVONE (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of paragraphs 2, 3, 6 and 8 of the motion for a resolution No 5 tabled by Senator Scavone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call for the electronic vote on the premises and paragraphs 1, 4, 5 and 7 of the motion for a resolution No 5. The Senate doesn't approve. Senator Fattori, do you accept the rewording of the representative of the Government concerning paragraph 7 of the motion for a resolution No 6? FACTORS (M5S). No, Mr President, and I ask for a split vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of paragraphs 1 to 4 of the motion for a resolution No 6 tabled by Senator Fattori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call for the electronic vote on the premises and paragraphs 5 to 8 of the motion for a resolution No 6. The Senate doesn't approve. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of paragraphs 1 to 3 and 5 to 15 of the motion for a resolution No 7 (text 2), tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the electronic vote on the premises and paragraph 4 of the motion for a resolution No 7 (text 2). The Senate doesn't approve. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 8. Senator Bonfrisco, are you asking for a split vote? BONFRISCO (CRI). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of the motion for a resolution No 8 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call for the electronic vote on the premises and paragraphs 1 and 4 of the motion for a resolution No 8. The Senate doesn't approve.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-471.ana.u72	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.12 a.m.
