ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u4	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u8	I communicate that the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic are convened in common session, with the participation of regional delegates, Thursday 29 January, at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: "Electing of the President of the Republic."
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u9	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1385, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of a bill of popular initiative and the draft own-initiative law of the Cirielli deputies; Pisicchio; Bersani and others; Francesco Saverio Romano; Best and others; Lenzi; Zampa and Marzano; Zampa and Ghizzoni; Martella; Francesco Sanna; Bobba and others; Giachetti and others; Giorgia Meloni and others; Rigoni and others; Rigoni and others; Nicoletti and others; Martella and others; Vargiu; Burtone and others; Balduzzi and others; Laffranco and others; Vargiu; Toninelli and others; Door and others; Zaccagnini and others; Valiante and others; Lauricella; Michele Bordo; Marco Meloni and others; Di Battista and others, and 1449.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u12	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to make this House aware that, following a request made by some of the senators, President Fedeli correctly convened a Conference of Leaders at 3 p.m. to examine a possibility that we believe would be absolutely correct, given the delicate and very important institutional transition. You, Mr President, have just announced that on 29 January Parliament is being convened in joint session for the first vote on the election of the President of the Republic. We asked for a suspension - this happened to the Senate, but it also happened to the House - of the examination in this case of the electoral bill and, as far as the House is concerned, of the constitutional reform, precisely because of the delicacy of the situation. These 15 days, Mr President, should serve to create the best and most united climate possible, in order to find the broadest consensus around a figure that can be elected President of the Republic and therefore, in a much more choral way, can represent the unity of the country and be the guarantor of the Constitution. We have not asked to suspend Parliament's work, because both the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies have decree-laws and draft laws that, among other things, citizens have been waiting for a long time, so time would be used in an absolutely productive way. Our request therefore derives from the particularity of the situation that has arisen, because I challenge anyone to find a precedent in the history of the Republic in which, after the resignation of the President of the Republic or at the end of his mandate, Parliament has never found itself in the situation in which it is now, namely to be engaged in the contemporary examination of a profound revision of the Constitution and in the discussion of an electoral law. These are two issues that have a lot to do, among other things, with the role of guarantor that the Constitution entrusts to the President of the Republic. Therefore, this particularity has led us to appeal to the other Group Leaders and to the President, to ask them to avoid the contemporaneity of the dual commitment, since there are tensions. Unfortunately, as you know, Mr President, this morning we were forced to denounce in this House some casual methods: continuous procedural tears do not create an atmosphere of serenity and tranquility, not only to examine the electoral law, but also to create a climate of serenity necessary to find the best possible solution for the election of the President of the Republic. Of the two one: or someone has already decided - but it is good that you say so at once - that the election of the President of the Republic must be consumed within the Nazarene Pact, therefore within the majority plus someone else, and therefore there is obviously no kind of interest in creating a climate of dialogue and collaboration for the construction of a unity and for the identification of a high and strongly unitary figure. This would make us understand why we want to continue on the path of a confrontation, which could be accentuated on reforms, as we know, and also on the electoral law, given how we are proceeding. Or, if you have tabled an amendment this night containing what is termed, with a bad word, a safeguard clause - and you do not understand - for whom - it is said that the law under consideration will only apply from 1 July 2016, I also wonder what the hurry is and why we must continue to run. Tomorrow the sitting will be endless, all the time and then we will continue with this rhythm. Or you even want to use the electoral law as the President-in-Office of the Council says, who believes that you should go and vote if the election of the President of the Republic does not take place at the fourth vote. I see that there is a further constitutional reform in place, so it is now the President of the Council who dissolves the Chambers. [[Applause from Senator Lezzi]] We're used to everything here anyway! All the more so, on the subject of electoral law, institutional and political prudence would like to have its procedure suspended in order to prevent this debate from even being used almost as a blackmail to the great voters of the President of the Republic. On 29 January we have to vote as people, men and women, senators, Members and regional advisers free to make our choice peacefully and without anything being used as blackmail. That was the point - and I have repeated it here also quietly and we have explained it at the meeting of the Leaders - of our request to suspend the debate. We did not want to have access to our proposal, which was really about creating a climate of serenity. But I would like to hope, Mr President, that there will be no more forced forces, that there will be no more tears in the debate on the amendments to this draft electoral law, because if you want to look for the accident, then perhaps my suspicion that you want to build a fence to carefully avoid the possibility of creating a large sharing for the election of the President of the Republic, would be fully confirmed. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed Groups and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u14	Senator Airola, the debate was already held at the Conference of the Leaders, which did not make any changes to the agenda, so there should not even be a debate on the matter. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u15	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am simply speaking to inform the House of what we have said, and I will be brief, however, also because Mrs De Petris has expressed the opposition's position, so there is not much to add. The only thing that I feel I must add with great calmness is that our proposal to interrupt, at this very delicate moment, this work that we, as you know, have already defined as critical, unconstitutional, this procedure adopted for the electoral law, to deal instead with other norms that we consider very useful to the country and equally urgent, waiting to vote a Head of State that could change - this I need to say in this House publicly - political climate within the country, thus creating another more suitable to work and discuss together on norms, including electoral law, at a later stage, I feel of such common sense that rejecting it makes me suspicious. It means that perhaps this proposal of common sense, which could lead to dialogue, is not accepted because it could be dangerous for other power relations that I am not here to reiterate, but that concern the two of the Nazarene Agreement, the two characters who are dealing with the problems of Italy without involving Parliament. [[Applause from Senator Marton.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u16	Let us continue with the general discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u17	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u18	Mr President, in this long and very extensive debate on such a sensitive subject we would like to add further considerations, although we still regret to see how this House, which should be the holder of that legislative power in the first place, is once again in a position of extreme and continuous subjection. [[Call the president back.]] Let's talk about electoral law. At present, the way in which Parliament is elected in part has been donated and regulated by a judgment, almost as if we had a law made by the judiciary and not by Parliament. It is therefore important for this Parliament to be called upon to speak on such a sensitive issue as the current one. Although briefly, I would like to remind you that this is a law in this case chosen by the Government in its absolute image and likeness. We are at the point where, as has been seen in the process that has been followed so far, with the almost total exclusion of oppositions in the formation of this legislative process, we will arrive at a pure and simple validation and consolidation of the current state. I think it is a situation on which we should all be called to reason and to meditate. It is enough to think about what happened with the multitude of amendments that had been proposed to the Commission (we remember, not only from the opposition but also from some members of the majority): neither did that debate that was necessary to arrive in this House with a draft, with a draft, with a proposal that was the result of a confrontation, with a debate that absolutely must be held in the Commission. That, in fact, is the seat of the European Parliament to carry out certain issues which can be voted on and decided without - let me put it this way - the pollution of political membership, because of course when we arrive here we risk that it will dominate the number of votes, i.e. the majority in strictly numerical terms. The Commission, on the other hand, was the place where this draft law was to be examined and discussed, so we must consider and not forget that we have now arrived in this Parliament with a measure without the rapporteur. This, too, is a serious, particular situation and should not be dealt with in any way on a subject such as that of the electoral law. But there's more. The events that took place yesterday are yet another confirmation of a way forward which unfortunately is not being achieved here for the first time with the draft law under consideration. It is not, in fact, the first time that the action of the opposition is limited, in the sense that any confrontation with the opposition is excluded, so that we of the North League can express personalities (the current President is confirmed) able to express with great competence on this matter. Therefore, the measure now arrives in the Chamber without a rapporteur and without a debate on such an important issue as that of electoral law. This is an important measure because, when this law is enacted, it is decided who the king will be, citing a colleague who had already mentioned this reference. This law, in fact, will decide who will be the winner, but such a law must be considered in relation to the institutional structure that will presumably be formed. Reasoning, in the state of affairs, we will arrive at a solution based on a monocameral system with a majority prize that will leave its hands completely free to the activity of government, with majorities that will allow to elect the President of the Republic, the members of the Constitutional Court [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , the members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The concern is that this rule comes - just as was said before - to confirm the current structure, to create in the next legislature a new government similar to the current one. Don't think, though, that having a majority and a government without opposition can be an advantage. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] ; indeed, absolutely never will be, because at the moment when you are alone in governing, you are at a time when the natural dialectic escapes completely, not only of a civilization but of a society. That is why we believe that the exclusion of opposition from this process is of absolute gravity. A rule like this will become the backbone of what may be the government of the coming years, but what is in some ways sorry and surprising is that we are faced with a Parliament that becomes the victim of a government and where we see the faces of our colleagues of the majority have in some ways - pass me the term - an expression of disinterest or resignation. This government, as it is structured, for the balances that have been created within the majority parties, has absolute dominion over these parliamentary classrooms and this is very serious because the orders of constitutional values are reversed: it is the Chambers that legislate and it is the Government that executes, it is not the Government that legislates and the Parliament that executes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Now this electoral law will basically offer us a deception or illusion of being able to choose. At present, unfortunately, there is no option for our fellow citizens to choose from what we are going to vote on. The leaders are blocked; and the leaders will be chosen by the parties. A situation will be created that is approaching what is happening for the constitutional reform of the Senate. We saw it in the electoral law and how the provinces were governed. We've seen the electoral mechanisms of the provinces. No citizen was allowed to elect the President and members of the Council of his own Province. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] They are always party dynamics, party logics, party agreements. And the next Senate, if the bill will not be modified as it was, unfortunately, launched by this House, will have identical consequences: an Italy in the hands only of the parties. And I don't think that's what we want. We want real democracy. And true democracy goes through confrontation. We call on the 40,000 and more amendments, which are an important signal to say: let us meditate. Let's reason. Let us resume and resolve the perplexities that this standard has. Gentlemen, we must not just think about having power in our hands and that, when you have power in your hand, you can decide the fate of the world. Let us remember that it can be wrong. Let us bear in mind that dialectical confrontation is the foundation of our culture, a culture that comes precisely from Italy and also from our doctrines of the legal type. We believe, then, and try to change this law. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, Mixed and Mixed-MovX Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u19	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, we are holding this debate in particularly difficult hours. We live in a uncertainty that the dramatic events of Paris have exacerbated and thickened. Terrorism and fanaticism attack societies that are fragile, impoverished, where the crisis and inequalities have magnified the distances between people and social groups, breaking bonds of solidarity, common missions that are vital to our democracy. It is difficult today for many, for those who do not have work, for those who have seen themselves deprived of role, protagonism, for those who live on the margins, feel citizen with capital, find within themselves the confidence and hope to say their own, to participate and to express their own vote. This malaise has marked the last twenty years of the so-called second Republic and today, not only we feel it, but we feel it even more than in previous years. Challenge and resignation in the face of obstacles that seem insurmountable. And too many energies are wasted, unusable. It is an unsustainable cost, which prevents our society from growing again. The sense of government that we strongly wanted and support is all here: breaking down walls and barriers that have made our democracy an empty shell. Reconnect societies and institutions. Make a new pact between the citizens. This is why reforms are needed: economic and social reforms that can mark a change of course, putting at the center stable employment, redistribution, wage policies, expansion of welfare and the reforms, at the same time, of electoral law and bicameralism (the theme that we are dealing with here today) to secure and restore strength to a parliamentarism otherwise agonizing and discredited by too many failures; to give back to democratic institutions the tools and credibility needed all the more in today's time: time of crisis and time of terrorism. In 2005, now so many years ago, the electoral law of shame wanted by the right center and the League and never opposed enough from the left center was a blow to the hand. It was like removing the oxygen that Mattarellum had given back to political and territorial representation. For this reason, just arrived here in the Senate, with other colleagues I felt like presenting a bill for its restoration and to remove the boulder constituted by Porcellum, an insurmountable wall between citizens and Parliament, which meant the rapid precipice of the second Republic, increasingly marked by the distance and resentment of the Italians towards an increasingly irresponsible and self-referential ruling class. By deleting the Porcellum, we have the possibility to heal a wound and to relegitimize a legislature born under bad auspices, which can find the strength of a constituent trait, laying the foundations of a new republican pact, that of the third Republic. This Parliament, we, can show that politics is capable of self-forming, at last putting itself at stake, on the side of innovation and change, denouncing those who bet on paralysis and the breakdown of institutions. The only and strongest reason of this Government is to move forward, to make reforms, to prove that it can recover the lost ground, otherwise it will stall and fall (and with it, in my opinion, the fate of this legislature). For this reason, I fully share the political will to approve at second reading to the Senate and to the House the overall system of institutional reforms before Parliament meets in joint session for the election of the new Head of State. It is the way to honour the commitment we made in April two years ago with President Napolitano, who here I want to thank for his very high ability to drive and guarantee in such turbulent years and crisis of the system. It is our commitment to give the country the necessary reforms, which have long been awaited. This will put Parliament in the best and strongest conditions to elect a President who will guarantee and strengthen the path of reform, helping our political system to have a stable framework and to close an endless transition. A reorganization aimed at restoring strength and credibility to the institutions, which will have an important impact on our economic growth. In the months in which our country has a watershed in front of it, it is a matter of hooking up the recovery and restarting or of missing it and sinking. And italicum, as emerged from the government amendments tabled last night, is a solid law, much better than the text approved in the House, because it holds together the governability (given by the majority prize, which triggers with a high threshold, that of 40%), the alternation (also given by the possible ballot, if this threshold is not centered) and the representation (given by the threshold of 3%, rightly low to allow vital voices to be represented in Parliament). These are fundamental requirements for every democratic system, which this law combines and does not contradict. However, there is one point I would like to stress, the prize to the list and, potentially, to the party, which avoids the blackmail of the little ones (grave vulnus of Mattarellum, which has burdened many governments in recent years). 100 colleges will be designed and will have to adhere to the morphology of our country, grasping its specificities. However, I would like to return to a fundamental point of the law, the majority prize on the list: it is here, for me, a great opportunity, which I want to highlight. We must rebuild in our country a democracy of the parties, because without collective entities, capable of participation and mobilization, there are neither autonomy nor independence of politics. The destructuration of the organized forms of politics has been one of the most serious causes of the failure of the last thirty years and of the retreat of politics in a notable, therefore conservative scheme. Without real participation, there is no real democracy: I believe it is essential to tell this truth, to resettle this connection and to include in the constituent building site, of which we are strongly protagonists, a law on parties that regulates the relationship with the lobby and with interest groups, a node that is now dangerously uncovered, and finally to implement Article 49 of the Constitution. When they are weak and without autonomy, parties and ruling classes do not constitute an embankment to evil, indeed, sometimes they are conditioned by it, and the instrument of this conditioning, very often, are the preferences, which I consider distorting and opaque, as they are exclusively linked to the destinies of the individual, in a personalistic relationship. Those who must collect preferences will ensure that they are not given to anyone, they will almost sequester, set aside a piece of consent, preventing it from being a common heritage for the construction of a collective subject. I consider the dispute to be very wrong in order to re-introduce preferences. I find it odd that a part of my party has made it a symbol, especially those who come from a political culture that has always distrusted it. I would have liked there to be unnamed colleges in this law or, as a fallback, colleges with short blocked lists, recognizable. In fact, I claim the role of the parties in the selection of the ruling class, which is an essential, necessary function, an ethic of responsibility for the parties, provided that they are bearers of innovation, openness, change and not of personalistic regression and closure. This is the challenge to be overcome, all the more so today that the party's liking index is little more than zero. But all the more so, I think we should try to win back, because it is a vital battle for our democracy. I find it unbearable - and I conclude - to hear the nominations decided by the party bodies denigrate: I find it an exercise of self-legitimacy. What should it be for, if not to fill the system's failures by bringing precarious girls, workers, craftsmen into Parliament who could not compete on the expensive terrain of preferences? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Colleagues, I will still vote on this bill, putting myself back to the mediation found among the parliamentary groups that support the Government, with the sense of responsibility that prevails over all the objective of finally having, we Italians, a worthy electoral law, of which not to be ashamed - as for too long, for more than eight years, has happened - and to be able to go head-to-head for having maintained the commitment to break down a wall that seemed indestructible. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u21	Senator Gotor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I feel it is my duty to record and stigmatize what happened in this House last night. There was an attempt to make the senators believe that the time for the sub-amendments was postponed until the next day, that is to say to this morning, when in reality the night-time of the deadline was kept hidden with the formal argument that, being aware of the different group leaders, it was enough, without warning the need to inform the rest of the senators of the deadline, as an elementary duty of transparency would have imposed to do. Fortunately we were informed of the design and so we were able to deposit the sub-amendments. As a result, this behaviour, which is far from the constitutional tradition and those principles of respect for parliamentary work that should characterize all of us, has proved useless and even counterproductive; so it will remain only proof - I would say tangible sign - of a superficiality and arrogance that leave no good for our future. Having said that, I would like to stress that in each of us we are aware that in this debate on the new electoral law we are facing one of the most important and grave passages of the consequences of the current legislature and, more generally, of the recent history of Italian political life. To increase awareness of this responsibility there is the fact of the coincidence of this vote on the electoral law with the resignation of the President of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano, to whom goes my respectful and personal homage. In two weeks we will be called to choose his successor and then, in a few days, we will define the characters, balances and future structures of Italian democracy for the next 10 years. We have a duty to do things right, starting from the consideration that an electoral law, even though it is ordinary law, has a constitutional substance and therefore must be preserved to the maximum the centrality of Parliament and the prerogatives of the parliamentarians, as guaranteed by Article 67 of the Constitution, for which each of us represents not only a party or a parliamentary group, but the whole nation and exercises its functions without mandate. To make the task even more delicate, there is the novelty that the last sentence of the Constitutional Court on the Calderoli law, accepting the appeal of a single citizen has, in fact, opened the doors to a permanent garrison of the electoral matter by the Supreme Court. We therefore have, as never before, the duty, first as parliamentarians and then as party men and women, to produce a law without any risk of unconstitutionality. The national political system has already endured almost ten years and three electoral rounds held with a law judged unconstitutional at the end, after having been voted by the two branches of Parliament and promulgated by the President of the Republic at that time. Wrong is human, persevering would be diabolical and with unpredictable consequences on the credibility of Italian institutions and democracy as a whole. In this regard, I am adversely surprised that in the Chamber of Deputies, where the debate on the constitutional reform of the perfect bicameralism is under way, the Government opposed the inclusion of a simple rule that would guarantee a prior union of constitutionality by the Court, a preliminary judgment to be expressed within a month on Italicum, before its definitive promulgation. This refusal raises the suspicion that there is already today the awareness that the current measure that we are discussing presents risks of constitutionality, which have been pointed out to us by some of the authoritative constitutionalists that we have heard in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. If that were the case, and I do not want to believe it, we would be making a new, serious mistake, because we would continue to fuel mistrust in politics by contributing, through our failure to monitor, to delegitimize the parliamentary institutions and therefore the Italian democracy. In my speech, I would like to focus on the illustration of an amendment which has received the signatures of a third of the Senators of the Democratic Party Group and which, in my opinion, concerns the central problem of this law, a problem which would prevent me from voting on it if it were not changed, namely the mechanism identified for selecting the new Members. The point concerns the presence of the 100 blocked leaders and the possibility of assigning a maximum of ten to the same candidate. In my view, the convergence of the blocked double capitalist mechanism and multi-candidate system risks having negative effects, because we are giving life again to a system that does not tend to guarantee the equality of the vote but its opposite and that expropriates the citizens of the right to see their actual choice realized and finalized. It is not so important here to reflect on the risks of inconstitutionality, which have been feared by Professor Giovanni Tarli Barbieri in the light of the judgment of the Constitutional Court n. 203 of 1975, significantly recalled in the last ruling of the Constitutional Court and in which it is emphasized, with specific reference to the capilist, that: The full freedom of the elector would be guaranteed by the vote of preference. A principle that would be affected here in the presence of blocked and therefore automatically appointed capilists and moreover - this is the problem - not included separately in a special list, as our amendment provides, but thrown into the same electoral arena, where a fake competition would take place in which candidates do not structurally have the same possibility of starting to be elected, dividing themselves into sons and stepchildren, vassals, valvassors and valvassins. All the more so if the chosen leader, the lord of the local manor, is able to orient his preferences in order to determine and therefore also block the election of the second and even the third elected. Let us be clear: the problem is not the presence of a number of candidates appointed by the political secretary of the party and our amendment has the value of a reasonable mediation, which one third of the Senators of the Democratic Party propose, because we would like a 30% blocked nomination and a 70% elected with preferences. In fact, we are not opposed to the principle that a number of Members are chosen by the secretary of a party: on the one hand to ensure the political viability of those national leaders, forced, because of their activity in Rome, for example, which often lasts for several years, to break the relationship with the territory of origin; on the other hand, to allow representatives of civil society and the professions to enrich Parliament with their experience and expertise, without participating in a competition with the preferences from which they would risk being penalized. The point for us directly is the proportion of nominated and elected with preferences that the agreement reached implies: that is, a share ranging from 55% to 60% of the new Parliament. And even more serious, it seems to me that the right to elect your Members with preferences is left only to the party that wins the majority prize, and not to all the contenders; according to our calculations, who will arrive second (not a small party, but a party that takes 20%) will elect only two, maximum three Members with preferences: everything else will be blocked and appointed from above. I find this a serious mistake especially in view of the fact - I would like to stress this point to the Assembly - that, if we succeed, as we must, in bringing about the reform of the Senate, we will have only one Political Chamber, a single trusting relationship with the Government and a Senate composed of elected of second degree: a Political Chamber to which it will also be up to the election of the constitutional guarantee bodies and that in this way would risk being formed for more than half of its staff according to the will of three or four great appointees with a real oligarchical closure of our democracy. A tight oligarchy that would give the secretaries of the parties an unparalleled power for more at a historical stage in which it is common sense to believe that political forces have lost their ability to select appropriate ruling classes and democratic methods that still await to be regulated on the basis of the effective implementation of Article 49 of the Constitution. In the science and conscience of legislators, does Italy need a similar solution? Or the crisis of political representation, the growth of abstentionism and the rupture of relations between institutions and citizens that about ten years of Porcellum application have certainly contributed to increase must be addressed directly by giving back the right of choice (i.e. election and not appointment) to citizens? Do we really think of trying to deal with these serious problems, which we all understand, limiting ourselves to moving, as far as the central theme of the selection of ruling classes is concerned, from a Porcellum to a Porcellinum? Let me be clear: the limits of preferences do not escape me and, in my opinion, the preferred system, as recognized by all the constitutionalists here heard, would have been that of the uninomial medio-small majority colleges to strengthen the relationship between citizens and territory. But if this is not possible because of the opposition of Forza Italia - and this should be the only veto that is granted to it, also because it has consequences for the organization of Italian democracy - then let us access - I say to Mr Verducci - the neck, that is, forced, to a system of preferences, if the alternative is a Parliament again and again by a blocked majority. These preferences will have to be at most two and with gender alternation in order to avoid falling into the failures of the first Republic, in which the possibility of giving more preferences allowed the individuality of the vote and, therefore, the practice of the vote of exchange with the incentive to corruption that followed, and on medium-small colleges, this in order to avoid an exponential increase of the electoral expenses by the candidates and to favor to the maximum the necessary relationship of mutual responsibility between the elected and its college of reference. For what reason should we give the opposition a second right of veto, in addition to the right which has already been given over the uninomial colleges, given the current relationship of force? This right of veto now, moreover, would concern the fundamental theme of blocked lists, that is the most deprecated aspect of the Porcellum by all of us, not only in the 2013 election campaign, but also during the recent primaries that led to the election of the new PD secretary. This aspect has been condemned by all candidates. What kind of negotiation is it that gives to our opponents and on two qualifying points, which concern the quality and organization of our democracy, the right to make electoral law? Something is given to all political actors and, instead, the message coming from a third of the PD senators is ignored. Our message is consistent with our history, our values, the things we have told voters over the years. On the basis of the current relationships of strength, what sense does it make to continue to bliss us with our electoral consensus if this results in a dry loss of political autonomy and the ability to guide our democracy? Driving and not being guided should be the destiny of the largest Italian party. The time for reforms is now. But let's do it right, without forgetting that the election result of 2013 has handed over to the Democratic Party, not only for the first time in its history, the right and the duty to govern, but also a role of pivot of the political system that we must demonstrate every day to be up to, starting from the need to give Italy a good electoral law, not only as regards governance (which is very important) and representativeness (which is fundamental), but also for the equally necessary aspect of the selection of the ruling classes. [[Applause from the PD, LN-Aut, LAL and Senators Mussini, Gambaro and De Pin. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u23	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u24	Mr President, I must say that I am not at all surprised, unlike so many others, at what is happening with this electoral reform, but not only. Since 2009, all this has begun in the world of work: according to a precise plan, by now, with globalisation, democracy must be a delegated democracy, of the second level, variable according to the circumstances, of course, and the strong powers. So, from this point of view, I'm not at all surprised. I am a little surprised, perhaps - I say this with great regret - by the smallness that I see in this House in really dealing with the problems. I listened with interest to almost all the speeches and I must say that I was very impressed by Senator Chiti's intervention: a real intervention that leaves a mark. And that's exactly what I'm talking about. The gap between citizens, between normal people in the flesh, and politics lies precisely in these actions. I want to remember one thing, and I always say it with deep respect, because it is not my habit to offend anyone: most of the senators present here know that the theme of work is very dear to me. Since the 2013 election has been mentioned several times, I remember that there were points of Italia Bene Comune back then. We were elected here on the basis of those points all together, including me. Too bad you forgot when you had to deal with the real issues. I say this with regret but then, in the end, with the jobs act, a reform was practically adopted that, with the left - with the center-left, I dare say - has absolutely nothing to do with it, unless we made fun of citizens during the election campaign and, therefore, we said something else. It is true that everything is variable (variable can also be), but the problem is when their principles change: here, in fact, their principles change. Calls for unity are always made: it is a difficult and unprecedented moment. I think we all need to be careful about this. I find it right that these things are said, but I want to remember - I always say this with respect - that the democracy of a respectable and civilized country is also measured by the degree of opposition. Here - instead - we want to reduce opposition to the minimum terms. It is said that we have to table common sense amendments, which are of course never accepted. In fact, we are moving forward with confidence and the common sense amendments are being deleted, and not only that. Now we are also talking about the speeches we are making. Then, at this point, write us the speeches and maybe also tell us the tone with which we have to pronounce them, to build an opposition as you like. This is the democracy that you may think you are adopting in this country. Of course, I disagree with this democracy. I think democracy is a serious thing, which should make all of us reflect, but it should make us think carefully. I remember what happens with the provinces, which are still there. As for the second-degree elections, excuse me: what does second-degree elections mean? It means that someone delegates to someone else the power to decide citizens and normal people. I ask someone to explain to me what this really means. I understand what it means, but we must not say that it is democracy: we must say that it is something else. At the moment democracy is an option, it is something that I do not say we can do without, but of which we can reduce space to the maximum. Okay, maybe, like I said now. Of course it's not okay. It's not okay at all. I would have expected to have a debate on the ruling that has taken place and what the policy demands of that judgment: it asks to resume its policy. On the other hand, I am noticing - I always say this in a very respectful way - that one is trying in some way to render that sentence harmless. And so we get people away from us even more, we get people away from politics even more, at such a difficult time. But, excuse me, what changes from Porcellum to sending 60% of the people represented, who must not be elected by the citizens? What are we talking about? Are we talking about an electoral law that will allow a minority - the largest minority, let's call it that - to make practically everything ace? Is that really what we want? Is this how we seek or want to face the real problems of this country? Based on my experience and the fact that I travel a lot, especially in my territory, I tell you that this is not what people are asking us to do; that is not what ordinary citizens are asking us to do. Look, I'm from Basilicata. There were huge demonstrations there, never seen outside that of Scansano in 2001. There's a tomb silence about what those people, those citizens, really are asking for. She pretends she doesn't understand. She pretends to talk about something else all the time. Of course, all this is not the real country, it is something else that does not serve this country or it does not serve much of it, but it serves only some people. And let's keep talking about these things. I had even decided - I do not know how many people are interested - not to intervene in this debate, because I see that nothing ever changes, that action is taken or not. The maximum of democracy in this House is that, sometimes, the opponent is applauded - because we have come to that - or the person who perhaps said something closer at that time is applauded. Look, I don't think it's fair that we don't vote, but I totally understand why we don't vote. In fact, I call on you to vote, because most of those who want to govern us in this way are very pleased that most of the citizens do not go to vote. So the invitation is to go and vote, but also to think carefully about what's going on. Don't be surprised that there is such a total separation between these classrooms and the royal country. I repeat this and I will never tire of repeating it: I am surprised that there are still people who are going to vote. That's my wonder. In fact, we are witnessing scenarios of this nature: in two years, I have never heard that maybe that Senator of that Group is saying something right and maybe we should think about it and see if we can really improve that speech and if we can do something right. I have never heard it, I have never heard a real debate: I am talking about the Commissions, I am talking about the House, I am talking about everything. Everything is now being done by practice: it must be done, because they must justify the fact that there is a House in Parliament. But in fact, that's all I see. I hope that I am wrong - I repeat this again and again - because I want to believe in politics. On the contrary, I believe that politics is really the necessary tool to get out of this crisis, but I see more and more that it is not. I notice every day that passes, and this is a disappointment... [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, have I finished the ten minutes yet? I don't usually get called back, but if I'm done...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u25	Please finish your speech, Senator Barozzino.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u26	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Thank you, Mr President. I would like to conclude with this: I hope with all my heart that it is seriously reflected, because I think that we are all aware of the drama that is being experienced in this country and of what is happening outside these rooms. It's really something that maybe none of us have ever lived. The generations lived it long before us and maybe we just heard it tell. To deal with a problem and an uneasiness of this nature it is necessary for politics to be political: this is the wish I want to make. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed Groups and the Senators Mussini and Puppato]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u27	Senator Lucherini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I believe that we are at a crucial stage in the legislature. In a few weeks, in the Senate and in the Chamber of Deputies, we must approve the new electoral law and the reform of the Senate at second reading, and then face at the end of the month the crucial passage of the election of a new Head of State, after today's resignation of a great President, like Giorgio Napolitano. We hope to be able to do so in a very different way from how we re-elected Napolitano two years ago. I am personally convinced of the need to make reforms, to make them in this parliamentary term and to make them quickly, after years of meetings and conferences, in which texts have been written, but we have never actually managed to make reforms that resist over time. We have, in fact, had constitutional reforms which Parliament was then forced to reform further after a few years, as we are doing - for example - for Title V of the Constitution. Personally, I voted strongly for the end of bicameralism and for a Senate no longer directly elected, but composed of representatives of the regional councils. It is a reform that will give us only one House, which will give confidence to the Government, which will approve the fundamental laws, which will make the central appointments for the life of the Republic, with the reduction of about a third of the MPs directly elected by the citizens. This happens after the decision of the Constitutional Court, which invalidated the previous electoral law and which places us an essential task: to approve an electoral law that finally - after two electoral laws such as the Mattarellum and the Porcellum, which were then revised by Parliament - being approved by a large majority, both shared and not at risk of being called into question, if the parliamentary majority changes, and is not once again reached by the strals and decisions of the Constitutional Court. Above all, after a law such as the Porcellum, which had a major flaw against which we all hurled - and against which public opinion and voters hurled ‐ or the prediction of the blocked lists and a Parliament of the nominations, it was strongly intended to give back the legitimacy to elect Members directly to the voters. Therefore, it is a law that gives back the scepter to the voters, which will give us certain and stable majorities, for strong governments and legislatures, that can face the problems of the country. It is not true, in fact, as Members of the 5 Star Movement often say, that the main problem of a democracy is to have a strong Parliament, because without a strong Government there is not even a strong Parliament, whose main function is to control the Executive and its work. For too many years we have had weak governments which have weakened the same parliamentary institution. I believe that, with the amendments that were tabled yesterday by the majority, great and sensitive progress is being made in relation to the text approved by the House. With the single threshold of 3%, it is also possible to have representation on lists which cannot compete to have a majority, to win the elections, but which are entitled to be represented in Parliament. With the threshold raised from 37 to 40 percent, we raise the bar compared to the possibility of accessing the majority prize, bringing the majority level much closer to 50 percent. We introduce, with the double turn, the possibility of doing as it has been for decades in the municipalities: where there is no majority in the first round, we make voters choose with a round of ballots that legitimizes those who win. It is not true that the current law for the election of mayors is worse than the previous law. I was a city councilman and mayor, during the lifetime of the previous electoral law, when the mayors were elected to the municipal council. At the time, it was bad for them to live, because they were subjected to constant majority changes that sent them home. In a five-year period 10-15 mayors were elected in continuous turn by the majorities of the City Council. The direct election of the mayor was a big step forward that stabilized the municipalities, and the double turn also for national electoral law will give the certainty to those who win to have a strong majority, to have the chance to govern. It will be known immediately - I do not know whether the day after or after a few days - and with certainty who wins the elections, who has the majority and who will rule in the following years. It is the end of the season of the weak and uncertain majorities, often rissosi, that brought back to the vote after two or three years, because they put together to put together, as it was with the Mattarellum, the widest coalition possible, to compete in the colleges putting together everything and the opposite of everything. We got together, we won the elections and, from the next day, in the government action we split up, we began to mark their space, their political territory. Above all the center-left has paid pledge to this goddamn thing, because we have twice had governments that, after winning the elections, after a few years were put into crisis by the same majority, if not even by individual senators elected by that majority and to give it strength. This draft electoral law, thanks also to the amendments that have been tabled, makes a great step forward to our country, especially in a competition in which we must compete with countries, especially in Europe, strong, that have a tradition, a rooting, a greater cohesion of Italy and have all legislature governments that face the problems. We as Italy have often paid pledge and duty for the weakness of politics and our governments. As far as I am concerned, there is only one point on which I am very concerned about yesterday's proposal with the amendments tabled by the majority and, in three cases, also signed by Forza Italia. I am referring to the issue of lists with blocked capilists. I believe that this is an element of difficulty. In front of the decision of the Constitutional Court we had two paths, the first of which was to go towards the union. A discussion would have opened with regard to the choice of the single shift (the Mattarellum), which I judge in a negative way because also that was a vehicle by which the citizens did not choose: there were colleges that elected and others that did not elect for every political force and, therefore, the choice was if certain candidates were placed in the losing colleges were not elected and, vice versa, were elected in the winning colleges. I think it would have been good to go to a double French round, where in the first round there are more candidates and then those who take the most votes go to the ballot. If we reject this hypothesis, because there is no unity - I understand, in fact, that, in order to approve an electoral law, we need a representation that goes beyond the forces that support the government - and there is no sharing on the one-name colleges, then it would be appropriate to go towards the preferences on small colleges. It is true that preferences have elements of great negativity, especially if the scale of colleges is very wide. It is clear, in fact, that, if there is an election campaign, as I did at the regional elections, in a college such as Rome and Province, where there are 4 million voters (it is almost a state), in that case very large resources and commitments are needed. On the other hand, if the colleges are a few hundred thousand citizens, we are talking about a much smaller scale, where the level of commitment compared to preferences is absolutely different. On the other hand, it cannot be argued that preferences are bad and then make a proposal that includes blocked capilists and then also preferences. It will produce the result that the leader will make the soul beautiful, going around the college to ask for votes for the party, while the others will have to get their hands dirty, gathering preferences in the municipalities of the college and, therefore, creating a disparity, which was also highlighted by the hearing at the 1st Senate Commission of the outgoing President of the Constitutional Court, who emphasized a very simple fact, namely that on the same list you cannot have two different election mechanisms. All the electoral laws that we know also have different mechanisms of election: I think of the laws for the elections of the regional councils, where there was the list with the candidates blocked and then there were the elected with preferences. Nowhere in any country is there a system that sees together on the same list, in the same small colleges, blocked capilists that are automatically elected and the other candidates who have to take votes with preferences. That creates an element of inequality which I believe can also be sanctioned from a constitutional point of view. The other question, Mr President, is the will of the electorate. We will go on an electoral campaign in which there will be parties, those who will compete with their lists to the national victory, who will be able to elect other candidates besides the blocked capilists. We will have other forces, which cannot compete to win the elections, which will only elect the leaders. But all together the candidates will have to go to the Italian voters to ask for preference, because in this way they will be elected to Parliament. It will often be a big mockery, because we will go and ask for preferences knowing that, most of the time, they will be useless to the election, not helping to have any Members elected. There will be cases of candidates who will take thousands of preferences and will not be elected, but will be elected a candidate who does not take a preference from any elector. In my opinion, these elements represent great difficulties, which I believe must make us reflect precisely because we risk adopting a good electoral law with respect to the overall assumptions, but having an element of fall, of backwardness. I believe, and I shall finish on that, Mr President, if we had to choose between blocked lists and a mechanism of this kind, that perhaps it would have been better to remain on blocked lists. At least we in the PD have held the primary, and most Members, however, have been voted and are here on the basis of the vote they have received. The mechanism we are putting in place is likely to give us a Parliament which, for the majority, will be elected by the blocked list mechanism for 50 to 60% (a small percentage). I remember all of us doing the election campaign saying that it would be the last one with the blocked lists and that we would be committed to delivering to the country an electoral reform that would overcome this problem, now invisible to the vast majority of citizens. We still have time to change this point. In the next few days we will be able to continue to discuss it, and it would be good if we could change it, taking a step forward. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u29	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Boschi, the confrontation that is taking place in this House is full of interesting ideas and views that have given us the clear feeling that we are facing a historical passage that changes the history of this country. Major changes are hardly easy to make. They always come in a climate where contradictions are evident and where confrontation often becomes important. But what is the story of this country? In recent decades it has been a story of reforms that have always been lacking. It is a story of solutions to the problems never found. Ultimately, it's a story of continuous referrals. The reform, in fact, was a postponement. The solution was a postponement. True in whole or in part, this is the image that has settled among all the citizens but also with the European institutions, who continue to subordinate their judgments on Italy to the implementation of the reforms. To us, then, who are dealing with these issues today, and to those before us, the call of the Head of State, who more specifically put the subject of institutional reforms and the amendment of the electoral law, was more present. On this occasion, it is worth taking part in this intervention to highlight the basic elements of a political path that we are following with determination so that this legislature is truly reformative. First of all, we must say thanks to this Government. Who among us really believes that, after full legislation where no interference has come from governments to the autonomous initiative of the various parliaments that have succeeded and that have not produced any change, this time, however, this Parliament alone would have made it? Today it must be acknowledged that we would not be at the point where we are if there had not been the courageous push of this Government, which has taken its cue from the renewed action of the Democratic Party, which has restored the conditions of political perspective and government for Italy. These were convincing: first of all for the citizens, who have pointed this out to us in their vote; but above all for us Members of Parliament, who have found the context for exercising our responsibility and our mandate in a plan of demanding and valuable reforms. On the other hand, the pages of parliamentary life that reminded us of the results of our work, and which have been defined in this House even with almost offensive words, represent the desire to give a result to a path that will enable us all - I believe, each with its own differences - to look back at the citizens who voted for us, because we did what we said we would do. There is no subjection, there is no blackmail, there is no authoritarianism, there is no narcissism: instead there is responsibility, which is expressed also in the ability to synthesis. We are carrying out a plan within a basic political agreement which rightly takes on the search for wider consensus of the majority in government. Among those who are now blinking their noses for this, there are those who, just a year and a half ago, had no problem sharing the government, and not just the reforms, with this broad range of political forces that is supporting the reformative action. The political agreement shared in its fundamental characteristics is then clarified by successive approximations, making consistent the reforms of the institutions of the State and the rules that oversee the formation of representation, what is the electoral law, in a path that manages the alternation of evaluation of the two Chambers, at different times and with paths also differentiated. This is what we are doing at the moment: at this time, we can clearly grasp it for the simultaneous vote in the Chamber of Deputies on the reform of the Constitution. The reading of the parliamentary phase is completed considering that the complexity of this path is such that it is very easy to measure the constructive and responsible approach distinguishing it from the dilatory instrumentality, especially if, cleared the field from supposed issues of freedom of conscience relative to the electoral matter, it is not recognized to the depths how modified - or, more precisely, improved - the Italicum approved in the Chamber: the thresholds are changed in an appropriate way both at the top, for the ballot, and at the bottom, for the entry; the blocked short lists, already in line with the judgment of the Constitutional Court n. 1 of 2014, are made mixed with the only leader indicated on the card and the possible expression of two preferences by gender; a reduction of the colleges in balance with a regulated dimension of the multiple candidatures and able to guarantee a plural representation of the territories; the prize to the list and not to the coalition. By distinguishing the fundamental aspects from the more technical, always adjustable ones, I therefore believe there is a convincing sustainability of the overall design of the reforms and electoral law, which together reinterpret Italian parliamentarism, tempering representation and governability and raising the voice of the governments of the territories in the new Senate. It is a plan that calls the parties first of all to address the issue of being adapted to the challenges of our time, in a complex and complex society, in which the desire for community mixes with fears and indifference, so that they become able to rebuild their ties with the citizens, and not only through the idea that the expression of preferences represents the solution. Low tributaries to the recent regional elections have been registered against electoral laws based solely on preferences. Yet the problem of participation exists and is before all parties. That is, I stand here, in the belief that the aspects of context and overall design that I have highlighted are important in order to give us all a sense of the role we are playing in this House and of the work we are carrying out, often laboriously, in everyday life, day by day. On the other hand, there is an overall and important plan that is on our shoulders today, on this Parliament, on this majority and on all of us: I think we can really give political authority back, fully addressing these issues and reaching a shared solution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u31	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u32	Mr President, Minister Boschi, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to everyone that the issues we are dealing with in this House, and in our approval of the House, mark the sign of a significant, I would say, epochal change for the political and institutional history of our country. We are witnessing, indeed we are defining, at the same time, a reform of the electoral system and a constitutional reform. Which means we're structuralally reforming our country system. This is not a secondary element and gives us the sign of what is the responsibility we are invested in in this historical phase. We do not have a purely opinionary or pragmatic decision on which, in our opinion, is the preferred, most effective system of election of the representatives of the people. We have before us a debate that touches on the very meaning of democracy, addressing an issue as central as that of representation and the relationship between the State and the citizen. And it is very significant - in my opinion - that such a debate on the instruments of democracy interests this House at a time when democracy is fiercely attacked, as a bulwark of freedom, in the very heart of Europe. In recent years we have seen the definition of a strong confusion in the relationship between citizens and institutions, which has led - on the one hand - to a considerable loss of representativeness of the former and, on the other hand, to concrete and objective problems of governability of the latter. One of the most prominent results, in terms of the citizen-state relationship, has been the strong disaffection of citizens to participate in the vote, increased by scandals and investigations that have involved politicians and institutions in recent years and fueling that demagogy that finds in anti-cast rhetoric one of its best instruments of intervention. In examining this electoral reform, we must address the problem of the need to recompose the fault between the institutions and the citizens. The phenomenon of abstentionism, even in the last election rounds, is only a clear sign of this. Surveys and surveys carried out in recent years have found that the vast majority of Italians no longer have confidence in political parties and institutions, precisely because they believe that they cannot have a concrete impact on the formation of political choices: phenomena that a well-considered electoral reform can contribute, if not to eliminate, at least to considerably reduce by introducing models of culture and political conduct of opposite sign. The way forward is to involve citizens directly in the process of formation of the elected and the ruling classes. It is a question of increasing the spaces in which the sovereign people can regain the rights that, in its stead, are exercised today, with the degenerative effects described by the structures and bureaucracies of the political parties. In different times, certainly more opportune, the problems that we raise today have been posed and could have found solution, reflecting adequately also on the fact that our system of election, with regard to the local elections, previews for a long time the direct election of mayors, presidents of Provincie and presidents of the Region, and drawing the due consequences. What we cannot ignore today, however, is that in this debate there is also a need to recover, strengthen and strengthen the relationship between politics, institutions and citizens, finding also a credibility, now lost, but indispensable, in order to face as a state the great challenges that we are called to interpret on the international front. This credibility - I want to say it here today, without controversy - is based not on one-off river sessions to show that the institutions are there and work, but on a serious, concrete and daily work, a work that shows its daily fruits. It is clear that, from the point of view of representativeness, it would be optimal for citizens to express their preferences directly. But the system of preferences presents objective risks, which also recent investigations - not least the Roman one - have reproposed in a dramatic way. Another aspect which, in this respect, deserves consideration are the consequences, not negligible, of the abolition of public funding to parties. On this point we can have the most disparate positions, but it is an objective fact that, in this situation, it is difficult to think of putting back the nominal system: the lack of resources and means for electoral campaigns risks inevitably re-emerge and facilitate precisely those logics clientele, in order to remedy which was hypothesized the public funding to the parties. On these issues it is necessary to make appropriate considerations, without being conditioned by a well-thought-out hypocrisy, which, however, does not grasp reality. Several preferences were expressed during the debate, including the outcome of the hearings which the 1st Commission had to carry out. On such a delicate subject, it is clear that the positions expressed are acceptable or not, but our reflection must not yield to veiled nostalgia. There is a widespread view on representation that guaranteeing democracy means adopting pure proportionality. With this idea in mind, bipolarism is inevitably condemned as a sign of a monk and deficit democracy, where it does not reflect in a faithful and photographic way the demands of the citizens. However, such a speech does not take into account the distortions to which pure proportionality has been subject in our political history, nor the popular will expressed in the 1993 referendum, nor the fact that one of the aims of an electoral law is to allow the governability of the country, which is the basis of the decision to adopt a majority award. This decision, therefore, does not reflect the desire to depress democracy, but rather to legitimise the popular choices in a certain way, bearing in mind that there is currently the possibility of a separate vote on this, which allows, however, to outline divergent situations between the two Chambers. Over the years, the legitimacy of government comrades has had its own path, also undergoing some metamorphosis that led us - for example - to the direct election in the local elections. And I repeat that a further reflection on this must be done, in order not to continue to carry on a bipolarism that I respect and share, but full of inevitable structural problems that derive - in our country - from the great fragmentation that the coalitions have returned to us over time, and that deprives it of the necessary direct legitimacy of the premiership, that is, the figure that, in fact, will then be central in the government of the country. It is clear that, in this search for a balance between representativeness and governability, we must not flatten ourselves on either of the two poles of the question. And research is all the more tiring because we are discussing it in a somewhat - I would say - hybrid context, in which a broader, institutional decision on the form of government of our country system remains pending in the background. Not wanting, in fact, to make decisive choices in this sense will remain in our country as a continuous element of stumbling and confusion. The nostalgia of pure representation, of the nominal system, perhaps forgets or does not fully consider how that type of representation was linked to a party system that no longer exists today, or in any case does water in many parts. We must be aware that political representation today is experiencing a crisis: in the disaffection of the citizens we see the eclipse of identifying the citizens themselves to the political vision of the parties. This element must necessarily lead us to make a reflection. Certainly starting from the assumption that the system must be reformed in a consistent way, and that - in my humble opinion - there is no optimal system or valid for all the historical and political seasons of a country, it is clear that everyone has his own vision on which could be the best system. Personally, I would be in favour of a system similar to the German one, on the Bundesrat model, but its adoption, although adaptable to the Italian reality, does not find the conditions today to be able to be approved. I note that the reform, which we are currently examining and which has already been examined by the House, has taken a different path, which I also accept, in the belief that it must be improved. As an elected MEP abroad, I must reiterate - as I have already done on other occasions with regard to constitutional reform - that, as far as the foreign constituency is concerned - a true democratic acquisition of our electoral system in recent decades - many superficialities have been said and done, betraying a lack of knowledge and even perhaps a lack of de facto care of foreign reality. I and the other Senators elected abroad have made rational proposals, Minister, but we constantly clash with a desire to delegitimize representation, promoting solutions which, unfortunately, I consider to be personal and which obviously interest someone who wants to make the foreign constituency his feud. At this point, I say with great frankness that it is worth aligning the system with the national one, guaranteeing, among other things, homogeneity to the whole apparatus: a procedure that would allow to spend less and avoid the many problems that have affected the vote abroad so far, conditioning it also in an excessively personalistic way by someone. And all I can say to the many representative spoilers is that these alchemies will turn against him. Among the corrections that would be appropriate to decline appropriately, there is also the issue of voting for Italians temporarily abroad, a problem already emerged for the 2013 elections in relation to students engaged in the Erasmus project. Personally, I believe that it is also appropriate to intervene on this subject, which was also the subject of draft law No. 1059 at my first signature and signed by Senator Della Zuanna, fully framing this category, which covers a wider audience of citizens than Erasmus students, recognising to him with appropriate methods the possibility of exercising his right to vote in accordance with the procedures laid down for all Italians. Finally, I feel that I should like to make a final reflection on the historical-political phase that we are witnessing, in which bipolarism has become polarization, making itself odious to the citizens and, in some ways, losing its significant traits. I remain a convinced bipolarist, but I believe that bipolarism, which enters a new phase, must be accompanied, outlining those counterweights necessary to avoid the authoritarian drifts of those who would like to own the institutions, and of such cases unfortunately we have seen in the past years. No houses are built on landslides. We must study with serenity the possible mechanisms, to define those that would best fit our reality and history. We move in a context in which some priorities are defined for us: to have a certain winner; to regain credibility in the eyes of voters; to take into account the evidence of the Constitutional Court, confirming a threshold for the prize that protects against excessive inequalities and ensuring that, if you decide on blocked lists, these are short. The accompaniment of bipolarism can also be done through further reflection, on the possibility of adopting a system of single-member colleges and on the possibility of establishing clear rules on the distribution of party prizes, to be defined by means of pre-internal agreements governing the distribution between the different lists of coalitions. I welcome the fact that a step forward has been taken in the debate and that the majority amendments have been signed by all the Leaders, ratifying a shared and cross-cutting position on right-wing elements, on which, however, the debate is still open. And I hope that we will not want to adopt forcings or majorities of convenience to approve solutions that are not to guarantee all political forces, and that they would not be accepted. It is clear that opinions, proposals, evaluations and judgments are being pursued throughout the country today, which have an understandable and necessary debate, a sign that even the country rightly awaits and reflects on itself at this stage. Beyond all this, we today have a political responsibility that is ours alone and we must take it seriously and consciously in the interest of the country and I repeat it. [[Applause from Senators Russo and Esposito Giuseppe]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Russo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u34	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been 30 years since Roberto Ruffilli (he will pay with his life, the victim of the Red Brigades), with the mild determination with which he was helping to reform the already tired republican institutions at the time, warned us to start again from the citizens, to give them back the role of "ultimate referee" of the institutions, aware that that is the only guarantee of success compared to the attempt to achieve a fully inclusive and decisive democracy. It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that this invitation remains dramatically timely in relation to the efforts that are leading us to draw up a new electoral law, which the Italians have been waiting for too long. It is in the first place because - we must admit - the last decades have seen a long succession of failed opportunities. The emphasis, the expectation and a certain speed anxiety, which characterize the current reform season, I believe are mainly due to this, to the great amount of reflections, committees and preparatory materials, which have never changed into law and completed reform, leaving the institutions (not only the political-representative ones, and I think - for example - to the rationalization in the key of professionalism, impartiality and democracy of the public administration) "to grow old" and wear down compared to the extraordinary changes that have gone through Italian society. Often, in fact, many of us have used the call - already dear to Giorgio La Pira - to the constituent assembly of republican institutions such as the "common home" of Italian society, a place of co-responsibility and shared commitment to maintaining the conditions that guarantee the development of democracy and solidarity between citizens. We must admit that in this house, which has seen the children of that time become grandparents and great-grandparents, Italy peasants become industrial power and communication switch from radio to social media on smartphones, in 70 years they have not often seen even small works of ordinary maintenance. Faced with the challenges of globalisation of ideas and political demand (which we have also seen in recent days for the facts of Paris), individualistic and liquid society, the overpower of the financial economy, the increasing risk of media manipulation of public opinions, we have often gone too far in the hope that our splendid Constitution and the laws that make our institutions work would not need that periodic storage so frequent - for example - in reality close to us, such as Germany and the United States. As Italian society moved from horseback riding to space travel, the "common house" remained - excuse me for the insistence of comparison - a little hospitable country house, which is still accessed on a dirt road, with dilapidated services and inadequate spaces to the new needs of the family, except for some clumsy attempt (I think of the Porcellum, which we are fortunately about to overcome) to throw down some walls to favor the desire for a larger room, all for itself for some of the guests. The attempt, however, is in danger of compromising - and has done so dangerously in recent years - the static sealing of the entire building. Perhaps it even sounds trivial, but I believe that the meaning of the challenge before us is all here: to give citizens simple, direct, perhaps even captivating instruments, but above all efficient to reconnect the broken thread with participation in democratic life, starting from its basic dimension of the expression of the vote. We know, in fact, that what represented a civic choice, never questioned for decades by the vast majority of Italians, has become in a very few years a disaffection that keeps almost one in two Italians away from the ballot box. What, then, is the opportunity that we absolutely cannot waste by putting our hand in the new electoral law? Once again, I want to recall Ruffilli and the priorities he set out in the 1980s, demonstrating that very little has been done since that time. We must measure ourselves - he said - with the interweaving of the contradictions that have invested the function of government and the function of control of our democracy, knowing that they have their roots in the break-up of the rules, conventions and political behaviors to the affirmation of anti-system forces - already then - to the confusion of roles between the Executive and Legislative, as well as with the Judicial Office, in the face of the difficulties for the whole system of parties in facing the maturation of Italian society and the consequent demand for efficiency and participation. We know that no law, not even the electoral law, has thaumaturgic powers, but we know that it can guide and facilitate decisive processes. So it was - I repeat - in negative for the Porcellum, which has plagiarized the parties with respect to the selection of its own ruling class, favouring criteria of fidelity or esoteric "direct" selections, which have removed the parliamentarians from their territories and made superfluous the constant work of contact, involvement and search for consensus, which makes alive and gives meaning to the assembly democracy of every level. This is why we must welcome the new legislation that we are discussing, especially in the part where, through the introduction of preferences, it tries to overcome the diaphragm that divides and divides citizens and politics, a policy that - we know - is told (although we know that it is a distorted and reductive image) only as a caste that co-opts and autonomouss. We believe that a test of maturity will be needed on the part of the parties in the preparation of lists and citizens, in looking in a way that is not distracted to the curricula of candidates as may have happened in the past, but it is unquestionably a step forward. We do not hide, however, at the same time, two risks that accompany this choice. The first is linked to the costs of the campaigns with preferences, especially if insufficient attention has been paid to the size of the colleges. No one escapes the danger of an economic conditioning that, in the absence of organized parties and public funding, could expose the system to dangerous incursions of corruptive phenomena that we unfortunately know are lurking in our country. The second is linked to the persistence of an excessive number of Members directly referred to by their parties, which may not be definable in its variability and, in some cases, even the majority. This is a delicate point that could make voters think that, especially for parties that would not have access to the majority and lower electoral power prize, nothing is going to change compared to the current rule. Even the parliamentary experience of these years strengthens me in the belief that it is useful to leave to the parties the possibility of selecting directly and enhancing skills, personalities and experiences in a number, however, reasonable and certain. There are mediation solutions on the table (which we have also worked with some of our colleagues) that could guarantee this possibility, bringing out more clearly the innovative profile of a reform that wants to give citizens, as and more than in the past, their role as referees. I remain - I confess - optimistic that we can find in the next few days, in the parliamentary debate, a common position on this issue too. I return again to the effort to achieve an inclusive reform, which reverses, among others, the trend of disaffection to the vote, also because I continue to think that, if there is something not to be imported from so many advanced Western democracies, this is precisely the low turnout at the ballot box, which in many realities risks staying stable now under 50%. I say this because experience teaches us that, to stay out first of all from the democratic dynamics and from that participation that is able to integrate in the lives of their communities, they are always those that "stay behind," the last, the most peripheral ones, that we would like instead well hooked up to the most modern and fast wagons of our society. For this reason, I would also like to stress that it is a very positive fact that the threshold for entry into the House of Deputies should be lowered to 3%. Those from whom I drew the rudiments of civil commitment have always reminded me that the ambition of the best policy has always been to guarantee, as far as possible, any social expression, even a minority, which has the requisites, a right of stand in the assembly institutions. It is that - it is this - where we must continue to have the ambition to make each one express and to dialogue even with those who are very far from our ideas. It is good that the guarantee of this principle, which has often been opposed by a cacophonic parliamentary fragmentation, is accompanied by a prize that will allow governments to rely on more stable and cohesive majorities: which - I want to emphasize it for some critics that I have also heard in these hours - is not at all opposed to the formation of successive parliamentary coalitions for the exercise of government action. De Gasperi's lesson teaches, among many things, that even a largely majority and substantially self-sufficient political force can choose to share the country's political leadership responsibilities on the basis of a common programme. Moreover - let me say this - I think I can claim that such marriages could be much more stable than those of interest, which we have witnessed in the last legislatures, which could suddenly arise between the first and second ballots. I'm gonna go close up. One thing is certain: the first step to regain the credibility and authority of Parliament and politics is to prove ourselves capable of going beyond the polemics of these days and the prejudiceal divisions. I am very frank in saying to my colleagues in the League that 44,000 amendments are not parliamentary tactics. I am only a fool to the institutions and to the Italians, who want us committed to solving the problems and not to playing with the Rules of Procedure, and betray the fear of getting to the substance of the issues, which does not honor so many good colleagues. And to the 5 Star Movement, which is trying to impose the paralysis of Parliament pending the election of the new Head of State, I say... MARTON (M5S). What are you talking about? Mr Russo (PD). ...really without controversy that this is also a further betrayal of their commitments with the voters to make the Houses an increasingly productive place, where not even one day useful to the reforms that the Italians are waiting for. MARTON (M5S). You're really shameful! Mr Russo (PD). For this reason, I really close by thanking President Napolitano again for being a model of good politics, a gracious President even before an extraordinary guarantor of the institutions. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]] I would like to recall what he said, recalling that reforms are an opportunity not to be wasted, if we do not want to condemn ourselves to a pessimistic reflux, without remedy, and to compromise what is being done and must still be done on the ground of growth and development policies; it is not acceptable - he said - that Parliament is still shipwrecked in counterpositions and inconsistency. Be sure, and be sure with him the Italians, that many will try to live up to this challenge. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Biagio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u35	I note that, for agreements between the groups, the last of today's speeches will be that of my colleague, Mr Sposetti, and then we will postpone the conclusion of the general debate to tomorrow's sitting. Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the country needs a breakthrough in many fields and sectors. We have already started an important constitutional reform on our institutions. We are now at the second reading of the electoral law. The electoral law, ladies and gentlemen, still faces a social and economic context in the midst of a crisis. It's an unprecedented crisis, we know. (18.27) (Lumia followed). But, be careful, it is the crisis that we are experiencing that is even more devastating. There is no sector of society and institutions that does not need radical reforms. The difficult situation in Europe, the Euro-Mediterranean conflict context and the new phase of globalisation also call the country to a turning point. We have wasted - alas - the time of the so-called second Republic. We have not been able to make the best use of the lessons of the crisis of the already distant Republic; we had to save the good that was there and that today, with a little excess of nostalgia, we regret bitterly and, at the same time, we had to cure the many deep vices present in it, that still drag us back. Time's up now. In front of us, the path of change is uphill, but it is still open. We must take this path with courage and planning. The devastating and dramatic crisis must even become an opportunity, a resource to change the entire economic and institutional system. Politics must react and Parliament must also not escape this call of responsibility. It has begun to do so, but the step must be even more design and systemic. In this republican spirit we will have to live the reform of the electoral law. Of course, electoral law is not the solution of the crisis, but it is undeniable to think and organize it as a pillar on which to reform representation and equip the country with a strong, well-legitimated, authoritative government at international level and capable of affecting social and economic life. There are also two challenges for the electoral law, as for the reforms of our institutions in the constitutional law: to give a response to the question of decision - yes, decision - and to transform it into a democratic decision of high quality, capable of keeping pace with change, in an increasingly broken and distrusted society, but also globalized and potentially full of opportunities. In the advanced democracies, since the Second World War, the decision has taken such a high democratic value as to organize electoral law and forms of government consistent with this approach. The decision of course needs other reforms to become a mature democratic decision and at the service of the country. It needs legislation to intervene on conflict of interest (forgotten alas), on modern competition and antitrust, on the balance of powers, on the fight against mafias and unprecedented corruption, on the reform of the party system, in order to balance the relationship between majority and opposition and between Parliament, government and citizens. Colleagues, we must also give an answer to the question of participation which only a silly reading of the crisis contrasts with the decision. In the hearts and minds of citizens, decision and participation go together: that is not the case in politics. In a modern vision, instead, politics must have the ability and the ability to combine democratic decision and democratic participation: one is the resource of the other. In electoral law the decision can become a reality and it can be a democratic decision if it is able to make a contribution to the stability of governments. When the elections are closed, the citizen, the country, Europe and the whole world must immediately know who has won and who has lost and who has won has the duty to put into practice immediately the program with which he presented himself to the voters. In Italy the opposite happened and the coalition was used not to govern - and thus feel the weight and responsibility to decide the fate of the country - but to unleash a biecious internal dynamic, which politologists call, in a refined way, dynamic "zero sum," made of vetoes and controvetes, to focus more on the management of power than to guide the country. Each party, alongside the positive things it tried to represent, often, with a few deputies and senators, was able to block everything, to curb or distort the legislative activity and the government. But beware: even the big parties have renounced the leading role and have closed themselves in internal conflicting dynamics and always power. That is why it is good not to miss the step and invest the majority prize on the list and not on the coalition. With regard to plural representation in Parliament - that is to say, a genuine democratic requirement - once the majority prize has been awarded to the list, it is right to lower the barrier threshold to 3% and thus also allow smaller formations to be present in Parliament in order to perform their democratic function as best as possible, without using a disproportionate power over what is conferred by popular sovereignty. The new electoral law must also face the other challenge of demand for participation. In essence, the electoral law must free itself from the yoke of choice over the nominations, not only because we have an obligation to the decision of the Constitutional Court, but also because the country must return to select from below the ruling class and therefore to be able to decide by the vote of the citizens which parliamentarians must play the delicate legislative function. The solutions can be different and each has its own virtues and contraindications. I too have experienced the virtues of the unitary and I think that even today this system can be the best solution. Of course, even the unitary has its flaws: be careful not to forget it! Today, for example, if the union were to resume, this path should open up to modern representation, for example gender representation: that is why it would be virtuous to realize the so-called binomial, so that the electoral body itself would have the possibility to elect, college by college, a man and a woman. But it is not, today, all this seems like a dream, so it is good to focus on Italicum 2.0, to correct it as best as possible and move as much as possible the option of choosing parliamentarians through the vote of the citizens. For these reasons, it would be appropriate to guide the course of amendment in order to reduce the number of nominations, albeit indicated as a capilist. Much has been discussed about the possibility of reducing them from 100 to 70: we evaluate, reflect, decide together. In this way we can raise the number of parliamentarians chosen through preference, or rather with double gender preference, which is giving excellent results in those municipalities where it has already been tested. Attention, however: preferences also have their contraindications. It is easy to end up in high costs, in the vote of exchange, in the damn mediation in which politics is sucked, that bureaucratic and cliential mediation, and often business and mafia. The time for reforms is now unstoppable; the country asks for it. The electoral law that we will approve will be a great opportunity to move on, to move on together. To mark a modern way out of the crisis, we need to feel it in our hearts and minds. Of course, these days we will also be called to other challenges. It is important that these other challenges be lived with the same spirit as our constituent Fathers: constitutional reform, electoral law, election of the new President of the Republic, fight against corruption, mafias, relaunch of growth and the economy, a new role in Europe able to face the great challenges that make the wrists shake for all humanity. They are attitudes that require a design spirit of growth, positive confrontation, able to collect the best energies. I'm in the country. We must also collect them in Parliament, and, as the country can gather the best energies and move on, so we must do, yes, here in the Senate, in this Senate that when it was called to trial, at high trials, it was able to best give its answer, and I think it will also give it in the coming days. [[Applause from Senator Lucherini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Migliavacca. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u38	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Italy has been experiencing a system crisis for a long time, manifesting itself both on the stability side of governments and on the side of growing distrust in Parliament and in parties. Of course, the electoral law cannot be asked to solve these problems on its own, but the electoral law can contribute, and above all - I think - it must have a system consistent with an overall vision of reform of the democratic system. This was the case in the decisive moments of the history of the Republic: in the immediate post-war period, when the choice of the proportional system corresponded to the idea of a democracy based on parliamentary parties and assemblies. This was also the case in the 1990s, when the choice of the majority system for municipalities, regions and Parliament was based on the idea of assigning to citizens, and no longer to parties, the choice of governments. They were internal limits to the Mattarellum and above all, I think, the failure of constitutional reforms to multiply the contradictions of the system until the adoption of the Porcellum gave the final blow to the credibility of democratic institutions. What does a system electoral law mean today? It means, in my view, balancing two essential values: governance and democratic representation; in other words, the stability of governments and the democratic legitimacy of Parliament. It still means approving an electoral law that is firmly anchored in the reform of the bicameral structure. In the transition from the House to the Senate, progress has been made: the raising of the threshold to 40% for the ballot, the lowering of the threshold for access to Parliament, but other corrections are necessary if we are to do that reform of the system that has the ambition to last over time and to solve those problems that I have said. With regard to governability, I immediately say that the double turn with the majority prize on the first list certainly represents an answer to the problem of governability and in particular to the experience - which has been consumed - of broad and heterogeneous coalitions, designed to win the elections but which were then not suitable to govern. I wonder, however, how do we prevent the appropriate coalitions from replacing false lists, that the incentive list award, i.e. the construction of artificial lists designed only to win the elections? I think it would be wise to introduce an element of flexibility and realism into the system, i.e. the possibility (not the obligation, but the possibility) of appearances between the first and second rounds. I come, however, to the fundamental and decisive question of representativeness. It is a positive fact that the thresholds for access are reduced to 3%, but it is pointless to hide that the heart of the problem is the method of electing Members of Parliament. I think it would be a very serious mistake to underestimate the profound rupture that has occurred between citizens, parties and Parliament over the years: I could mention dozens of surveys, as well as the daily experience of each of us. This break requires the reconstruction of a strong link between citizens and Parliament and a healthy democracy - I would like to remind you - does not only need a stable government, which is certainly a good thing, a value, but also needs an authoritative Parliament, which is representative of the vote of the voters. How do we respond to this divide between citizens and Parliament? With widely blocked lists? I do not want to repeat here what some Members have already said, but it is not necessary to be experts to calculate that with the system of blocked capilists we would have a quota of nominations which is certainly majority and does not indicate how the possibility of multi-candidates (so many) improved, because they are nothing more than a further expropriation of the choice of voters. I believe that widely blocked lists would be a vulnus, all the more so because it is proceeding (and I am among those who voted for it) the constitutional reform with only one elected House. A single political chamber with the majority of non-elected parliamentarians directly would open up a serious problem of popular legitimacy for the entire parliamentary system and would greatly restrict not only the area of rights, but also that of citizens' responsibilities and present a problem of constitutional compatibility, because it would undermine the principle of equality of voting between the voters of the larger parties and those of the middle and small parties, which in essence would be deprived of the possibility of choosing. I continue to think that the best electoral system remains that of the one-name colleges, because it allows a conscious choice of the electorate and establishes a strong bond between citizens and elected: the double turn of the college. However, I would like to point out that of the two: either we are going on the road of colleges, with corrective measures that guarantee the ruleability, or we must give voters the choice of parliamentarians, rooting this choice in colleges whose size must guarantee the recognition of candidates and the reduction of the costs of the electoral campaign. The fundamental point about which dissent, the discussion at the Democratic Party's home is, let us be honest, and I think that giving citizens back the choice of parliamentarians is not just a matter of personal opinion, I remember that it is also a founding principle of PD. Senator Fornaro has already illustrated a reasonable model: 75% of elected MPs with double gender preference in limited colleges and the remainder of elected members on circumscription lists. Lists that with some measures can be printed on the cards. I conclude, Mr President, by stressing that the so-called Italicum makes sense if it applies to a single political chamber. The extension of Italicum to the Senate would present very serious obstacles. On the other hand, voting with Italicum in the Chamber and the Consultellum in the Senate would not guarantee governability and would produce a constitutional mess. But today, rather than the difficulties of the failed reforms, our responsibility is to look at the possibility of linking the entry into force of electoral reform to the overcoming of equal bicameralism. A goal that is realistic to achieve in not long time. I remember that at this point Italy could finally have that reform of the system that has been waiting for many years; we would give an accomplished and reformer sense to this legislature and the Government itself would have the merit of having contributed to a great result. For this reason, I think that the priority is the approval of constitutional reform, and the entry into force of Italicum must follow the approval of the reform, including the celebration of the confirmation referendum. Parliament, and in particular the Senate, therefore has a great responsibility. A responsibility - I want to say it clearly and with all due respect - which, without excluding the Government's participation, is primarily Parliament's, because electoral law is not an act of government, on which confidence is measured in the Government, but is a parliamentary act. It's up to the Senate, then, these days to work to untie the remaining knots. In order to do this, it is not acceptable, in any case, any form of obstructionism or attempts to compress the areas of discussion and vote of the senators in this House. We need a targeted and focused confrontation on the essential nodes, which finally try to give the country a good electoral law capable of bringing citizens closer to the institutions. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-SEL groups and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u39	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u40	Madam President, governability is the word we have heard echo, even in the last speeches. It's the magic word. It is the principle that many think it is right and proper to take a step back from another value: that of representativeness. But when you look at it, the two terms cannot be believed to be alternated with each other. In fact, if there was no real capacity for representation, there could hardly be an adherence from the country that was sincere and effective in the policies adopted, both at the legislative level and at the executive level. Therefore, there could be no rooting, continuity and, in fact, there could not be a country governed: if anything, a country commanded, which is not the same thing. Among other things, the fragility of the governability of our country seems to me that, in reality, it is linked, before even to the production of legislation, to the inability to give implementation and execution to the laws and, therefore, to govern (and governability has the same root of government) both at central and territorial level the administrative machinery, economic relations, public spending, legality, taxation, interventions in the educational, social and health fields: in short, everything that makes a state an efficient state, as Europe asks us, with everything that is connected. An inability in which a part of responsibility is certainly due today to a lack of confidence in the institutions, in the policies felt as arcane very far away, in the decisions often perceived as impositions. It seems that governability rhymes with stability. Perhaps, more than anything else, it rhymes with tranquillity of those who hold hands of their power, certainly not with an effective solidity. In this regard, I would like to reply to my colleague, Mr Lucherini, who just highlighted the electoral system for the election of mayors. In fact, strong mayors have not always determined stable health and solidity administrations. Many municipalities, indeed, are in disarray and often even the mayors and presidents of other territorial institutions - they are in our eyes constantly - have shirked from the control of the representatives of the citizenship, making in reality man low of the public resources: I have had an example very close to my home, in the Municipality of Parma, that fortunately today has really changed towards, as they say. We all know that and it has already been mentioned several times in most of the speeches, that this electoral law, as it is, is unconstitutional: the Court first of all posed a problem of effective representation of popular sovereignty, when it reiterated the need for voters to choose their representatives and for the result of the ballot boxes not to be distorted by mechanisms such that, in fact, there are votes that have a different weight and votes. It is the electorate who must choose, not the parties: in Italy, I would like to remind you, it is not necessary to be a member of a political party in order to exercise the right to vote; in fact, it is in the ballot boxes that the individual must be able to choose to whom he or she legitimately entrusts his or her delegation. The very act of choice constitutes the popular sovereignty on which our Republic is founded, a value that we, unfortunately, are far from having realized, in fact, I have the impression that someone wants to move away from it more and more, as if annoyed by the interference with his aristocratic vision of the politéia. Politéia is a word that in Greek, not by chance, simultaneously means citizenship and form of the State and I would like to remind you that Greek is the language in which this reflection was born. The problem, however, is that, at least, in the aristocracy leading the people should be the áristoi, that is, those who, with their merits, recognized by the community, have proved to be the best and therefore the most worthy to govern. This passage, here, we do not see it automatically: we are rather faced with the prospect of an oligarchy, legitimized to the solitary realization, not mediated or shared, of its own idea of country, potentially waterproof to the concept that the surest way to achieve solid and valid goals in the medium and long term is the one that collects the broadest and transversal consensus possible. The very way in which we are called today to dismiss this electoral law reflects its philosophy: in tricks like the night amendments, aimed at killing not only the debate, but, even worse, the serene formulation of the vote in the face of proposals for corrections that do not like, I see that ancient flame of August and December last, when two fundamental texts for the life of the country, like that on the form of the State, have listened to the imperishable timing of those who put the demonstration of strength before the respect of the institutions (I am sorry that Minister Boschi is not present at this time, but I hope he can return, because I also have some other quotes for you). They forced nocturnal marathons and to vote blank texts, full of refusi: it is a path understandable only if those who want to command do not pose the problem of what it means to legislate, on the one hand, and govern, on the other, and think that in haste and surprise its strength lies, because the instruments of democracy replaced those of struggle, strife and combat, in which the opponent must be deceived and put to the ground. Sorry, because Zanda's hooded words this morning confirm the suspicion that even the lack of rapporteur in this House today is in fact instrumental in a rather swindled management of the normal process of building a standard. The same situation has also been seen in the examination of the stability law: a genuine expropriation of the Commission and, in fact, has not been assured by those who have to be able to speak with knowledge of the case. We have been faced with a number of amendments that have only been made visible this morning and I would like to quote a small passage from them, in order to make it clear to those who listen to us what is the vocabulary with which matters such as electoral law are dealt with. In one of them it is said: In paragraph 17, paragraph 83-a, paragraph 1, number 4, replace the last sentence by the following: In the case of each list with excess seats, it subtracts the seats in the colleges in which the seats were obtained with the smallest decimal parts of the allocation quotients and assigns them to the deficit lists in the colleges in which each of them has the largest decimal parts of the unused allocation quotients." This is what Manzoni would call the language of the deception of power. We are still at the time of the cries of poor Renzo, who never grappled. Yet an electoral law, the electoral law first of all, should be clear and simple, because the recipients are not the ones involved but those who will decide by this electoral law who wants to represent them. But the saddest thing is that in the discussion of an electoral law, that opponent we were talking about before, to be tricked and to be grounded, is the people of the voters, those who are there, those who will be there and above all, today, those who are not there and maybe will never be there again. A people that has become an opponent precisely because far away, perceived as unfaithful, difficult to involve and certainly deeply discontented. Faced with the glove thrown to the parties by the unstable electors and always fleeing, the answer stinks of fraud: the game of the combination of small electoral colleges, the blocked capilists, the multi-candidates, the instrumental definition of electoral geography are all tricks with which one would like to make the client believe that the goods are good while, on the contrary, the idea of organized politics is supported by the people is his enemy. I would particularly like to ask colleagues in my own region whether they really believe that the voters do not know. Look at what happened in Emilia-Romagna. Don't pretend everything's fine. Don't hide behind percentage values. Ask the new President Bonaccini if he is happy to have lost, in fact, 700,000 votes compared to his predecessor Errani. Moreover, do you seriously think that it is truly governable, as would be necessary today, a region in which at least 63 out of 100 citizens slammed the door in the face of those who claim to choose for them? What do you think these people will have, in fact, to the policies that will be imposed on them? They will do their utmost to avoid any obligation, feeling no part in the matter. Is this the governability we're talking about? Is this the governability we want? This is imperium, in the original sense of the term: a sort of militarization of representation aimed at the support of those who command, responding and obeying the imperator who enlisted her. Today we are being given a highly toxic compound, in which one ingredient is this electoral law, in which the people do not choose but ratify those appointed by the summit, the other is the reform of the Constitution, as you have proposed, on the contrary, as you have imposed on us. Yes, because the anti-democratic work is carried out when one imagines what the relationship between a Chamber of nominees could be, rigged in its composition by the play of the ballot and the prizes (which sanction the existence of grades A and B), and the Government, to which not only will give confidence but will also deliver the legislative process. I was not wrong when I said "Camera di nomi" (Camera of nominations), not to mention that Senate surplus you told us in August and on which you now humiliate the votes in Montecitorio as you humiliated them at Palazzo Madama: I was referring precisely to the Members as you drew them here today. Frankly, as I speak, I think that the most annoying thing for those who today support this electoral law is actually the electoral event itself, a boring trap, in the worst anti-democratic tradition that our country unfortunately has in its history. The real fact, then, is that a country is governable not if it has a strong winner at the close of the ballot box, but if it really believes in values that keep it united despite the diversity and only if it really reflects in its institutions. In fact, in everyday life - and it is good that we always remember it - everyone contributes to the common result, not only those who can say that they have voted who governs them, especially when the numbers between them are not so different or even the numbers of those who recognize themselves in those who govern are inferior to those of those who do not recognize you. Everyone competes, everyone has to compete. A pluralistic system ensures that everyone has the perception of having a little voice in the public res and the synthesis of the variety has more chance of survival than the affirmation of a unique thought, as the philosophy, literature and even genetics tell us. Finally, I would like to address another aspect which was touched on in the general debate, particularly today by President Chiti, which also directly involves Minister Boschi, who I still do not see in this House. The framework that is drawn up by the combined arrangement of electoral law and constitutional bill is also worrying with respect to the necessary confrontation within the European Union. In a seminar, which perhaps Mr Russo - although I do not see in this Chamber - and Mr Boschi will be able to recognise, having taken part in both, the rapporteurs have said it repeatedly and clearly: in today's European Union there is an imbalance between the intergovernmental dimension and supranational popular representation, with the addition of a monetary policy (now dominus, indeed dominates) which has dictated rules and constraints, managed, among other things, by bodies that have no electoral responsibility. In particular, I would like to quote a few words from a person who has spoken and certainly does not disagree with the proposal for constitutional reform put forward by the Government, with this Senate that would like to take us to Europe. I am referring to Sergio Fabbrini, who noted that this system leads to a verticalisation of the European decision-making process, which basically rewards the Prime Ministers and which, on the other hand, the role of the European Parliament, which is a direct expression of the will of the people, is very limited. Fabbrini has also said that in this situation the first problem that arises in domestic policy is how to control its Prime Minister and that we must certainly strengthen the European Parliament, but the first problem, beyond saving the existing one, is whether we have representative structures, a Parliament, able to control the decision-making verticalization process that has taken place in Europe. Here, in front of this we present ourselves with the profile of the Chamber of Deputies drawn from the combination of a new Constitution and this electoral law! If someone who still approves of the Senate's transformation as you drew it says this, then there really is reason to worry a lot. How do we think we have a representative House with all the tricks and calculations you've represented? I conclude by referring to what Senator Russo has just said, because the reforms really necessary and required are those pertaining to the concepts that I recalled at the beginning of my speech, namely the concepts that are really related to governability and related to the administrative machinery, to the efficiency of justice and to everything that serves to restore a vision of legality, to what serves to make productivity share in this country and to protect the specific production characteristics of Italy. Then I would also go quietly to talk about betrayal of my mandate, because to tell the truth, Senator Russo, I have never seen in the Democratic Party program the school of the enterprise, while I think there should have been an investment in education and an investment not of fried air, but of real resources! [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagliari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u42	Madam President, may I begin by giving a grateful thought to President Napolitano. The experience of these twenty years has told us, very clearly, that there is no democracy without governability. Experience has told us that the sovereignty of the people is realized only if the popular vote allows us to actually exercise the function of government. Otherwise it is partyocracy, consociativism not to say oligarchy. Is there democracy without governability? The growing weakness of politics, its subjection to other powers, tells us no, because power moves from representatives of the people to representatives of particular interests. The institutions remain only formally detainers of power, but ratify other people's decisions: a material constitution never again opposed, never again farther from the formal Constitution, from Article 1 of the Constitution itself. Well, this is the summary of the last twenty years of this country. This is the scenario on which electoral reform also opens up. I also say electoral reform because it is clear that the reformist effort that is being undertaken seeks to remedy this overall situation. Well, what is the need that our country has at this time and to which the electoral law must respond? The electoral law must respond to the need for a government on the evening of the elections. I believe that this is the main problem on which the whole issue is dealt with and to which I believe that the proposal that emerges from the amendments tabled gives a concrete and positive response. There is a system that allows us, for the evening of the possible ballot, to have a consolidated majority; that guarantees representation thanks to the threshold of 3%; that guarantees an adequate comparison and not a disproportion between parliamentary representation and the vote achieved, where it introduces a threshold of 40% to achieve the absolute majority of seats in the first round. There is a system that guarantees, even from the point of view of governability, the concrete possibility, surpassing the experience of these last twenty years, that you can have a winning list that can actually govern: it is the majority prize on the list that gets 40% or that wins at the ballot. These seem to me to be strong and robust premises, qualifying for the proposal that we are going to vote on and absolutely decisive in relation to the direction of consensus on this proposal. There is one issue that often emerges in this debate, which is that of the blocked capilists, therefore a quota of parliamentarians who are appointed by the parties and are almost certain of being elected. I believe that from this point of view, in the knowledge that there is a subjectivity and freedom of opinion, we must not hide the experience from which we come: both the experience of the Mattarellum and that of the Porcellum, because the Mattarellum is the law of the single colleges, but it is the law that allowed the leaders of the parties to appoint exactly all the representatives who were then elected in Parliament. [[Applause from Senator Moscardelli]] What else was it, if not the designation of the owners of the colleges? It is a mechanism on which one can agree or not, which can be assessed whether it responds to Article 49 of the Constitution or not, but that is a given. I don't remember him shouting at the betrayal of democracy when Mattarellum was approved. I believe that the experience of the Porcellum, which does not belong to the experience of the Democratic Party, is not a better experience from this point of view and can be of comfort. I would like to make it clear that the models considered to be democratic had in themselves the rule of the pre-determined designation of candidates by the parties. The system that is proposed to us has 100 capelistas. Is it a balanced report that of the 100 leaders compared to 630 Members who must be elected? I think it's a balanced relationship. Is it an unbalanced relationship from the point of view of internal representation to parties? This is a very delicate subject, if you want to reason objectively and of course leave the freedom of expression of your own opinions. It is a system that certainly has in itself an element of determination of the ruling class, but it is not a system that upsets the mechanism of election by citizens. Of course, it is a system that has a "defect": it has a strong impact on the logic of consociativism, which was proper to the political system and the parties. By means of this electoral law the time is certainly over when, however, electoral laws did not allow a certain majority and the government to a party. Perhaps a season that allowed within the parties those logics of consociativism that undermined the very ability of the parties to carry out the programs and to respond effectively to the program given to the citizens and for which they were elected to the direction of the country is closed. Having said that, I do not have the culture and I do not have the mental form to pretend that my truth is evangelical and to think that my opinion is the only one right. However, I have the claim that the capacity for dialogue and confrontation is bilateral. It seems to me that from this point of view there is still a strong space of confrontation which, I think and hope, can be usefully used among those who, however, have the capacity to recognize in the diversity of opinions not a different rate of democracy of one idea compared to another, but a different declination, in the wake of democracy, the concept of democracy and participation. History has taught us that the recipe is not one. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u43	Senator Torrisi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u44	(IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Senator Pizzetti, the real stake, after the recent electoral strike in the European and regional elections, is to make representative democracy vital, making the parties effective means of linking people, which is different from an occasional crowd, and institutions. In this sense, the reform of the electoral law can help if the political actors (the parties and associations that, in various ways, are present in the public debate) undertake to revitalize their internal life. In fact, the question of the reconstruction of politics in our country is an inescapable condition to make effective the institutional and electoral reform on which we are working. In order for this to happen, we need adequate action and means, but first of all, we need to respect the democratic principle in its form and substance and make decision-making transparent. Furthermore, if the distance in polls between the first and the other parties is very large, the electoral law should not be overly coercive as to how awards and access thresholds are designed. Parliament's mandate must be enhanced through a free election. This will strengthen the territorial settlement of the elected. If none of this is done, the vote of protest or the protest through the non-vote will continue to grow especially in the regions where there are no strong political figures of reference, with the result of electing a mediocre political class, unable and therefore harmful to the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the last 20 years have shown that if the structuring and simplification of the party system can be fostered by some institutional solutions, excessive forcing and stiffening only produce illusion, but not the achievement of the result. The tensions that have gone through politics have certainly not failed thanks to institutional reforms, especially electoral ones, which have tried to improve governance, so much so that it is easy to explain why, despite those interventions, we have known the crisis of governments that were also supported by very large majorities. While it is true that electoral laws do not directly produce political outcomes (because politics produces them), electoral laws, however, create incentives and disincentives, constraints and opportunities, which facilitate or hinder the various political actions and, as a result, increase or decrease the possibilities of certain political outcomes. All this should suggest prudence and push for the adoption of non-forced solutions, capable of stimulating the recomposition of the lines of fracture, without imposing, however, political choices that are incapable, to the test of the facts, of vitality. Among other things, the economic crisis and the social tensions associated with it should lead to a particular focus on the principle of national unity and to avoid potentially divided institutional options. We must avoid the serious risk for our democracy and for Parliament's credibility that changes to the key elements of our country's institutional structure will be forged by the reactivity of the political confrontation and the short-term party interest. It is therefore necessary, as has been pointed out during the institutional reform of the Senate, to recreate a constituent spirit. If we have not worked to build an inclusive perspective of general interest, how can the new Constitution or the new electoral law be recognised by all? Will it not bring within itself, as a sort of vice of origin, a deficit of common good? On the other hand, if we reflect, the electoral law only formally is not constitutional, since, in essence, it forges the State even more than many articles of the Charter. But even on the more prosaic front of the interests of the parties and their strategies, the electoral law weighs much more than the different positions on the organization of the order. That is why it makes no sense to repeat as a mantra that the plans of electoral reform and that of the Senate must remain distinct, because - instead - it is quite clear that the electoral reform we are dealing with concerns the House of Deputies and presupposes the overcoming of the perfect bicameralism. In coherence, therefore, there is a question of general principle, as a preliminary point, on the relationship between electoral reform and constitutional revision of the Senate, which poses particularly important legal problems, as Professor Luciani pointed out at the hearing in the Commission. The text we are examining provides for the majority prize only for the House and, if the only electoral system of the House were changed, it would not be justified because sine ratione. Majority or equivalent premium systems involve the reform of the perfect bicameralism, because, in a system in which trust is bicameral, it would be illogical to award a prize in one House when in the other it is not certain that you will have an identical majority. Such a system would be unconstitutional, as well as unreasonable and politically inconsistent. Hence a need, advanced by the New Centro-Popular Area Group, to provide for the safeguard clause. The safeguard clause must relate electoral reform to constitutional reform, establishing that the former applies only on condition that the latter has entered into force. It is therefore desirable that the next elections to the House of Deputies take place after the reform of the Senate is completed. In this sense Professor Passigli also expressed himself during the hearing, reaffirming that having thought of the so-called Italicum taking for granted the approval of a profound change in the competences of the Senate and its exit from the circuit of political confidence, does not eliminate the fact that the approval of a new electoral law, before proceeding to the constitutional revision, may perhaps respond to political reasons, but certainly not to a correct institutional logic that - instead - requires some contextuality between the two reforms. Of course, if the political circumstances required the use of elections before both are finally approved, it is likely that one of the objectives underlying both electoral reform and constitutional reform (i.e. governance) would be deeply compromised. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as all constitutionalists say and as I think, two are the objectives to which a good electoral system must respond: to ensure sufficient governance and to ensure adequate representation. Often, but not necessarily, the two objectives are at odds with each other, but the wisdom of constituents and legislators is measured precisely by their ability to make them live together. The amendments to the text approved by the House, suggested in its report by President Finocchiaro and incorporated in the amendments proposed by the majority group leaders, seem to me to be the result of a judgment completely compatible with the comments made. The raising of the threshold beyond which one is entitled to the majority prize and the maintenance of the institute of balloting, in the event that this threshold is not reached in the first round of voting, are a correct way of ensuring the governability of the system, without prejudice to that principle of reasonableness which the Constitutional Court has laid at the foundation of both the prize and any use of thresholds for these with the addition of a requirement that are equal for all and not differentiated, respecting Articles 49 and 67 of the Constitution, which impose the equality of votes and the integrity of the representative relationship. Once the stability of the Government has been ensured, Parliament must have the greatest number of political and cultural voices expressed by society, bearers of ideas and requests to be able to demonstrate also in the exercise of a right of stand that enriches the parliamentary debate. Similarly, limiting the award to the winning list alone, giving up building electoral coalitions ready to dissolve in the aftermath of the vote, is a correct way of ensuring governance, without favoring that party fragmentation due precisely - Mattarellum and Porcellum docent - to the need to build winning electoral coalitions. In addition, reducing the barrier threshold for access to the seats division, favouring representation without harming governability, would fully achieve that balance of constitutionally guaranteed values that any electoral law must pursue. The blocked lists, especially if long, in large circumscriptions are at odds with the very essence of the democratic representation relationship. There is no doubt that the most suitable means for the proper formation of political-parliamentary representation are the list vote with preference, on the one hand, or the single-member college on the other. The system proposed by President Finocchiaro of lists not blocked, with the possibility of expressing a preference, but with the blocked leader, in my humble opinion is not in line with the content of the Constitutional Court's judgment, because it creates a difference of treatment between candidates on the same list. It is therefore preferable, from a constitutional point of view, to extend preferences to all candidates on the lists. Finally - and I shall conclude, Madam President - a reform which is aware of the current difficulties of democracy should cover the wider horizon in which democracy is now moving and therefore move from a double rethinking of representation in its relationship with decision-making procedures and the participation of citizens. The principle of representation thus becomes a measure of the legitimacy of the institutions and of social action and should be fully taken into account when intervening on essential aspects of the constitutional order. The discussion on representative democracy cannot be eluded as a theoretical perditempo, because it was put at the centre of attention by the decision of the Constitutional Court that declared the illegality of the so-called Porcellum, indicating in the effectiveness of representation the necessary condition for the legitimacy of electoral laws. It would not be a difficult task, but it would require a culture similar to that of representative and participatory democracy in the Treaty of Lisbon, which is aware of the need to respect the balance between powers, which looks at technologies as instruments that, wisely used to improve citizens' initiatives, allow us to start journeys where democracy returns to stimulate its people. Madam President - and I shall conclude - in times characterized, as the philosopher and politician Carlo Galli says, by the displeasure of democracy, the evils of democracy are treated with more democracy, a concept I believe to be understood and shared together, but also a warning not to give in to simplifications and not to give in to the temptation to get rid of problems by impoverishing democracy and reducing it to an increasingly poor envelope in content. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Simeoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, today we are debating the new electoral law and it is not clear what happened to the old one. Its creator called it "Porcellum" clearly indicating the level of the laws that are proposed in Parliament. Then it was repealed by the Constitutional Court and turned into the Consultellum. Today we are here to discuss a law that may, most likely, be yet another unconstitutional rule. This makes me smile: this is the second time you ask us to vote in the dark, as if we were playing a poker game. To describe this paradoxical situation, I can think of a metaphor borrowed from the hospital camp, which is more familiar to me. In the emergency room we have the patient Italy, who arrives at the end of life, with serious problems and widespread infections. And what do those in charge of the E.R. do? They discuss the best way to elect the doctor who will have to treat the patient, who is dying in the meantime. Dear friends and colleagues, we all know the evil that is killing our country. We do not need to vote on yet another messy and useless electoral system. We know what the treatment to be administered is. Just play: it's time to bring out the patriotic heroism, forgotten in time. We are Italians: let us take back our identity. Let us return to making laws that make our fellow citizens proud of our work. We repair the relationship between citizens and Parliament that has been destroyed in previous years. Let me give you examples: the economic crisis has hit Italian families and the middle class hard. There are people who line up at Caritas and are forced to live in the car because they have lost work and home, to whom their children are also taken; people who are on the street without any assistance, who are abandoned by their relatives and who have spent Christmas in the cold, going to rumble in the garbage cans. And then there are people who, thanks to the crisis, got rich, who live quietly in luxury, who went to spend their holidays in the snow in Courmayeur. We can therefore say that the crisis has not all struck in the same way. So what are we waiting for to make real laws that bring social balance back? Already the first tensions occur because of the shameful phenomenon of houses occupied abusively, not only the popular ones, but also of property: do we really want to come back to the wars of the poor against the rich, as in the last century? If that's what you want, you'll find us ready for the barricades. We know that it is possible to make laws that can restore economic stability for the poorest, such as citizenship income. Why aren't these laws even calendarized? There is no will to restore social justice. We could make a thousand electoral laws, but nothing will ever change. Meanwhile, our country is in pitiful condition. The unemployment of young people has become dramatic: those who can escape, those who cannot pass from one precarious job to another, with wages to do envy to the Chinese. They add exodus, cassintegrates, those on the move, and those who have simply stopped seeking and give themselves up to discouragement. Merkel continues to ask for sacrifices and blood, while Germany marks the lowest unemployment rate in its history. We spend our days watching polls, making calculations, preparing political tactics, and we forgot to listen to the desperate cries of our citizens, who live in precariousness and insecurity and who are waiting for answers, which unfortunately seem never to arrive. To these citizens are added thousands and thousands of refugees, who come from other countries, who every day land on our coasts and who go to increase the ranks of those who are hungry. After two years I realized that this government has no idea how to solve the situation of wild immigration. No laws and no decrees have been put in place to try to stop the mafias that handle trafficking in human beings from North Africa and beyond. The reception and sorting system is ineffective, the other European countries snubbing and ridiculing us, the control systems are bland and insufficient and could allow access to terrorist cells. They are set up in a fraudulent way immense refugee camps, designed to vampirize Italian and European resources. Meanwhile we find ourselves in the streets masses of beggars, invalids, women engaged in prostitution and people exploited and forced to the underworld by their torturers. It seems that the state is powerless in the face of rampant crime. Perhaps because he is often conniving and involved in the same mechanisms that he should eradicate and we have seen him well with the scandals of Mafia Capitale. All we are talking about is tax reforms and cuts in services and jobs, while uneasiness and lawlessness are increasing. We are talking about electoral reform when social degradation and inequality are constantly increasing. Once, as a model of reference for Western states, the United States was taken, today it seems instead that our example is Mexico: there, in fact, organized crime intertwines its ties with the State, manages the trafficking of drugs and men. Also in that country there is a great traffic of desperate, undocumented Latin America trying to reach North America. For them Mexico is a land of transit, an obligatory route, like Italy for refugees who land in the South to go to Northern Europe. And not only that. Thanks to a conniving and powerless state, crime has risen by 165 percent. In order not to do the same, we must stop the social, political and environmental degradation that is advancing on the ashes of the crisis. A people left to themselves is a people without hope. Enough with the electoral legends, the reforms that bring us back to the sixties, the omnibus decrees and the provisions ad personam. As long as we sit in here, we are the representatives of the people and must show that we belong to a new generation of far-sighted politicians. The electoral law can wait. We must make courageous laws, that can instill the same feeling to our fellow citizens; make them feel that we are ready for everything to raise Italy's head and show the rest of the world that we are proud to be Italian. [[Applause from the Mixed and Mixed-MovX Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Sposetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u47	Madam President, representative of the Government, we are faced with a law that is discussed without a rapporteur, but it is not just any law: we are talking about how citizens will express their consent, how citizens participate in the democratic life of the country; a law that provides for the leaders appointed by a person, the secretary, without regulating the lives of parties. Who knows how to explain what a party is today in Italy? Who can explain how and where a party lives? What is the democracy of a party today in Italy? The distance between the electorate and the elected has now become a deep furrow and difficult to fill. A year ago Parliament took an act, in my opinion, unqualifiable: it deleted the law which provided for electoral refunds, and hence the livelihood of the parties, but it did not regulate the lives of the parties, that Article 49 which I would like to quote again: "All citizens have the right to organize themselves freely in parties in order to contribute democratically to determining national policy". In some moments, in these months, I have thought that we are making violence to the democracy of this country. No one can escape the thread that binds - of course, for reasons of time I mention only the number of articles - Article 1 with Articles 3, 48 and 49 of the Constitution. I have also read and heard in this House phrases such as 'finally the blackmail of small parties' ends. With the approval of the amendment signed by the Presidents of the majority groups, we delete the representation of movements and small parties. What does the barrier threshold have to do, according to the text before us, so high but also the barrier threshold at three percent when there is the majority premium? The barrier threshold is in proportional electoral systems but not in majority systems. Can you erase the blackmail? It's not like that. Blackmail will always be there and will be produced within the majority party. The night of the election you have to know who won. We must absolutely ensure that we are governable. As the Senate discusses, some observers have posed the problem not of governability but of the impotence of oppositions. I quote: "without competitive opposition there is no competitive democracy." I ask a question, above all, to the majority: what is the use of electoral law? I have given an answer, but it is made up of several objectives: how do we get out of the political crisis? How do we emerge from the crisis of representation and how do we stop the fall of representation? What antidote can we inject into a democratic system such as the Italian one, which is as necessary as it is in crisis? I insist and stress that we must encourage the participation of citizens, with an electoral law that favours them. There are no such objectives in the text before us: it lacks principles and also valuable messages, let me say that. In recent years the theme of political participation has been at the heart of a broad debate that, starting from the progressive decline in the electoral participation recorded, has concerned the various measures that can be taken to encourage citizens to participate in the political life of the country. I have before me two charts that I deliver to the documents and that concern the participation of voters in the general elections from 1979 to 2013: we go down from 90.6 percent in 1979 to 75% in 2013; in the European elections of 1979 it was 86 percent, in those of 2014 to 58 percent; the major and most equipped pollers give us today to 50%. The decline in participation in the vote went hand in hand with the decline in militancy in the parties and in the democratic life of the parties. Then why are we helpless with this data? How do we get the citizen back? How do we recover the citizens' desire to participate in the vote and in the militancy? I can't find - alas - in everything we've done in the last year a real and strong antidote. I am an incurable optimist and still fascinated by the assertion that democracy is a universal value and today we must add that freedom is a universal value. It is right to express your convictions in this House: it is right to vote if you are convinced, it is right not to vote if you are not convinced. This is the real strength of democracy and nothing else. In the coming days, I hope that this House will be able to find a synthesis between governance and participation. Let's look at Germany: on the evening of the elections we all knew, not only the Germans but the world public who had won, that is the CDU, because it wins those who arrive first. That evening, however, governability was not guaranteed to Germany, but the CDU knew that it could not govern alone. Then politics came into play: three months of negotiations, a government agreement, a referendum among SPD members. [[Applause from Senator De Petris]] Germany has a higher GDP than Italy and much lower unemployment. Every German citizen knows that he allocates EUR 5.60 to parties, their foundations and politics. However, Merkel and Gabriel do not ride the animal of anti-politics. The German people observed and shared for those three months; those who had won (Angela Merkel) did not make proclamations, exercised democracy, popular participation. I come back to a reasoning that the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had done in a beautiful article on January 25, 2014. I quote: "To properly assess the agreement on the electoral law, it is necessary to reason on the whole reform complex on which we are working: reform of bicameralism and law on the financing of parties." Do you remember saving 2 per thousand a year ago? Citizens choose how to give resources to their own party. Only 16,518 taxpayers made their choice. But are we so convinced that this country can withstand the impact of the return to the two preferences? After so many campaigns against parties and against politics, years of populism and demagogy, the result I have mentioned should advise us to go another way. This country, Madam President, needs a majority and a government, of course. This country needs a solid opposition that is vigilant, even conflicting with the government. My grief: I have not been able to grasp, in this year of discussion of constitutional reforms, a project. I didn't see a good architect at work. But since I am an incurable optimist, I still think that politics itself still has a nobility. And politics must work to get citizens involved, because that is the central point. We must make an effort in the coming days to ensure that the electoral law produces guaranteed participation (that is why I am a supporter of the lowering of the threshold), wide and plural, a constant and always transparent participation Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you very much for your affection, for your presence at this time in the Senate Chamber; I say this with affection. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u48	As agreed, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u51	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, 'Who Vespa eats apples!' mentioned a historic advertising slogan from Piaggio. It would be better to change with "Who wasp eats many bowls of rice", since today in Italy, in Pontedera, is produced very little! Piaggio, the historical brand of the industry, is currently undergoing a profound transformation which has led to a gradual and progressive relocation of production facilities abroad, especially in Southeast Asia. In the Pontedera plant, in the Province of Pisa, the company's policy was to resort to solidarity contracts. That is, it makes profit out and here you get the workers to pull the belt. Years ago the Piaggio gave a living to an entire city with its 12,000 workers, today less than 3,000 people are employed within the company and many are framed in the perspective of precariousness: an occupational tragedy. But not only that: in these days dangerous signals arrive, which assume the indisputable connotation of serious intimidation against the workers, already depressed of them. Piaggio sent them letters that recall the relationships of force in force at the end of the nineteenth century and, being unable to challenge any unlawful action to its workers, tries to subject them to a continuous and intolerable psychological pressure, threatening them to take measures that are not even mentioned precisely. The number of absences is contested by some, but, be careful, these are not unjustified or unmotivated absences, but absences motivated by conditions of illness certified by a doctor and therefore absolutely legitimate. Is it simply not okay for Piaggio to have his own worker resort to illness if he feels ill or asks for permission if he has the right to do so? Should the Piaggio di Pontedera be adapted to the customs adopted in industrial plants in the Far East? It would be the dream of many Italian industrialists, who see in the Chinese model their reference point: for this reason be quiet, because Renzi is thinking about it to please them. In a bureaucratic and deliberately vague language, the company writes in this letter: We would also point out that we will be forced to draw all the consequences of the lack of usefulness and/or interest for a performance characterized by such modes. In a nutshell, Piaggio slightly anticipates the tools that this Government with the jobs act will give to the industrialists. I remember that on 9 April 2014 I asked the Minister for Labour to ask for the actions in place to verify the actual need for solidarity contracts. After the question, we know for sure that on 5 June last the official of the territorial direction of the work of Pisa went to the company to gather information and that the report drawn up as a result of such access to the company was forwarded to the Minister of Labour. But today, after months of waiting, Minister Poletti is silent and does not answer us. As requested several times, we want to know the answers and solutions that we intend to adopt so that the workers of Piaggio, increasingly precarious, do not always have to live under occupational blackmail. In the meantime, another solidarity contract has been drawn up in Pontedera. I would remind you that the purpose and purpose of such employment contracts should be to protect employees in the face of crisis situations. Meanwhile, however, it is produced in South-East Asia, constantly importing vehicles and engines, to put them in the Italian and European market, leaving also without job the induced, the companies of Valdera, like for example the workshops Ristori of Montecalvoli, now to the gas barrel, with the orders dropped to a third. Finally, I would like to point out the unsolved issue of vertical part-time employment for a large number of workers who are further humiliated and vexed. The jobs act, in Pontedera, begins to understand what it is, but the 5 Star Movement does not fit us and reaffirms, as first thing in absolute, the right to work, dignity and income for every citizen of this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u52	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-376.ana.u53	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 15 January, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.48 p.m.
