ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 4 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u4	FALANGA (CRI). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u8	I ask you to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u10	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, this Senate has recently been affected by a debate on the composition of the various standing committees. With a decision taken by you, Mr President, in relation to the Rules of Procedure and the interpretation given in 2011 by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, I was prevented from participating, as a permanent member, in the proceedings of the 7th Commission, as a result then of senators in such a number that the Presidency noted that there could be imbalances and imbalances between majority and opposition in relation to the corresponding numbers in the House. I note that, in the meantime, Senator D'Onghia has been replaced today by Senator Davico. I also note that Senator Merloni has been added as an added representative and not replaced for the Autonomous Group, thus bringing the number of permanent members of the Commission to twenty-six, of which fifteen by majority and eleven by opposition. Since we are dealing with a very important measure for the Education Commission, which, among other things, has seen, just today, an expression of opinion not entirely favourable by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would like to understand, Mr President, what I must think now, I who have been excluded from the Education Commission, after this Commission has created a supermajority in a truly surprising proportion: 15 to 11, when at the time it was 14 to 12 and it was supposed that Senator Di Maggio might not correspond to the Government's intentions and that therefore in the Commission there would in fact be a parity of 13 to 13. I would ask you, before we move on to the vote on the amendments in the Commission, to resolve this issue, because at this point I wonder what might be the reflection outside this House and which could...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u11	Senator, may I interrupt? Clearly, the problem is for the utmost attention of the Presidency. That decision was valid at the time when it was taken and in the situation that you yourself represented, namely that of equality between majority and opposition; of course, this does not mean that, having changed the circumstances, a revaluation can be made. This is obvious, therefore, if the situation has changed today. I would also like to point out that there was nothing personal about it, because its Parent Company could certainly replace a member of the Commission with Senator Mussini. The problem, then, was this, and it was not personalized on Senator Mussini. I repeat, however, that, having changed the conditions, requests for allocation can be made again. MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Yeah, I wouldn't want to hear myself say at this point... president. Have your Parent Company make an application and you will have the answer that it is right that there should be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u12	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 859, 1357, 1378, 1484 and 1553, in the unified text proposed by the Commission. The rapporteur, Senator Cucca, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u13	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce that the complexity of the subject will require me to hand over the full text of the report so that it is annexed to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u14	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u15	CUCCA, rapporteur. Thank you, Mr President. However, some considerations need to be made. The draft law adopted as a unified text by the Justice Commission comes to the House after intensive discussion and close discussion on an extremely important issue on which a decision was expected virtually by everyone. As time is tyrant, I would like to thank immediately, regardless of the final outcome of the debate, all my colleagues from the 2nd Commission who have made an important contribution to the drafting of the text proposed to the House. I would also like to thank not in a way also the officials of the 2nd Commission, Dr Cavallucci and Dr Smurra, for the very high professionalism and competence with which they have supported the work of the Commission itself and, if I may, also for the patience with which they have endured my person. With its approval, the Senate introduces and regulates the crimes of street and nautical murder and personal road and nautical injuries and finally responds to an extremely widespread need for justice in public opinion, faced with the unceasing repetition of tragic episodes of road accidents caused mainly by people who put themselves in the driving of motor vehicles under the influence of alcoholic or narcotic substances, causing death or injury to people who were not guilty, who often happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. It also responds to those events relating to very recurrent cases of violation of the rules of the Road Code. In view of the fact that the system in force has been too often unable to offer appropriate sanctions to the gravity of the events, the need for a new sanctioning system has become widespread in the public opinion, on the one hand, to punish those responsible for such serious events with appropriate penalties, and also to prevent them from leading again shortly after the occurrence of the event. On the other hand, there has been a widespread need for the new system to also play an effective role of deterrent and prevention. In this respect, however, I would like to stress that, when the measure comes into force, the path cannot be considered to be concluded. In fact, it must be stressed here that there is still a need for adequate prevention and education that finally induces the citizen to understand that the rules dictated by the code of the road are not standards of series B but, indeed, they are standards most often dictated by the need to safeguard personal safety and others. In essence, it is a question of making everyone understand that driving a vehicle on a public road is tantamount to holding a weapon, whose reckless use can cause lethal effects, even if there is the utmost expertise in its use. In this sense, I also hope that, in addition to a widespread campaign of awareness and education, police control will be increased. It is also necessary to point out from the outset that several amendments have been tabled which provide for the deletion, or rather the deletion of the part of the text which provides for nautical murder. In fact, the original texts of the draft law provided only for the figure of the street murder, and only later was introduced that of the nautical murder. In the opinion of the undersigned, but it will then be the Assembly to decide the outcome of those amendments, the acceptance of the proposal of abolition of the part concerning the nautical one could be useful, since the Senate, in November 2014, had already approved the bill delegation for the reorganization of the code of the nautical from diporto, currently to the examination of the Chamber of Deputies. In this way, one could obtain the result of a more agile and slender measure and framed in the system of road traffic, regulated by the code of the road, always leaving, in order to obtain a correct systematic framing, that the figures of the nautical murder are previewed and regulated from the emanando code of the nautical one from diporto, evidently with the hope that it is approved in the shortest possible times, in such a way as to give also continuity to the path that we are tracing today. I shall not dwell on the content of the articles, except in a short way. On the substance, it should be stressed that Article 1 introduces the autonomous figure of the so-called road and nautical homicide, currently, always framed in the context of guilt, punished with imprisonment from eight to twelve years, when it is carried out by a person who is put to drive in alcoholic state, with an alcohol content exceeding 1.5 grams per litre, or psychophysical alteration resulting from the intake of narcotic substances or psychotropic substances. In the event that the murder has been caused by the commission of the imprudent conduct referred to in that article (because others are enucleated, with a lower penalty, punished from seven to ten years), in all these cases, when the murder has been caused by the commission of this conduct, but death is not the sole consequence of the action or omission of the agent, the penalty has decreased. The last paragraph of the new code article provides for an increase in the penalty in case the driver causes the death of more people. In such cases, the penalty which should be imposed for the most serious of the infringements committed shall apply, increased to three times, but with a maximum of eighteen years. Article 590- bis of the penal code, which also provides for an autonomous figure of personal road injuries and which is to speculate in Article 589-a, which introduces road murder. Penalty increases are also foreseen if the injuries are serious or serious. On the other hand, when the injuries are mild, the penalties are reduced. Discourse aside deserves the case of the escape, which is the one that most involves and interests the events we are dealing with, because very often the drivers of the vehicles involved are going to escape and leave. In this case, always so that the measure can explain a deterrent and preventive effect, it has been envisaged to introduce an aggravating circumstance in the case in which the driver takes the flight. Of course, the significant increase in the sentence against the person responsible for the victim who is identified after fleeing makes it more risky to escape. The new Article 590-c of the Criminal Code deals with the comparison and calculation of circumstances and establishes a prohibition of equivalence or prevalence of competitors mitigating circumstances that are different from those referred to in Articles 98 (made by a minor liable) and 114 of the Criminal Code (contribution of minimal importance of the competitor in the offence). Outside of these assumptions, no comparison is envisaged, therefore the prohibition of equivalence or prevalence of mitigating circumstances is established. It is also provided, with article 590-d, that to the sentence or to the sentence of plea it follows the revocation of the driving license and the nautical one. With regard to road and nautical homicide, the person concerned cannot obtain a new driving licence after it has been revoked, but because of the effect of rehabilitation, for example, the effect of the revocation has ceased: the measure states that the person concerned cannot obtain the driving licence again by supporting the new driving test before a time limit of 15 to 30 years has elapsed, depending on the specific cases and circumstances in which the event occurred. The same is true of the same system of withdrawing the licence and therefore of being unable to achieve it, with regard to personal road injuries: in this case, the term goes from five to twelve years. The issue of driving licences has been very much discussed and has opened a deep debate both in the Commission and in the media. There has been widespread talk of the so-called life sentence of the licence, the introduction of which had been requested by many. However, this measure could not have been reconciled with the principles of our system, which were also transposed by numerous judgments of the European Court, which do not allow definitive or more commonly perpetual measures: they would not pass to the scrutiny of constitutional legitimacy. Just think about this: the same life sentence, as the main penalty, is admitted only because it is expressly provided that, with the passage of time and the concomitant of other objective and subjective requirements, the condemned can still regain freedom. In the event that it deals with us, as I said, with the granting of rehabilitation, even the possible life sentence of the licence would cease its effects and the person concerned could obtain the new driving licence. In order to remedy these problems, the Commission preferred to establish the measure of the withdrawal of the licence, but it was not possible to take a new examination for its achievement before, as I have already said, a certain period of time (from fifteen to thirty years, in the case of road murder, and from five to twelve years in the case of serious or serious road injuries). In this way, an extremely rigorous system has been introduced, but above all, in order to avoid that those who are responsible for such serious facts, after a short period, can get back to driving a vehicle. Article 3 contains changes in the coordination of the penal code, while Article 4 of the draft law introduces changes in the matter of perital operations and the co-active collection of biological samples. This is another novelty, an entirely innovative principle introduced by the norm, which provides that those who refuse to undergo tests to establish the state of alcohol or driving under the effect of narcotic substances are co-actively subjected to biological sampling for the investigations. Of course, we respect the rights of defence through all the measures already provided for in our system of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In this way, however, we will have the opportunity to carry out the investigations and not to allow those responsible for these crimes to escape from them, thus rendering the rule in vain. Article 5 of the draft law introduces changes in the coordination of the Code of Criminal Procedure. First, paragraph 1 of point (a) inserts a further letter to Article 380 (2) of the Code of Procedure, providing for compulsory arrest in flagrante in the case of road homicide, while as regards the crime of road injury is provided for optional arrest. Subsequent provisions shall contain rules for coordination with the Road Code. In this respect, I would like to confirm that the need for an adequate revision of the rules of the road code has become apparent, which - I repeat - is already under discussion in the 8th Permanent Commission of the Senate. In this sense it will also be necessary to coordinate the new system that is being introduced into the penal code with the measure under consideration and the sanctioning assumptions provided for in the road code, even after the reform. In this legislation there is already a forecast for the road code, which states that, in the case of road murder, the driving licence is suspended by prefection of up to five years and that this period can also be doubled by up to ten, in the event of a non-final sentence, in order to avoid that - as unfortunately happens quite often - the person responsible for such serious matters can be put back to driving in a short time. Once the judgment has become final, the penalties and penalties I mentioned earlier will be imposed, i.e. the withdrawal of the licence and the impossibility of taking a new examination before a certain period of time has elapsed. Finally, Article 7 provides for the entry into force of the law on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal. Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are dealing with is extremely important, as I have already said, because it has been awaited for a long time and too many people have lost hope that it will ever be adopted. I therefore highlight the importance of this issue and the widespread sharing with which it has been dealt with: I still want to emphasise this aspect, because from all political forces in the Commission, although with different nuances, which are absolutely physiological, it was felt the need to give this whole subject a new framework and I believe that, with this measure, we are responding to the need for widespread justice. I therefore hope that the measure will be adopted as soon as possible. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u16	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u17	Mr President, this is an important moment in parliamentary life. It is one of those moments when Parliament comes into harmony with the country and opens up to the best demands, which have come from so many realities, from families and associations. Colleagues, the lack of prediction of the crime of street murder has caused immense pain in our society. There are so many broken lives that have never been adequately evaluated in terms of strict justice, with huge human and social costs and - why not? - even with very high cost. This is why a loud and intense cry of pain has been raised from many quarters, but it has also been accompanied by interesting design suggestions. It was good for Parliament to break the delays and not hide behind some clichés and some classical institutions of our criminal law, especially in the matter of guilt. It has been able to find, without disfiguring our code, the most modern and appropriate solutions to affirm that the street murder must find full citizenship within our penal and code system. I would like to thank the rapporteur and all the groups for the attention and work they have been working with in order to identify the best technical solutions and to converge with the associations and with the public who, in the meantime, were pressing for speedy progress. At last we have found the most suitable solutions, with the introduction in the penal code, to article 589- bis, of the new crime of street and nautical homicide. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, it will be possible to prevent that scandalous situation from being determined, for which up to now everyone killed someone for drunk driving, or even under the influence of drugs, or by making particularly dangerous, reckless or unworthy maneuvers, risked the minimum penalty of two years of imprisonment, so he did not see the prison in fact. This will no longer be possible. Ladies and gentlemen, the message to the citizens is very clear: those who are in a state of passivity, who are in a state of alteration for the use of narcotics or psychotropic substances must not drive. In the event that a person under these conditions is also driving and produces damage, causing serious injury or even the death of a person, he will be subjected to very strict rules: as regards specifically the hypothesis of manslaughter, the sentence of imprisonment is provided for from eight to twelve years. In the same way, those who are in a drunk state, with an alcohol content exceeding 1.5 grams per litre or those who have made an excessive use of alcohol must not drive: in the event that, by driving, injury or death of someone, they will be subjected to severe criminal sanctions. In the case of manslaughter, the sentence of imprisonment from eight to twelve years is also provided for in this case. Colleagues, with the rules we are examining we are also intervening against those who, professionally carrying out the transport of persons or things, are driving with an alcoholic state - with alcohol rates exceeding 0.8 grams per litre in this case - or in a condition of psychophysical alteration resulting from the use of narcotics or psychotropic substances. In this hypothesis the sentence of imprisonment for manslaughter goes from seven to ten years. As the rapporteur said just now, ladies and gentlemen, there has also been an intervention against those who cause damage to the lives of people, with serious injuries, through the use of nautical means. On this point there was a debate in the Commission which led to the inclusion of specific discipline in the text we are debating today in this House. Of course, there will be the possibility of better evaluating the issue, also intervening on some amendments: in fact, being a rewriting of the navigation code, it is necessary to link our work with what, especially in the Chamber, is being carried out, in order to avoid overlaps and to ensure that Parliament as a whole can give systematic and organicity to its intervention. It will therefore be put to the attention of Parliament - in this case of the Senate Chamber - the possibility of maintaining or putting aside in the measure under consideration the reference to nautical law. Colleagues, the interventions have also aimed at ensuring that there is finally a very serious response to the flight, that is to say to that cowardly attitude, but often also wanted and cynical of those who think that, through the escape, you can even or paradoxically have some benefits, given the nature of our code. This will no longer be possible: in fact, a combination has been planned to say clearly to those who flee, to those who do not attend and intervene, doing their duty as responsible citizen, who will be subject to severe penalties. He also spoke about ancillary penalties: I am referring, in particular, to the suspension of the licence, around which a very laborious debate took place. From this point of view, we also had to move in the light of the constitutional constraints that we have before us, without of course referring to the constitutional constraint in order to have a remissive attitude. The solution that has been found involves the withdrawal and the suspension of the license, with the need to undergo new exams in order to buy it back, with very long and rigorous times: you can arrive in some situations up to thirty years. Therefore, a very clear and clear message is also issued from this point of view. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the debate in the Senate which ended on 20 May, the ability to put together the five texts of the bill, the willingness to find the best solutions are a resource for this House because they allow us to finally reach the text's approval within a few hours and to pass on to the Chamber of Deputies a job well done, able to become a law as soon as possible and to be able to say that Parliament has come into harmony with society, has listened to the drama and pain of many families and clearly tells the Italians that it is turning the page because the guide must become responsible and those who do not submit to this responsibility will incur the rigour of the law, a strict, pointy and precise law, able to achieve the best results.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u18	Colleagues, we greet the students and students of the course of parliamentary law at the law department of the University of Siena who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u19	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Alex, June 2, 2011, Vicenza: died at the age of 24 because of another boy driving his car in a drunken and counterhand state. Within twenty-four hours, suffering an insurmountable pain, the mother commits suicide. The boy who caused the accident, to date, has been sentenced at first instance to three years and eight months and is in the process of appeal and has currently served only twenty days of house arrest. Eventually, perhaps, he suffered only the outrage of being led into handcuffs at the time of arrest. But this case, Alex's case, is nothing more than one of the thousand that were recorded between 2008 and 2012: out of 35,000 injuries caused by drivers in the drunken state or under the influence of drugs, 1,000 deaths and 35,000 injuries were recorded. After years, we come to this House to discuss the crime of street murder. Maybe a little late. We began to talk about it last summer in the Commission where hearings were also held, but the measure only now comes to the consideration of the Senate Chamber when, in our opinion, it could be dealt with before and, probably, with the same methodology. It's a delay that offends the victims of the road. Just think of the case of the Vicenza boy I have just mentioned; of course, the person responsible for Alex's death will not be sentenced as a result of the adoption of this measure. Episodes like this happen every day, very serious dramas that someone could liquidate saying that it was an inattention, or that maybe he drank a glass of beer or whiskey, but those glasses caused a death and it is difficult for family members, friends to understand, tolerate, forgive a fact like this. In Italy perhaps there has been a lack of a culture of road crime. In my profession as a lawyer I have witnessed trials for manslaughter murders with drunk driving and, believe me, the penalties currently are very mild. Indeed, with the measure under consideration, perhaps we can come to serious consequences, not only for the punitive taste, for pure desire for revenge: those who are accustomed to getting behind the wheel in a state of drunkenness or when they know they have drunk, must no longer do so. An absolute ban must be laid down so that the driver does not have to drink. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This may belong to other cultures. But in Italy? This phenomenon is considered almost permissive by us. Instead you must actually get to zero tolerance, which for us should also apply to ancillary penalties. In fact, the draft law currently adopted by the Commission, which has highly positive aspects, should, in our view, have provided for even greater punitive effects, particularly with regard to administrative sanctions. The Group of the North League has long argued that we should speak - even if terminology is not technical - of "prisoner's license." When someone gets drunk driving, he must know that if he causes a sinister from which a person's injury or death results, this someone must never drive in his life again. In the face of a rule like that, maybe someone thinks about it even before. We proposed it as an amendment. The current text certainly provides for a revocation of the licence but then the possibility to redo the license, perhaps fifteen, twenty or thirty years later, depending on the case. However, we believe that there must be a definitive 'no' against those who cause this kind of injury. He must no longer have a driver's license and must have the prospect of a prison sentence in front of him. The Group of the North League, especially in the field of justice, strongly argues that penalties must exist, be very strict and certain. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] We must create a system in which those who commit a crime must know what they are dealing with and the legislation must be applied with extreme rigour, with extreme seriousness and with extreme responsibility. Only then can we possibly see a better world. Let's remember, it's time to do recreation and drive at the same time. Let's remember: zero tolerance. We shall now see if there is any chance of further improvement in this text in the course of the amendment, but, gentlemen, it is a little too late for the Group of the North Legacy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u21	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure is intended to introduce new offences into the penal code: road murder, nautical murder, road injuries and nautical injuries. They are crimes that are committed every day in Italy in large quantities but, in general, not properly sanctioned. The current road code and the navigation code are clearly insufficient. The attention you have on these crimes is overwhelming: particularly serious incidents have great media emphasis but many others, just as worthy of attention and condemnation pass under silence. One tends to think so that they are inevitable situations, that destiny killed a person whose name we read distractedly in the newspaper. No, you don't. The responsibility lies directly with those who drive in a drunken state or after taking drugs. It's not fate, it's not the case to kill, it's men with their actions. These are the reasons why we are putting these new crimes in the penal code. When I look at the text here today, this examination leads me to conflicting considerations. On the one hand, this text should succeed in significantly sanctioning those who procure, driving a motor vehicle, death or injury to other road users, and in this sense should and could become a serious deterrent to widespread irresponsible driving styles that do not take due account of the possible and, ahinoi, highly probable consequences. From another point of view, however, this text makes some absolutely questionable choices and that I hope will be changed during the vote on the amendments. The identification of traffic homicide and road injuries indicates a clear specificity. This is already a step forward in combating irresponsible use, but perhaps it is better to say criminal, cars and motorbikes. Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs and driving at very high speeds are behaviors that, with high probability - I would say almost with certainty - can produce harmful consequences. However, the penalties provided for are defined at two different intervals: eight to twelve years rather than seven to ten. Differences that, from my point of view, have no reason to be. In fact, it is distinguished between a blood alcohol content of more than 1.5 grams per litre, sanctioned with a sentence of eight to twelve years, and that between 0.8 and 1.5 grams per litre, for which the penalty is between seven and ten years; in the first case, even if alternative rites were chosen, it would certainly arrive at a prison sentence, in the second case this is no longer certain. I repeat that I absolutely do not agree with this differentiation. I would remind you that the current road code prohibits driving with an alcohol content of more than 0.5 grams per litre and that already five years ago, under Law No 120 of 2010, action had been taken to prevent drunk driving. In fact, this law of 2010 made mandatory from November 13 of that year, for all the locals that administer alcohol, whose activity lasts beyond midnight, the exposure of the alcohol tables, that many of us will have happened to see. The tables must be posted at the entrance, inside and exit of the premises and the operators of the premises must keep at the disposal of the customers an instrument for the measurement of the alcohol content. They must also display at the entrance, inside and out of the rooms appropriate tables that reproduce the description of symptoms related to the different levels of alcohol concentration. Reading these tables shows that with an alcohol content between 0.9 and 1.5 grams per litre there is a feeling of disorientation and confusion. I wonder: do we really want those who drive with these symptoms to have a reduced sentence? In the same range between 0.9 and 1.5 grams per litre, the following symptoms can be seen - again according to this table -: impairment of judgment and self-control, socially inadequate behaviour, poorly articulated language, alteration of balance, impairment of vision, perception of shapes, colors and dimensions. It is, ultimately, the description of a person who is simply drunk and why should we grant a lower sentence if this person is driving and killing someone? I do not read the description of the symptoms of those who exceed the rate of 1.5, which is even more serious, but already this differentiation between the overcoming of 0.8 grams per litre and the exceeding of 1.5 grams per litre of the alcohol content I think completely out of place. Another aspect that I find highly critical is the failure to introduce driving distracted by the misuse of electronic equipment. It is now a widespread habit to drive and simultaneously send text messages, write on WhatsApp or surf the Internet using smartphones and tablets; this habit is very dangerous and has already caused many fatal accidents. It is a habit to fight and eradicate completely. On the other hand, there seems to be no widespread perception of the consequences that this type of guide can bring. It is absolutely necessary to introduce this in the text which we will approve not only for the sanctioning aspect, but also for its deterrent action. Turning to the positive aspects, however, the penalty for those who cause death by driving at a very high speed should well come. For example, those who drive over 100 kilometers per hour in an urban center are aware that they are endangering their lives and those of others: if the mourning event then happens, the penalty must be absolutely adequate. In the category of the shared aspects of this text there is certainly also the burden for those who flee from the site of the accident, thus failing to provide assistance. It is not right that those who, even though they have caused death for their irresponsible leadership, stop to assist should be punished in the same way as the coward who flees from the scene of the accident and hopes to escape from his responsibilities. I have left out another controversial issue so far: the introduction of nautical murder and nautical injuries. The different reality they refer to - sea, lakes and rivers instead of the road, just to give an example - motivates me to believe that a different treatment should be done for these situations; objective difficulties in detecting the speed of the boats, for example can affect the good intentions of a text referring to these new crimes. In conclusion, with this text, I believe that two objectives can be achieved: to properly sanction those who kill or hurt by voluntarily carrying out execrabili and criminogenic behaviors and to act as a deterrent so that these behaviors do not recur. Both objectives have an educational effect: in the first case against the guilty person, through the criminal penalty and the possible detention penalty, in the second case against all drivers, who must become aware and aware of the responsibility they take while driving. [[Applause from Senator Vacciano]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Borioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, I will comment on this measure and will spend some schematic and point-by-point reflections. The first reflection is as follows. I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Commission for an important piece of work which today gives the House a measure which, as has been mentioned, is very much awaited. It is much awaited because it corresponds to a demand for justice around a case that for too many years has caused many deaths and many victims in this country, without obtaining an adequate sanction that could correspond to this claim for compensation, even moral ones, by families. It is true, as someone has said, that, in some respects, today we can say that this measure comes even too late, when the count of the victims and the dead is now very, very substantial. However - let me say this to the House - it is regrettable that this Government and this legislature finally put an end to this serious vulnus, where other legislators and other governments that have had much more time to provide had not done so yet. I believe that, even in this House, we need clarity in telling the citizens how things are going and how things have been done. The second point I would like to make concerns the appreciation of the balance of the text that is being presented to the House today. We know that there are still amendments concerning the deletion of the part it has to do with the nautical code. Of course, I do not speak directly on this issue, but I think that some of the comments that the rapporteur has made are important and, if the House wishes to take this into account, I believe that it will still be possible, when the nautical code is finally adopted, to remove this part from the text we are debating today. However, as I said, I want to praise and appreciate the point of balance that this text has reached, because, just as it is important to record that this measure responds to a demand for justice that rises from Italian society and families, in the same way, it is not easy when it legislates, starting also from understandable motions of emotion and subsequent involvement, to hold a point of balance that does not make the legislation overflow towards arrivals that, to some extent, challenge the fundamental pillars of our right, which, together with the severity of sanctions, are naturally represented also by the attempt to recover people. Here is the last point, which I think is very important and which has introduced Senator Cucca in his report, on which I would like to conclude my speech. We are about to move on - I think we should do this quickly (I say this as rapporteur for that measure in the Commission) - to the examination of the new road code, which, as we know, has already been approved in the other branch of Parliament. It is clear, Mr President and ladies and gentlemen, that if we want this important new legislation (which tightens the penalties and accompanies them with very important ancillary penalties) to produce - as I hope and as happened, for example, with the anti-smoking legislation in public places - sanctions, but also positive practices and behaviours, we cannot entrust the answer only to the sacrosanct and important part of the application of the penalty and the penal code in which these crimes are introduced today. If we do not want to transform the responsibility that we are now experiencing into irresponsibility in the implementation of a different behaviour when driving, it is very important that the road code should contextualize those measures that have to do with the reorganization of the road space, starting with the urban environment, which is the one where, moreover, fatal accidents occur most frequently caused by behavior such as those that the changes contained in the legislation in question introduce. In the same way, more attention must be paid - perhaps this is a limit in the text of the road code which has been dismissed by the House of Deputies today - to the whole part concerning the training of people (especially young people, newcomers) in driving practice. I say this because I believe that, in addition to the important work we are doing today, when we are dealing with this measure in this House, which introduces severe sanctions - sacrosanctly severe - against those responsible for death and serious injuries to the lives of others in an irresponsible way, it is equally important that we also know how to act in the field of culture, training and prevention, because that is the aim. I believe that, first of all, the rapporteur, the representative of the Government and all of us hope that the introduction of this new legislation will produce the least possible number of people sentenced, forced to prison and to withdraw their driving licences for these behaviours, not because they are not punished when they give rise to such harmful behaviour, but because the number of those who give rise to these behaviours is contained. I therefore hope that we can proceed in this direction and I believe that I can renew, in this sense, my absolute appreciation for the work that the Commission, the rapporteur and the Government have done in this context. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u25	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u26	Madam President, I have to say to the Undersecretary Ferri, representative of the Government in this House, that from now on, as far as I am concerned, there is a reasoned opposition, but I would also say moderate, in the sense of being able to share, when they are acceptable, those legislative measures that come to us from the majority or from the Government. By this I mean that there are so many ways of opposing it; I think I want to go along the path of an opposition that is technical, that is reasoned, that is motivated and that is also for a certain collaborative verse, to correct some mistakes that sometimes are made in laying down a law that affects the lives and the daily lives of citizens. I must thank Senator Cucca, rapporteur for the measure, who started with a first original text that presented a series of inconsistencies and anomalies; I must acknowledge that I had been able to accept, with a great sense of responsibility, an amendment at my first signature, which, beginning with a correct doctrinal arrangement of the original measure and then intervening on other issues, somehow managed to bring out a more or less coherent text. However, there have been some errors, and I regret this (I shall now list some of them), on which the Constitutional Court will certainly intervene, as it has already done in the case of other measures. I recall, for example, the law of Cirielli and the issue of the obligation to the judge aimed at preventing the comparison between aggravating circumstances and mitigating circumstances; this constraint was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. I believe that the judges of the Court will have to resolve this error also in the case of this measure, because it has been committed again. All in all, I have to say that it is widespread in the public opinion, as among road safety and law professionals, the idea of an inadequacy of the criminal rules in force in the matter of manslaughter when deriving from driving conducts. Beyond the overall phenomenon of road accidents, what arouses the greatest alarm is the growth of serious accidents with deaths and injuries caused by drivers who are drunk or under the influence of narcotics and psychotropic substances. There are of course sociological causes (dissemination of alcohol consumption among young people, growth of the presence of immigrants often driven by alcohol abuse from the social and psychological distress in which they live) which must ask us about the tools for the dissemination of road education and the fight against addiction. However, it is also necessary to rethink the repressive instruments with a view to more effective prevention, both general and special. The most critical point of the current rule, namely Article 589 of the penal code, is the fact that the person responsible is punished in all cases of murder resulting from the violation of behavioral rules established by the road code solely on the assumption, therefore, that the fatal event is never actually wanted by the driver. Well, to provide a strong sanction for those who are driving a drunken car or after taking narcotics makes us move away from the field of guilt and brings us closer to that of dole and therefore of arson. For the case of road murder we can never come to affirm the hypothesis of an arson, and therefore of a voluntary murder, but, with very strong sanctioning effects, we can approach to educate those who drive under certain conditions, so that he understands that with that behavior it is true that he does not want the death event, but it is also true that he wants to place himself in a condition and in a situation so that the death event can happen. It is in this game of approach the central point of the norm. I, for the truth, had presented a bill - Senator Cucca will remember - that intervened, rather than on article 589, on article 586 of the penal code. I must say that my construction - which I continue to believe to be the most correct and valid - has also been shared by other colleagues. I am referring, for example, to Senator Stefani and other colleagues of the North League. There was, that is, those who intended to intervene on Article 586 of the penal code and not on the 589, that is, on the death event as a consequence of another crime. This has not been accepted and I believe that this has been a technical error, but the rule, as dismissed, in any case achieves the objective of sanctioning more effectively those who are driving a vehicle under the conditions I have just indicated. Senator Cucca, there is some inconsistency in the provision. It was foreseen that the same penalty for those driving under the influence of drugs would also apply to those who refuse to undergo the alcohol test: this prediction has been eliminated. In fact, on this point I am now expressing my disagreement. In fact, by comparing this case with that in the matter of disowning or recognition of paternity, it has always been affirmed that the refusal to submit to the DNA test constitutes proof of paternity, unless there are justified reasons, as the norm in that case states. Well, even in this case the same situation could be repeated, that is to say to make sure that if, without justified reason, the subject refuses to undergo the alcohol test, practically this refusal could be a concrete proof of his guilt. All the rules of the road code are strengthened and we get to the point - on this I appeal to the Undersecretary, because he is a magistrate - to foresee in the draft law under consideration something that is already foreseen as a crime in our code. How do two rules relating to the same criminal case make provision for two different sanctions? Mr Sfafe Secretary, I am referring to the omission of aid, which is already provided for in Article 189 of the Road Code as a criminal act. In this case we say that those who fail to help, that is, those who leave (it is the same thing in point of substance) after having caused the accident without stopping incurs the further penalty. Well, either Article 189 of the Road Code is to be repealed, or in some way it is necessary to find an appropriate link between the two rules. I believe that the judges will solve the problem in the application of the rule, but it is clear that they will do so either by applying one or the other; there can be no cumulation of penalties provided for by two rules for the same criminal case. This is one of the points. There is another subject, and here too I appeal to the experience, professionalism and preparation of the Undersecretary. Well, as I said earlier, with regard to the comparison between aggravating and mitigating circumstances, at a time when one rule states that this kind of equivalence cannot be carried out, a bond is created with the judge, who no longer has the discretion to evaluate the various circumstances and possibly compare them with each other. In this regard I remind you and remind myself that the Constitutional Court has already intervened, in particular with the judgment n. 105 of 2014, which, albeit in other matters (it speaks of prescription and ex-Cirielli law), has censored the legislator by hitting him with the unconstitutionality of the norm where it has provided that the judge was prevented from making a comparison between aggravating and mitigating circumstances. We will still disturb the Court for that reason. Turning to the administrative penalty profile, ladies and gentlemen, we have been talking about 20 years. I have just heard the representative of the North League, Mr Stefani, say that twenty years is not enough for the person involved in a road accident from which a death has been achieved in order to be rehabilitated. Senator Stefani was talking about a license lifer. You see, I understand you, because you speak on the emotional wave of a society that, in these days, in the last months and in the last few years, speaks of street murder to be sanctioned with ten, twenty or thirty years of imprisonment. Gentlemen, overdoing isn't good. We have equated the penalties here, although I recognise that an intervention was necessary that would make them more effective, considering that previously, after the arrest, the persons responsible for the accident were immediately released. Therefore, there was a need for a stiffening of the penalties, but not to arrive at penalties comparable to those provided for extortion and for serious crimes. We'll soon realize what we're doing. It will take a few years to understand that for crimes against the public administration we have foreseen penalties that are exaggerated, but in a framework of criminal law and criminal code that is no longer balanced: theft in the apartment is punished far less than a car accident, without that even causing death. Well, theft in the apartment is a violence that the citizen suffers in his own home, and in Northern Italy these are cases that occur daily. We are losing sight of an organic arrangement of our code: we have done it with the prescription for corruption offences; we have done it for crimes against the public administration; today we are doing it for the so-called street murder. This term for truth is also new, but completely useless because, no matter how close we are to voluntary murder, let us not lose sight of the fact that we are always in the midst of manslaughter. We already had an article which provided for manslaughter: it was simply enough, for these reasons, to increase the penalties, but to increase them appropriately. At first, as Senator Cucca certainly remembers, in the text there was not even a distinction between the alcohol content up to 0.80 and up to 1.5, where in the code of the road this forecast was present. Well, we were preparing a rule that presented two different solutions on the basis of the same hypothesis. I must admit, and for this reason I thanked him, that on this point Senator Cucca listened to me and shared the need to distinguish the two cases. From the point of view of the effects, it is scientifically proven that having an alcohol content of 0,5, 0,6 or 0,7 for some people accustomed to the use of alcohol, or who drink it normally, does not cause the lucidity and the ability to drive a vehicle to be lost. If the accident occurs, then, this may have occurred because of other causes, and not because of the alcohol content of 0.6 or 0.7. The rapporteurs accepted my remarks in part, and made a distinction by providing for two different penalties for the two different rates. In conclusion, it is better to do something imperfect than nothing: I will then say it in an explanation of vote, but in advance we will vote on this measure and we will see the amendments. My amendments have inexplicably disappeared, having gone from one group to another (which I did not appreciate from the offices), in any case, I will make some amendments tabled by other senators, I will also speak on these and in advance that in an explanation of vote our Group will vote in favour of the measure, hoping that it can be improved during the debate and the examination of the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u27	Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u28	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the sad facts of which we are too often aware, concerning fatal accidents on the road, often caused by drivers under the influence of narcotic substances or alcoholic substances, leave us all deeply outraged by the unwise and unknowing use of vehicles, which cause the death of innocent men. It is certainly a subject that needs careful reflections, which must lead to the introduction of devices that limit as much as possible episodes of this type. I would like to express my positive thoughts on the proposal for a law that wants to introduce a new crime, that of road murder. The intention would be to introduce a greater deterrent for those driving a vehicle by violating the rules of the road code through the tightening of penalties and the creation of a case of autonomous murder, compared to that governed by Articles 575 and 589 of the penal code. It is good to specify that the matter is already regulated in our order and, as often happens in Italy, it would be enough only to apply the existing laws, without the need to legislate further, generating even more confusion. In fact, the current penal code provides that the manslaughter committed in violation of the highway code is punished with the sentence of imprisonment from two to seven years. If the fact is committed in breach of the rules on road traffic rules by persons who are in a state of alcohol or who are under the influence of narcotic drugs, the sentence of imprisonment shall apply from three to ten years. These are essentially fair penalties, also in view of the fact that aggravated manslaughter can lead to a sentence of up to twelve years imprisonment. In the event that the judge found that the death event was caused by a person who, even if he did not want to cause it, if it was represented as a possible consequence of his conduct and, instead of blocking his action, in view of this eventuality, put it in place accepting the risk that the frightened event would occur, the murder would be to all intents and wrongs, existence of the psychological element of the eventual malice. It is therefore clear that, in cases where a person does not comply with speed limits, accepting the risk of causing a road accident from which a man's death may result, the judge who considers the subjective element of the eventual dole to exist could - and should - inflict a conviction for arson murder. Unfortunately, although in some more serious cases the judges of merit have considered that they must recognize the extremes of the voluntary murder, from the point of view of the eventual intent, the Cassation never considers configurable the arson murder, always applying the institute of conscious guilt. It would have been desirable for the judiciary to pay greater attention to road crime and for the legislation already in force in our penal code to be properly applied, which provides all the means to apply a high penalty to road pirates and presents no legal gap in this area. The failure to apply existing laws, as in most cases, determines the necessary introduction of a new murder hypothesis, the road one, which involves a considerable tightening of penalties. Despite the determination of the existence of the dole or guilt is the responsibility of the judge and our order already provides the space to condemn for arson killing those who do not comply with the norms of law, the introduction of higher penalties becomes fundamental in order to punish those who cause death by driving vehicles in a reckless way. However, it must not be forgotten that the increase in penalties does not erase a crime, nor does it often increase its deterrent effect; it takes much more: civic education, road education and greater control over oneself. More preventive action must be taken, first and foremost to raise awareness of the public and, above all, of young people who decide to drive in a state of drunkenness or under the influence of drugs. A greater number of police forces should also be introduced in the street, as well as more speed cameras and cameras. The presence of police forces, in fact, in addition to representing itself a strong deterrent for drivers, also leads to greater certainty of the application of the rules of law. The simple increase in penalties with the aim of preventing the occurrence of the crime and creating a more effective deterrent may prove completely useless if it is not accompanied by strict control on the territory through the application of immediate and effective sanctions by the police, which would be the most effective deterrent and would result in a real reduction of accidents. Finally, I would like to express my support for the decision to provide for an attack on those fleeing, more severely punishing morally unacceptable behavior. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u29	A representation of students from the Faculty of Economics of the Free University of Bolzano and a representation of students from the Faculty of Law of the University of Innsbruck, who are visiting the Senate, are present in the Chamber. We welcome them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u30	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Undersecretary Ferri, the measure we are considering today is intended to fill a regulatory vacuum and respond to an increasingly urgent need for security and justice felt by our fellow citizens. This is the last tragic event in the streets of the capital. I do not want to use it to exploit or ignite a new controversy, which would only hurt, once again, our citizens and the people who have suffered this terrible mourning personally, but I would just like to stress that the occasion we have today is very important to show that this Parliament can respond to the demands of civil society and to prove that we, sitting in this House, can actually represent the interests of the nation and protect the rights of Italians. However, if the objective of effectively punishing those who cause death on our roads is now a little closer, we must recognize that we should have acted more quickly. We should have given faster answers to issues which, like road safety, cause great social alarm. Only by the way, the legislative proposal that bears my signature dates back two years ago. Without a doubt we come to form a sanctioning discipline of the murders that are committed on the streets with too many years of delay compared to the other great European countries. Many incidents of road crime, which unfortunately continue to occur in our cities, could have been sanctioned with the severity they deserved, ensuring that the people involved and the families of the victims had swift and effective justice. In other words, we are faced with a measure that, despite coming very late, is certainly a fundamental step for our country to reach European standards of protection of the rights of its citizens in the field of road safety. With this proposal, the judge will finally be able to weigh, with a fair criterion of proportionality, the goods that are put at risk - life and physical integrity - and the psychological attitude of the perpetrators of these crimes. It immediately seemed fundamental, not only to foresee severe penalties, but also to frame the psychological attitude of those who, aware of the danger of their conduct, accept the risk in total contempt of the almost inevitable consequences. In recent years, some judges, overcoming the interpretations of crime merely manslaughter, have given importance to the conduct of those who, in the presence of particular objective assumptions - such as the state of drunkenness or the alteration from narcotic substances - have nevertheless placed themselves at the wheel of a vehicle and have agreed to endanger the supreme good of their lives and, above all, of the life of others. Now it is time to recognize also at the regulatory level that these criminal acts are true crimes, even more serious than those of man, which by definition are characterized by a much lower level of social disvalue. Another factor that has led to the codification of road crimes is the economic cost to the community of the consequences of these deprecable driving behaviours: road accidents produce, in fact, costs for about 2.6 percent of the Italian gross domestic product. In order to take a brief look at the substance of the Commission's proposal, I would like to stress the presence of provisions which seem to go in a fair and effective direction of sanctions. Those who drive under the influence of alcohol or drugs and cause the death of one or more people may be sentenced to imprisonment from eight to ten years; if personal injury is caused, imprisonment may last from two to four years. Particularly positive, moreover, appear the different modulations of penalty according to the level of alcohol recorded in those who cause the road accident, variations that are inspired by the logic of punishing more severely those who make themselves author of behaviours that compromise to a greater extent the abilities of safe driving. In addition, a driving licence is to be withdrawn in case of road murder for a period which, in the most serious cases, may be up to thirty years, while in the case of serious or serious injuries the withdrawal may last up to twelve years. In the latter cases, however, more could and should have been done. As we have unfortunately been used to seeing in recent months, the majority of government often takes a theoretically acceptable approach on specific topics without then having the courage to translate into concrete norms the good intentions imagined. On this occasion too much shyness can be seen in the provision of exemplary sanctions: it would be appropriate to take the opportunity to introduce the most severe ancillary penalty for the most serious cases, providing, in the event of a specific relapse of those who have already been convicted of road murder, the withdrawal of the driving licence indefinitely, the so-called life sentence of the licence. A similar option is the one currently under consideration in the House in the draft reform of the road code: that is, those who make themselves the author of a road homicide will no longer be able to obtain a new licence, after having immediately revoked their own and will never be able to obtain it, if they were not already in possession of it. The wording of the House's text lacks the pre-condition that the offence should be repeated for the permanent withdrawal of the licence, which is required by the amendments proposed by my Group in this House. In order to complete the sanctioning framework, the measure provides that prison sentences should also be applied in the presence of particularly dangerous and contemptuous driving behaviours of the safety of others. It is subject to imprisonment, in fact, who causes the death of a person for excess speed (even in water with boats, very delicate subject), for a passage with red traffic light, for driving against the hand or for an overtaking or a reversal in points of prohibition. In conclusion, with this measure we will be able to respond to that demand for justice which has come strong and determined even during the hearings of the Commission Justice and which is based on the simple premise of civil coexistence: those who err must pay. At present, our legal system does not contain the appropriate instruments so that the indispensable need to punish those who irresponsibly cause the death of other leading people can be adequately met. To date, the State has given the impression that it is powerless, deaf and indifferent to the scourge of road deaths. Today we are taking a first and significant step forward. Tomorrow we must not stop, but continue with expedition to translate these norms into law as soon as possible. To take this step is necessary and is not attributable to one political faction or another: it belongs to us all as human beings. Personally I am tired of witnessing heartbreaking scenes in which a mother, father, husband or wife loses their loved ones and I am tired above all of the fact that a State like our Italy cannot yet give answers and certainties. When you lose a loved one above all in an atrocious and sometimes incomprehensible way, as it can be in an automobile accident caused by the indolence and superficiality of some people, I would like my state not to make me feel even more alone. Of course, no law or bill will be able to bring a person back to life; no legislative act can alleviate the pain of a broken life; nothing can make us resign to the idea of having lost a loved one of ours forever, but a country and its citizens must have the certainty that the State, in particular its own Government, succeeds in being just and striking those who so brutally, with senseless actions, destroyed, wounded and killed another human being. [[Applause from Senator Scoma.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u32	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u33	Madam President, Senators, Senators, today we are about to discuss and finally adopt a much awaited bill; a first important sign of political and institutional compensation to the families of too many road murder victims, unfortunately, who have remained unpunished in time. There have been numerous deaths and dangerous driving injuries in recent days alone. Too often the driver was positive for the alcohol test or had taken drugs. It is up to the magistrates, the law enforcement agencies and lawyers to prosecute the guilty and apply the right sanctions and penalties; but it is up to us to make good laws that allow citizens to have more confidence in institutions, rules and justice. 18.04 p.m. (Following Mr Pezzopane). I participated a few days ago in a torchlight in Celano, near L'Aquila, in Abruzzo. There were thousands of people. We said hello to a 15-year-old boy, Marco Zaurrini, overwhelmed on the scooter in the street between Celano and Avezzano, from a man's car to driving without a driver's license, who had taken alcohol and drugs: a relapse. After the accident, he escaped and left that little body on the road. There is a mother, therefore, who does not see a son coming home; there is a brother who can no longer play ball; there is a father who does not give peace to think that a man with a record may have stolen his son forever. There is an entire community that invokes justice, demands truth and asks the State to be a state. Marco's story is similar to a thousand others, unfortunately. Same and always different stories. Marco's family risks experiencing the same torment as too many other families. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that after the adoption in the Senate, this bill will quickly pass to the House and that the law we are debating today will be implemented immediately. I have followed other dramatic stories, I have followed the life and work of some important associations of family members of the victims who in 2011, faced with an inertia of the state, also pushed to present a bill of popular initiative that demanded the crime of street murder. I have also presented here in the Senate, with my colleague Mr Moscardelli and others, a proposal and, in place of my colleague Mr Casson, I had the precious opportunity, for which I thank the Democratic Party - to follow the debate in the Committee on Justice. I would therefore like to thank all my colleagues in the Commission, Mr Palma, Mr Cucca and, of course, Mr Ferri and the Government, because we are all winning a small, great battle of civilisation. The main points demanded by the associations are all there and therefore we must also thank those associations, those family members, those people who, even in suffering, have still shown confidence in the State and in the institutions. And well done the President of the Council Renzi to commit to the new law aimed at establishing the crime of road murder. This bill amends the penal code, introducing the crime of street and nautical murder and the crime of personal injury for those who are driving with a certain alcohol content or altered by drugs. An increase in penalty is expected if the driver escapes and is expected to stop mandatory in flagency. In short, the conduct of those who drive under the influence of alcohol is more severely punished with appropriate penalties, but sometimes even insufficient. Anyone who gets in a drunk or drugged car is as if he had a gun in his hand with a shot in the barrel; he can kill. The penalties must therefore be fair and proportionate to the damage and inevitable consequences, unfortunately, that those who take those substances can produce once they are put to drive the vehicle. The draft law also provides for a sort of almost life imprisonment of the licence, with a revocation from fifteen to thirty years. And also severe penalties, from seven to ten years for objectively dangerous driving ducts, excessive speed, counterhand and other violations of the road code. The pains are even harder if the murder is multiple. Certainly a law alone will not suffice, because becoming responsible for one's actions when leading seems to be an impossible, difficult and long process for some, almost as if selfishness and narcissism prevail over respect for the life of others. But the law is still important to restore a balance between the seriousness of the crime - very serious, other than extortion, when a human life is broken - and the penalty and between collective responsibility and personal choices of alcohol and drugs. It is in fact shocking to have to see that in Italy no victim of the irresponsibility of others has so far received justice. It is therefore necessary to punish criminal behavior, to punish the guilty arrogance of those who take the lead knowing that they are armed. It is a first step, a sense of progress and civilization, which must certainly be accompanied by an increase in road controls, education and prevention campaigns, special programmes for young people, greater maintenance of roads and infrastructure, and improvement of technologies. No law will return Marco to us and above all to his family, just as the many, too many victims of road murder will not be returned, but a good law will help to do justice and restore trust in the institutions. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u34	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u35	Mr President, the North League is in favour of introducing the crime of street murder. Road murders have now taken on intolerable proportions and it is Parliament's duty to finally respond to the families of the victims in relation to legislation, the current one, which is now completely inadequate. It is also our duty to take measures that are a real and effective deterrent to the execution of such murders. Some European countries, and not only European countries, have taken strict measures and in these countries mortality linked to these crimes is lower. That is a fact. In a recent past, some rules of our legislation have tried to increase the penalties, but the results have been absolutely inadequate and inadequate and the penalties are still inadequate today compared to the gravity of the crimes that continue to occur continuously on our roads. It is therefore necessary to eliminate the interpretative discretion of judges, legal uncertainty and unequal treatment in judgments. A fair and certain response is needed. So raising penalties in such a way that they can lead to imprisonment is certainly not a decision to be taken lightly, but we have a duty to protect the lives and safety of our fellow citizens. It must be understood that irresponsible driving is a very serious act, an act of total indifference to the value of the life of others. We must intervene out of respect for the victims and their families. Will anyone be deprived of their individual freedom with imprisonment? Perhaps it will happen, but many, too many innocent people have been deprived without any fault of their lives; many, too many citizens have lost their children, their parents, their relatives forever. It is our duty to reduce the number of innocent victims caused by the irresponsible behaviour of some drivers. Today you can kill and not pay adequately for such a serious crime. It is our duty to intervene and to adopt a new legislation that is now absolutely necessary and no longer deferred. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u37	Mr President, it has been a long time since there has been a debate in Parliament's classrooms, and even more so in the newspapers, about the need to put in place measures that are able to deal with the problem of so-called road murder. What puzzles me is that we must arrive, for the umpteenth time, under the emotional stress of accidents that have occurred and therefore, as often happens in our country, not for the reasoning and not for the prevention that should be the basis of the action of those who legislate, but to give a response to the emotional pressure that rightly comes from the citizens when they are faced with cases like those we have been able to assist even on the days of street pirates who mow lives on the streets simply because they do not know how to be responsible at the wheel or, worse still, because they are real criminals fleeing from the Forces of Order. I hope that this is not yet another measure taken simply to satisfy this emotionality. If so, we should modify the old adage made the law, found the deception in the following: made the law, we solved the problem. In reality it is not so, because it is not simply by approving legislation, modifying or elevating the penalties for murder done by the vehicle or by a nautical means that solves the problem, if there is no basis - I am appealing to the Government - even a serious policy of education. Let us remember that there may be cases of misfortune. There are those who commit a road accident by misfortune; those who commit it superficially; those who are prey to the fumes of alcohol or under the influence of drugs (I think of a criminal who escapes from the Forces of order, or even a young person or an older person). They are all different situations, but at the basis of which there is certainly a need, which is also to pursue serious education policies in schools. God knows how much education is needed in schools before they get their license. Even more so, we need road code verification actions as regards the safety of our roads. In fact, there are accidents that are often caused by imprudence and accidents that can be avoided by solving dangerous modes of road crossing. However, let us return to the main case, in this case the one that has emotionally moved public opinion in the past days: I refer to the accidents caused by the unfortunates, by those who take the vehicle and, with this, by irresponsible and criminal behaviour, commit murders. My perplexity is as follows. A criminal does not need the rules that apply to civil society, because a criminal certainly does not need a driver's license to drive the vehicle: he drives it without authorisation precisely because he is a criminal. In this case, it certainly requires a great severity in the penis. It takes pains that do not lead the criminal to be released after a few days or even after a few hours. Mr Undersecretary, the matter is certainly before everyone's eyes. The incident takes place but after a few hours the magistrate called to assess the situation considers that there is no social danger of the individual, who is therefore released. This must be prevented by this law. The criminal who, using a vehicle, commits a murder must serve the entire sentence in jail without having access to any benefit. Otherwise, the damage that is actually done to those who have suffered the crime and the poor man's family is further aggravated. This is different from manslaughter and other circumstances that may exist. We're talking about the criminal, which is why it doesn't matter to lose points on the driver's license or not to have a driver's license, just because he's out of the rules for other reasons. Conditions of control should also be considered. Minister, if your fellow Minister for the Interior were here, he should explain to the House how it is possible that certain things might happen in some territories. Let me give you a simple example: a vast territory like that of the Umbria Region has in service, at night, only one patrol of road police. This is certainly not due to negligence on the part of the operators in the field of the Forces of order, but because they are not provided with the means, measures and resources to be able to complete their duty of control and road safety. Therefore, talking about security achieved simply by approving a law like this can be a useful deterrent to public opinion. However, we must demand that there be a complete system of safety on our roads, with the means available to the sector of the Forces of Order, which must be able to carry out its task to the full, with policies carried out within the schools for education and with resources made available also by the territory, in order to prevent dangerous road traits in themselves becoming even mortal in the circumstances of trivial road accidents. Last but not least, let me rebuke the Government for having included, among the cases subject to decriminalisation (with Legislative Decree No. 28 of 16 March 2015 in force as of 2 April 2015) also that of the relief omission. It is not a case which can be assessed as minor or minor. The omission of relief is something to be punished in a serious, strong and heavy way, because a society where the citizen is not educated to assist, even with strong sanctions, is not a society that brings respect to the victims. I repeat that in these circumstances, as in many others, we must first stand on Abel's side and then think of Cain. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u38	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u39	Mr President, I think that the draft law we are debating today might deserve some further consideration, because I believe that there are some aspects that we should look more closely at. I do not want this House to put in place legislation today on the one hand very ineffective and, on the other hand, capable of setting a precedent from my very questionable point of view. I'll try to explain myself. It is a bill which, as we know, is aimed at punishing more seriously and therefore abstractly to provide more effective protection than traffic offences, especially where they involve primary goods such as life or physical safety. First of all, I would like to stress that this regulatory intervention is part of a serious political debate with profound social implications (which should not be underestimated, of course), arising from a considerable number of so-called victims of the road and aggravated by a media outburst caused by certain facts of the news, also underlined by the many associations that have struggled for a long time to see recognized legal protection appropriate to the spread of the phenomenon and which, in my opinion, have inevitably affected the progress of the public debate. I would also like to add that, from a strictly criminal point of view, our system has already undergone some important changes over time, which, precisely in the transposition of these requests, have aggravated the penalty treatment provided for the persons responsible for manslaughter committed in violation of the rules on road traffic regulations, in the event that they are either in alcoholic state or under the influence of drugs. We know the current penal code, in particular Article 589, and we know the penalties: from two and seven years in case of manslaughter committed with violation of the rules on traffic regulations, from three to ten years if the subject is drunk or under the influence of drugs and, if the victims are more than one, the penalty increases to three times. Of course, a similar aggravated treatment was also envisaged for personal injuries related to road traffic. All this to say that it is probably not so true that the current legislation is not strict. On the contrary, to date our sanctioning system - it would have been appropriate to compare more with the system of other European countries - is a strict system, not a bland system. However, despite being a strict system, Italy appears to be number one in Europe due to the number of deaths caused by road accidents. I would therefore like my colleagues to consider this as the first element of reflection: if the penalties are severe and, however, the number of deaths is very high, it is clear that something is not working. In other words, if there is no significant reduction in penalties, there is clearly a point that deserves a greater detail. By the way, I think I can say that this argument does not simply apply to road murder, but always applies; this Parliament would have been right, even in the past months, to question this aspect a little more seriously. From a legal point of view, we know that, in the specific debate that we are facing on the subjective element of the crime, which some consider not attributable to the guilt but much closer to the dole, that of guilt and dole is precisely one of the points of discussion. This consideration, moreover, is based on the fact that the responsibility of the person who is driving a car after having taken alcohol or drugs could not, in the event of an accident, be traced simply to negligence, imprudence, impriety, therefore to the case of manslaughter, but it would present elements attributable instead to the voluntary nature of the action and, therefore, to the dole. Of course, if that were the case, this should result in more serious sanctioning treatment. However, the case law - as we know - has not shown particular favour for this thesis, considering, instead, applicable, precisely, the penalty for manslaughter, albeit aggravated. In fact, the bill we are discussing, with the introduction of two new crimes (road murder and road injuries), is part of this debate. The responsibility for the crime is attributed, in an almost objective way (let's say it would be a kind of dole mixed with guilt), to the agent on the basis of the fact that the death event or injuries would have been caused by driving in a drunken state or psychophysical alteration resulting from the use of narcotic substances. However, in our view this wording is in danger of being very difficult to interpret and we therefore think that it will be subject to major implementation problems. Moreover, for both cases of crime there have been very severe penalties, although contained in the maximum, if caused by subject under the influence of alcohol or narcotics (as we have heard from the debate this evening), i.e. with the imprisonment from eight to twelve years for street or nautical murder, up to eighteen years if more people are killed and, if the driver gets away, there is an even greater increase in punishment (for a behavior, moreover, as horrible as that of the escape after the accident). In addition, compulsory arrest in the case of road homicide and the withdrawal of the driving licence with a variable duration is expected depending on the severity of the violation. Now, the most important legal fact, in our view, is the high threshold not so much of the maximum, but of the minimum: that is what we would like to see further reflection on by this Parliament, also in order to understand whether it is possible, in the course of work, to intervene on it. It is, in fact, a very, very significant thing because, in practice, raising the threshold of the minimum means that the judge, in imposing the penalty on the person responsible for road murder, will not be able to fall below a certain threshold (just the eight years). The legislative intervention, in fact, therefore aims to introduce strict legislation that does not leave the possibility, especially with such a high minimum penalty, to avoid prison. That is the point on which I would like to see a somewhat more serious debate in this House. Otherwise we risk really schizophrenic discussions: on Monday we deal with the overcrowding prison and on Tuesday we deal with its opposite. This debate, in my opinion, risks being very special. We have tabled two amendments amending the edittal limits, lowering both the maximum and the minimum penalty, providing for a minimum sentence of six years, precisely in order to be able to take advantage of alternative measures to prison. In our view, that is the point. It is clear that prison sentences do not solve the problem; it would, in our view, be necessary and desirable for this House to have a little more courage and not simply legislate on the basis of emotion, but on the basis of reasonableness (which the legislator should always do). I think it would be right for this House to take the long, hard and demanding path, which is called 'prevention'. This is the magic word that exists a lot in the rest of Europe and that, instead, in the Italian political debate, is put aside a lot. Of course, we are all absolutely convinced that we are talking about a very serious issue, that this tragedy on the road obviously deserves a great deal of attention and that it deserves a great deal of solidarity and total respect whoever has been in such a situation or had a family involved in this type of situation. In fact, this problem does not only concern the families of the victims, but concerns and involves everyone, especially the youngest and the youngest, the girls and boys, the neo-patented who, in the unawareness of a young age, as we know, can be allowed to go to suicidal and murderous behaviors, of course very serious, but who perhaps should be studied in a more careful way. We are fully aware of this ecatombe (I even want to call it so) and for this very reason we believe that the only prison sentence is not the solution to this problem. In our view an assessment of the case is necessary, also considering that the rules of the road are often evaded by many citizens. That is why we have imagined a number of crucial amendments for us, because if we did not intervene in this area we would not be in a position to vote in favour of this draft law. In addition, we have also presented an agenda that commits the Government to introduce a strategy of road education in schools, to provide compulsory reeducational routes for the perpetrators of crimes against the person. All this to say that you cannot simply focus on the repressive aspect, because it is not true that alone it will solve the problem of road accidents that have fatal outcomes for people's lives and because pursuing this only solution of the phenomenon inevitably involves the increase in the number of prisoners with a long term penalty, implementing also the very serious problem of overcrowding. Mr President, let me make one last brief comment. As I said at the outset, today we are talking about road murder, but unfortunately this is a general approach, which is part of a time when the population of this country is particularly irritated by a latent, profound and dramatic social crisis. I am referring to the idea that one can respond to the anxieties and fears of the country simply by accommodating the emotional, the belly, and thinking that our emergencies simply resolve with this methodology, that is, by elevating the pains and working only on this aspect. It is an easy road that perhaps also brings consensus, because propaganda is always easier than complex reasoning, but it is not useful for our country. I would therefore ask our colleagues to think to the full, not only about road murder, but about everything we are doing in recent months and to reason on this point: it will not be the tightening of the penalties that will solve Italy's problems. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Groups and Senator Manconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u40	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that my history of commitment on this subject will also allow me to say something against the current with regard to the comments I have heard from my colleagues. In the meantime, I would like to remind you that I have been beaten several times in Parliament on the road accidents and massacres on Saturday evening. I'm thinking about my proposals. When there were 9,000 young people killed in those terrible road accidents, Parliament did not even want to impose restrictions on the administration of soft drinks at four o'clock in the morning: the North League voted against this restriction and so did the Democratic Party. It is a long story of contrast to a reality, which is also an emergency. However, in twenty years we have passed from 8,000 to 3,000 deaths a year; so twenty years ago, when 8,000 people died every year in road accidents, I don't even know what it was, as there are 3,000 people today. I also remember that there are 3,000 because fortunately the legislator has introduced some increases in punishment and above all controls. I am referring to the so-called night-time Street Dragon operations, which have convinced us of the risk of serious sanctions in cases of drunk driving or under the influence of drugs. This emergency, rightly, responds to some justified emotions of public opinion. We're always talking about street pirates or who, drunk, drugged or without a driver's license, kills people. On this point of view I think that there are no problems: penalties from ten to twelve years. The perpetrator must know that he should not get drunk, that he should not be drugged and that if in those conditions he drives in a certain way and causes an accident and kills a person, he will pay the consequences. But the problem, for those who have read the provision, is that this is not only addressed to those particular cases, but also to those 20 million Italians who every morning put themselves in the car: to the grandmother, to the mother who every morning accompanies the child to school, to the commercial agent, to the newly-patented boy. The measure is addressed to all those to whom, not because they want to do so, but because of distraction, because there is the sun or for any other reason, it happens to pass with red or yellow, to reverse the march or to take a road against the hand because of the fog (of course without noticing it). Well, for them too, the penalty goes from seven to ten years in prison. Then I would like to understand the ratio of a measure that starts from the pirates of the road, from the drunks, from those that perhaps fall within the context of an event that they could foresee, and it extends instead to 20 million people that every morning should be terrified because, at the moment they get into the car, they think that if something happens to them they will end up in jail. But why keep a family mother in prison? What is the function of the prison in this case compared to the person who caused an accident? Since I was reminded of the case of a boy who committed suicide after causing two accidents, I did a test. If you search for data on the Internet, you will find that there are five drivers who caused fatal accidents and then committed suicide. For a normal person, in fact, honest and quiet to be involved in a road accident that causes a victim is already a trauma that marks his whole life and for which, of course, there will be civil responsibilities. We must not make a measure for which in Italy only those who have the driver are quiet, because so much drive the driver and the passenger takes no risk. So I made sure, but I would like this to be explained by the rapporteur, that, when we talk about penalties from seven to ten years in prison, we are not referring to people who have never caused an accident in their life, who have an intimate life and who can experience this accident, just as it can happen to each of us or to our family members. In every family, in fact, it may happen that a child or a relative is the victim of a car accident; and in every family it may happen that a child or a relative causes a car accident. We are all subject to both eventualities. Then I made sure that, in case there are no precedents and this fortuitous event is really an accident, that there is no volunteering (because it can happen on the street to cause an accident), there will be mitigating factors. There will certainly be civil liability and custody of social services. Anyone who caused a fatal accident, even if a mother of the family, will go to social services. But we do not make a measure by which we associate with the trauma of those who ruin their lives by causing a car accident, even the fact of keeping them in prison months or years. Someone has to explain to me whether we really want to equate these cases (the drunk, the drug addict, those who are without a driver's license or run to the checkpoint, who are already punished with other rules and must be severely punished) to the person who has the misfortune to cause an accident. Think of the case of an elder who, because of the fog, takes the road against the hand. It happens so often. If at that moment a car arrives on the other side that goes 180 kilometers an hour and that, centering it, causes the driver's death. Well, I have some doubts as to whether the elder, even with guilt, would have to go to jail if he went three kilometers an hour along the road. I have some doubts - I repeat - that this behavior is wise and inspired by fairness. And I warn my colleagues that, if we do not form the rule well, the first time that will happen the case of a mother of family, a lady or a worker who come within this case going to prison, there will be a mobilization by the public on the contrary that will say: He's not a pirate. He hasn't been drinking! He is not drugged, but unfortunately - as can happen to everyone in life - he did something out of imprudence, negligence, carelessness or fatality that caused an accident. We are therefore in favour of this measure: I would just like it to be calibrated in such a way that - and we shall see it tomorrow with the amendments - prison is for those who deserve it and for road pirates, also as deterrents. History has shown that it can be reduced from 8,000 to 3,000 and even to 2,000 deaths, so this phenomenon needs to be mitigated in order to save lives. On the other hand, there is no need for generalised criminal rules, which could also affect people in whom there is no evidence of any kind of malice, so there is no need to aggravate a situation which, for the family involved and the people to whom that accident occurred, is already a fatality that ruins life. [[Applause from Senator Sangalli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u43	Mr President, there is still a crime and the further identification of a crime in the already crowded constellation of Italian codes, as if to emphasize - if need be - the all-national duty to legislate out of proportion and to appeal to the norm, thus admitting the deficit of common sense and good manners, the discrasia of values and the discrepancy between good intentions, aimed at limiting the use of new legislation, and the governmental and parliamentary practice of regimentare, to force into a beehive and to "put the cards in place," prosaically speaking. I have the impression that this time, just as it is happening with impressive frequency, the drive to make the law is of popular and demagogic derivation, with a good dose of propensity to follow it. Many people find themselves in the street code: road and nautical murder is a case that dramatically affects consciences and impresses individuals. Of course, for some decades, road accidents have been caused by drunk driving and/or by psychotropic substances. There is already Article 186 of the Road Code which prohibits drunk driving as a result of the intake of alcoholic beverages. I think it is right to intervene in this regard and urgently to introduce sanctions and penalties for those who do not recognize in their irresponsible behaviour an incalculable damage to their neighbour. Too many lives burned, too many massacres on Saturday evening, too many headlines of newspapers, too many openings of news that rip off the quiet afternoons of Italian Sundays announcing yet another accident with deaths, injuries, investments, acts of piracy and massacres of bathers. This is the first speech, Mr President, which I make on behalf of the Group of Italian Conservatives and Reformists: to the victims of the road my thought is deferent and moved. What is missing in all this? In my opinion, the recourse, even by the legislator, to common sense and to a strong call to responsibility. Frankly, Senators and Senators, I would have preferred to read in the wording of the various proposals under discussion the use of preventive practices. There is the whole world unexplored with the assumption of responsibilities, individual and collective: we therefore need more road education, more attention from the educational agencies, starting with school and the family and the media, the responsible use of the means of locomotion, the more humanitarian consideration of speed as a factor of progress to be used in pills, that is less myth of the 200 per hour and more respect for the aesthetics and superlative technique of the fast object. I would have preferred re-educational routes for the perpetrators of road traffic offences. It is a qualitative leap that must be proposed, a cultural opening. Moreover, the behaviour of public administrations should not be underestimated, requiring more agents on the roads and the paths of the holidays, on the state roads and provincial roads of the return, more controls of the means and of those who drive them, in short, more investments and financial resources of the Government in police forces, endowing them with technologies and equipment suitable to prevent. In short, we need more staff recruited with the specific task of protecting the innocent: in this way we will save lives, there will be fewer accidents and less disabled, the coffers of the State and the Regions will benefit, in lower costs for health care to cope with emergency and trauma. Therefore, we need more controls immediately, starting next summer, next weekends, the upcoming public holidays bridges, the upcoming nightclub evenings, so that what must concern the individual and collective right to well-being and serenity is a strong point of good practice put in place by the institutions, in order to ensure to the adult, elderly, young and children citizens the right to life and progress. [[Applause from Senator Carraro. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u44	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I would like to make some preliminary remarks. First of all, I would like to point out to the rapporteur that he has not spared any effort to revise the text, accepting many of the requests made by the debate in the Commission. Secondly, by entering into the substance of the measure and looking at the process it had in the Commission, I would like to point out that there has been a unanimous awareness in the Commission of the political forces of the need to intervene with a legislative instrument capable of reducing the causes of road accidents, particularly those with serious consequences and committed by persons who are in a state of psychophysical alteration due to alcohol and drug abuse. Of course, different solutions have been discussed, from the tightening of the penalties already provided for in our order to the introduction of a crime of its own, the latter hypothesis that seemed to be the most appropriate. Of course, in our country there is a huge problem of certainty of the penalty and the legislator is therefore obliged to identify very high minimum sentences, in order to guarantee at least minimum periods of effective detention in prison. In Italy, without high minimum penalties, you do not go to prison. I want to make one last premise: I believe that the introduction of the crime of road murder in our system is a choice of civilization, because even if the number of fatal accidents in our country is decreasing, we all have an obligation to work further to make this figure tend to zero. This measure therefore seems to make a significant contribution in this direction. What, then, is the result of the text that came out of the Commission? It is a very strict text, which adds to the prison sentences provided for those who commit the crime of road murder, who are in a state of alteration due to abuse of alcohol or drugs, the ancillary penalty of the withdrawal of the licence from 15 to 30 years. Therefore, while not reaching the life sentence of the license, we have reached a proposal of ancillary penalty that I believe can find a unanimous sharing as to severity and extraordinary deterrent scope. We of the 5 Star Movement have explicitly asked for the introduction of the ancillary penalties for the revocation of the licence, precisely because we believe that it can be very relevant, from the point of view of deterrent and, therefore, of the prevention of claims. We are therefore pleased with this text, which we believe can, however, still be improved by amending it at the time of amendment. There are four aspects that are less convincing and that I would like to briefly explain, if I have the attention of the rapporteur. [[Brusio]] AIROLA (M5S). If you don't mind your own business in here! Thank you. Mr Capelletti (M5S). As I anticipated, I'll be brief. First of all, in the event of a minor contribution to the prosecution, both in the case of road homicide and injury, the penalties proposed could be considered, probably not wrongly, excessively penalising. In cases of guilt, in fact, even in the presence of a very low percentage of the blame, one could arrive at a conviction for injuries or road homicide. In other words, if a subject were, in spite of himself, to be involved in an accident caused by serious violation of the code of the road attributable to another subject, it would probably be more appropriate to think of triggering the mitigating factors, moreover already provided for in paragraph 4 of Article 1, that is in the particularly dangerous driving hypothesis. The second concerns the fact that both Article 589-b and 590-b provide understandably for the driver to flee. However, there appears to be a problem of coexistence with the crime, already foreseen in our legal system, of helplessness. A third question, no less important, concerns the decision to deal at the same time, in the same legislative measure, with both road murder and so-called nautical homicide. These are naturally very different offences for objective reasons and could be dealt with separately. We therefore hope that the nautical part can be deleted and that the nautical part can be discussed separately: I believe that, with regard to this point, this is also the opinion of the rapporteur. (Applause from the right) (Applause from the right) Finally, one last point to which I would like to draw the attention of the House is driving by a minor or a person without a licence, which has probably not been well considered by the provisions of Article 2 on the ancillary penalties for the withdrawal of a licence; a driving licence which is therefore presumed to exist for the application of the rule. It is therefore appropriate to consider extending the scope of Article 2 to those without a driving licence and committing the murder of road murder. I conclude by saying that the murder of street murder is not, nor can it be considered as a simple manslaughter. You should not and cannot drive the car under inappropriate psychophysical conditions because, driving the car in a state of psychophysical alteration, you accept the possibility of killing someone. It's exactly like using a weapon. There is, therefore, a responsibility that goes far beyond mere guilt and the legislator with the text under discussion seems to have taken good account of it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u48	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, we are also legalising on the emotional wave: this is the classic example of a draft law that is being rushed into events that occur in society and cause emotional waves. That is why this debate, at least with regard to the amendments, would require a great deal of attention: I just wanted to remind the House of this, because we are really risking - and I have heard cross-cutting comments in this respect - to introduce extremely dangerous rules. [[Applause from Senator Buccarella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u49	Thank you. I share the concern.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u50	We greet the representatives of the Municipal Council of the children who are part of the project "Crescere Cittadini" of the Municipalities of Conzano, Giarole, Mirabello, Occimiano, Terruggia and Villanova Monferrato of the province of Alessandria. I see that at least the boys have already made the Union of Municipalities, since the big ones never succeed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u51	Senator Lo Moro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I basically do not share the approach of the draft law and the speeches that preceded me from my own party and I would like to explain my reasons briefly. First of all, the underlying reasons for this measure are understood and we all share them because in Italy and in the world we die more for road murders than for other reasons. So that there is a problem and that must be addressed, especially with road education, is undeniable. I therefore assume that we are all on the same side and that today we must not take the side of those who are in favour or against anything. We are therefore all aware of the seriousness of the problem. Many of the things I think Mr De Cristofaro has already said to you, so I do not repeat myself. I shall confine myself to pointing out the strong limits that I see in this measure. I start with the formal ones that are probably the least evocative but have their implication (the measure I examined this afternoon, but some limits are quite obvious). A first limit is that this measure, which would also have the ambition - which can be shared - to create a new crime and therefore a discipline of what is called "road murder" does not actually achieve this effect because it keeps alive article 589 of the penal code, second paragraph (I will then call this point in the part of merit of my speech). If this measure were to pass, the road murder would be governed by both the rules of law that we are today to evaluate, and by Article 589 of the penal code in the matter of manslaughter and, in particular, by the second paragraph of this article which continues to be in force and which reads: If the fact is committed in breach of the rules on road traffic or those for the prevention of accidents at work, the penalty shall be two to seven years' imprisonment. So, there would be a basic street murder (the one provided for in the second paragraph of article 589 of the penal code) punished with a two to seven-year imprisonment and then there would be another one that is what we are talking about here this afternoon. This is a formal limit because we have the ambition to unify discipline and we do not succeed. Another formal limit that is not without consequences and, above all, will not be in the process of application of the law by the interpreters and judges, is that while before the third paragraph that is repealed, it was said: "the penalty of (...) applies, if the fact is committed with violation of the rules on the discipline of road traffic by persons in a state of drunkenness and whatever else therefore a particular fault not generic, the one from violation of the road rules, in the new case of road homicide is spoken of guilt in a general way. So, you go from violating the rules of the road code and the nautical code to general guilt. This is a question mark and it is necessary to understand. The interpreter will understand this, but I hope that this deficiency can be filled because the rules on the road code would no longer be the distinction, but a general fault. There are also substantial limits that prevent me from sharing this legislation, of which I am about to speak immediately. Someone has already said that the big limit is that of the minimum penalty that is brought, depending on the circumstances, to eight and seven years. The colleague of the 5 Star Movement Group, interpreting a widespread popular sentiment, but that must not affect either the legislator or the judges when they apply the law, says: the penalties must be high in the minimum because otherwise no one goes to jail. This, however, is not a legal argument, but an argument that some might call common sense. Personally, I do not think it is of common sense; it is an argument that has nothing legal and that I, from a fundamental point of view, could never share. In fact, we reach a minimum and a maximum in an always proportionate way because the legislator does not foresee consequences and therefore places penalties in an absolutely unreasonable and disproportionate way. The penalty must be proportionate to the fact; and here we come to the legislation today when we examine it. I am not referring so much to the circumstances of someone who drives in a drunken state or under the influence of drugs, but I am referring to the traffic homicide committed by a citizen. In this particular case the legislator - or rather the colleagues who have worked on this text and therefore the Commission has tried to codify a number of cases of guilt which obviously considered particularly serious. So he flew over the concept of mild, serious or serious guilt provided for by the penal code and it was considered to foresee, one after the other, a series of hypotheses in which the penalty had to be determined in a completely different way. All this is unreasonable and I am telling you this by setting an example which, among other things, has been called to this House without thinking about the consequences of what was said. We would come to the immediate consequence that in some cases - for example in that of someone who does not stop at a checkpoint because it is not expected that he will commit a violation of the code of the road, in fact committing other kind of violation - Article 589, paragraph 2, of the penal code, which provides for the minimum penalty of two years. On the other hand, those on the road, for whatever reason, go against the hand will suffer a penalty of seven to twelve years. This is unreasonable. A wise legislator does not discuss with his belly, he does not only reason with the associations of the victims, of those who have victims in the family, but must put himself in a third position and above all he has a duty to understand what the consequences are. The obvious disproportion and the fact that in the Commission justice has been enunciated some cases, when there would be many others - and I have participated in so many processes of street murder I am aware of - even more serious than those listed as very serious cases, forgetting a whole series of circumstances that remain out of the norm, it produces the following consequence: that for those cases the legislator, acting as an interpreter of a feeling collected I do not know how he places a particularly high penalty in the minimum and maximum (but above all in the minimum) while in the rest of the cases, perhaps even more serious, like that of those who kill someone while forcing a road block, provides the minimum, from two years up, established by Article 589, paragraph 2 of the penal code, which remains unchanged. All this is - I repeat - unreasonable. For all these reasons, I cannot agree with this provision. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-SEL groups and the Bell and Bignami senators]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u54	Madam President, first of all, following informal contacts with certain groups, I think we should take a decision on whether to postpone until tomorrow...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u55	Senator Malan, we will do this after we have concluded the general discussion and retorts. Then we'll assess the continuation of the session. Let us finish the general discussion and reply and then see how we can proceed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u56	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Madam President. I come back to this practical aspect because I think it would be useful to think about it. If I had been among the first to speak in this general debate, I would have had a different picture of the situation. Now, after listening to so many speeches, including from colleagues who joined at the last minute, I see that there is a great deal of concern on the part of all the groups, indeed of everyone, about this measure. We all agree - and we at Forza Italia certainly are - that we want to change the laws in order to reduce as much as possible the number of people dying on the road. The introduction of the point-to-point licence, which took place about ten years ago with the second Berlusconi Government, led to a sharp reduction in accidents and deaths on the roads. It was a measure. Others have been taken. Nor should we exclude - because we legislators must not think that we are omnipotent as it would be the most serious mistake we could make - that it is also a maturation in the average attitude of Italians to relate to road traffic. Of course the 5,000 more deaths that have not occurred in the current year and that were there ten years ago do not appear in the chronicles, because it is a non-known fact that the road accident does not happen, although it is a reality. The chronicles are instead full of serious episodes, which certainly cause confusion, anger and will to do something. The request that comes to us through so many channels, which mostly refer to associations, to introduce the crime of street murder is certainly the result of those episodes that take place and that surely we must do everything possible to prevent. In order to prevent criminal incidents, however, we must ensure that attitudes and criminal acts are punished, cases where there is serious guilt. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u57	I ask colleagues on my left to lower their voices, allowing Senator Malan to make his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u58	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I believe that their debate is also a useful one, and I mean it seriously, even if I smile. I was saying that, in this and in other circumstances, one risks instead of assimilating those who accidentally cause an accident to the criminal, who perhaps more than once in his life gets to drive under conditions in which he absolutely should not do so, drunk or under the influence of drugs, at absurd and dangerous speeds in itself, holding attitudes of serious danger and deliberately putting himself in a situation of danger and ending up killing a person or causing serious injury. A very different case is that of those who commit infringements which, reading the relative article of the road code, are the same, but with completely different effects, intentions and degree of guilt. I have already very much appreciated in the Commission the rapporteur's attempt to create a text that has its consistency, but I fear that it is an impossible task. To turn what should be an addict - and so many people have said in the course of this debate - into a particular case, in fact, risks being wrong in itself. As others have said very well before me, from last the Senator Lo Moro, there are many other dangerous and dangerous cases that in this case do not fall because we can rightly not insert so many: the more we insert, in fact, we risk punishing dangerous attitudes, which certainly must be repressed, but with penalties from eight to twelve years or from seven to ten years in prison, which appear frankly excessive. By making a choice, however, we risk achieving a truly paradoxical result. Then there is also another problem: the increase in penalties can increase fear, promote the increase in the amount of insurance, as well as a wrong attitude in driving, but it can hardly prevent those episodes that then, when they are reported, arouse collective anger. We can't think of repressing - for example - an episode like the recent one of the 17-year-old who drove and killed a person with a driver's license suspension, when that boy evidently didn't have a driver's license. Consider the five suicides, mentioned by Senator Giovanardi, committed by people who have caused, evidently in a way completely independent of their will, perhaps out of imprudence, the death of a person: can we think of scaring these people who have inflicted themselves death by increasing by a few years the expected penalties? It is often said that we must give a signal but I, quite often, say that the signal that we must give as legislators is to do our job well, and not to give signals as long as it is. When we go to the doctor, we ask that he give us not signals, but the right diagnosis and the right therapy. We do not ask that he give us a signal wearing a particularly shiny coat or prescribing particularly spectacular medical examinations, but we ask that he prescribes the tests and the treatment that are needed. Then there is the problem, mentioned by the colleague of the 5 Star Movement, of the guilt contest. Reading the text, we are led to think that the case of the guilt contest is good: one has 90% of the guilt, but then the accident happens also because the other person has a part of the guilt. No, you don't. According to what is written, a person who has 10 percent guilt is also punished. How many are able, in the few seconds that traffic allows, to understand those signs of prohibition of transit or access, sometimes made of dozens of lines of text, present at the entrance of the areas with limited traffic, and in which are also reported the indications depending on whether the car falls in the category Euro 0, Euro 2 or Euro 3, whether Sunday or festive, whether it is the recurrence of the patron saint or so on? It is 20, 30 lines of text. These things happen in urban centers. We have paradoxes, because a person enters areas of this kind, maybe in the backhand, and then comes one who, by motorbike or car, goes at 150 kilometers per hour and kills himself (if you go at that speed and you collide, you kill yourself). It is the fault of the one who, poor man, peeps in a street against the hand. I also recall the case cited by Senator Giovanardi: I am referring to those who take by mistake, for example with fog, a road against hand, and are subject to penalties from seven to ten years in prison. Then there is a further problem. Here - for example - we punish those who go against the hand but not those who enter a pedestrian zone. Therefore, those who go to an area where traffic is forbidden are not hit, while those who do so with a boat are hit. In fact, the case of those who, with a boat, go to an area where it is forbidden to circulate with a motor vehicle for water. The same thing, done on a pedestrian island, such as the Pantheon Square, is not punished. They're really weird. We risk, among other things, that, when we come to the application of the legislation, there will be an unreasonable ruling on the part of the Constitutional Court. I'll add another problem. We have not considered the fact that injuries or death can also be caused to a person in our own vehicle. If I am not mistaken, in reading the text, the injuries that can be cured in more than twenty days give rise to an action of office and not to a lawsuit of part. It may, therefore, happen that the person who is with us in the car (who is supposed to be our neighbor, a person close to us) probably, given the circumstances, will not want to file a complaint. However, if damage is caused (e.g., an arm breaks and, as a fracture, the prognosis is likely to be more than twenty days), there is a risk of years in prison perhaps to the detriment of the husband, father or son. We're really in danger of doing something harmful. Beyond voting tomorrow and giving signals, and in the light of the debate itself, I believe that, if the general debate serves something (I would say that it has really served today), we must take some useful action from the point of view of the dynamics and the progress of the work, so as to develop something different. In the light of the debate, the work done in the Commission and the action taken, we could take - yes - a measure that meets everything that has been said in practice. I do not think it is really the right way to pass a law by saying - I have heard these comments, even from those who have not spoken - that it is terrible and has really paradoxical aspects, but it must be voted on. In this way we risk anyone saying that Parliament is inert and more. But we risk much more if we adopt an unjust and serious law, which could further increase people's distrust of the law, the state and also Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u59	He's enlisted to speak Senator Filippi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I have allowed myself to speak on account of the particular point I have made on the subject, as a member of the Senate Transport Commission for more than nine years now and because of the fact that I have followed very closely two previous measures to reorder the road code (one, on the other, also as rapporteur). In recent years, because of this work, I have had the privilege of entering into confidential contact - as is natural - with many experts in the field who, for their skills and role, are daily in contact with the road and with the problematic application of the code. Thanks to them, in these years, I have gained a level of awareness of problems different from nine years ago and, again thanks to them, I have changed an approach to problems made sometimes of approximations, but also of resistances and prejudices. It must be immediately said, to avoid misunderstandings, that the data on accident in our country, despite a significant improvement in recent years (especially for deaths), still remain very high and absolutely unacceptable. Although we have almost halved the deaths of road accidents since 2001 to the present day, their demographic composition and the type of victims - the weak users of the road, weak because they are less protected - lead us to believe that our mission is not only not finished or is already well done, but on the contrary it is just beginning. Nevertheless, precisely in order to better match the Community objective of further half-life on the road for the next ten years, the rules which the legislator is called upon to adopt should make a qualitative leap corresponding to the increase in the expected target. The legislator is therefore not asked to act in emotional terms, because of a complex phenomenon that requires on the contrary a scientific approach, determined and perhaps even intransigent on some principles that constitute the main factors of incidentality, particularly serious. I would like to point out that in recent years many of the rules that Parliament has adopted have been a success because they have passed an ideological or biased view. In a truly bipartisan spirit, rules have been abandoned resulting from an emotional approach, such as those linked to the tightening of sanctions, in the mistaken belief that they constituted an effective deterrent to infringements. More substantial initiatives have been taken, such as those linked to the major road controls or to the provision of strict rules, such as those which, for opposing reasons, affected the newcomers and professional drivers. Significant interventions have been directed to road education, especially for the youngest and the youngest in schools. I would also like to point out the effectiveness of the introduction of a point-to-point licence and its constant refinement in terms of procedural operation. In these years of great technological innovations, many have also been the changes that, as a result, have been recorded on the roads, from a generalized improvement of the infrastructures and the control instruments (think, for example, the tutor) to those on the cars, with always better performances also in terms of safety. It is good to be clear: the aspect on which we still have to go a long way is the one related to the behaviour of drivers. Twenty years ago it was certainly the speed - as has been said - the first, main and almost exclusive cause of death. Today we know that it is no longer the only factor, because the driver's driving status (drunkness, drunkenness, stunnedness or distraction) must also be related to it. Running on the road with faster and faster cars had led our country to have progressive, sad record of accident and victims every year. In the years that lie behind us, they have been the state of drunkenness and more often of manifest drunkenness the causes that have caused the most tragic accidents, sometimes combined with the omission of rescue. The latter is a particularly hateful and inhuman behavior and, for this reason, deserving of an effective tightening of sanctions. That is why we need to adopt even more radical and intransigent rules in this area, so that we can say - as has been pointed out - the concept that we either drive or drink. But, over the years even more recent to us, it seems to be the phenomenon of distractions behind the wheel that tends to cause the greatest number of road accidents, sometimes with dramatic results. All this in order to say that the legislator has often carved out the role of accommodating the current trends, recording behind the evolutions that, from the point of view of innovations or behaviors, were to be determined. More rarely has the legislator been able to anticipate trends and to remedy them preventively. But I have to say that the legislator has never indulged in the emotional spirit of the moment, whether it was the important interests of car manufacturers or motorway dealers, or the inconsolable desperation of the relatives of the victims. In approaching this measure, while understanding the ratio and the narrowness that it intends to place on the recent phenomena of road piracy, linking, perhaps even not entirely appropriate, some incidents with the voluntary nature of the damage produced (in particular about the state of drunkenness and the intake of narcotic substances before driving the car), less I can understand why from the transgression of some norms one wants to make descend the voluntariness and, consequently, with the tightening of the penalty. Already the excess of speed, under sober driving conditions, can be a factor that perceptively is extremely differentiated depending on the car and the driver, but I realize that the tightening of the penalty wants to have - I imagine - also a propaedeutic end to more specific attention. Certainly the reversal to "U" can constitute a behavior that cannot be tolerated in terms of compliance with the basic norms of the code and whose voluntarity is generally quite evident, even intuitively. Therefore, in the event of a sudden death, an exemplary penalty may be understandable for these two cases. But the two cases on which I rise - and not only to me - are those relating to the sanctions resulting from the death determined on pedestrian crossings and on the crossing at the intersection with red traffic light. This certainly does not depend on the fact that behavior is less serious, but the statistics and direct testimonies tell us how recurrent are such incidentalities and how the solutions should probably be sought on another level, not always attributable to a voluntariness of the driver. Just think of the amount of accidents that occur on pedestrian crossings in double lane and high traffic urban roads to understand that sometimes the problem lies in the lack or inadequate reporting of such crossings and/or rules of the code that probably need to be remodulated, providing for more appropriate traffic traffic crossings. And then I quote the crossing of intersections with the red light. I believe that many of us are involuntarily involved in this infringement, out of distraction, because they are dazzled by the sun or because the traffic light is not working. Here, I am only referring to these two cases and I recommend caution to the Government and the rapporteur: caution to write rules that risk creating more problems than they can solve and, above all, risk being disowned by the reality of things; rules that, as we are told by the most reliable experts, on these two cases, risk being applied, if not even causing considerable damage, especially for the less well-off, in order to be adequately protected in court. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u61	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u62	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u63	Madam President, very quickly and in a very schematic way, I draw the points that have been brought to the attention of this House. With regard to the problem of life imprisonment, I have already expressed myself in the introductory report: the life sentence of the licence is unworkable and it is not possible, because it would be a completely inappropriate measure, because, with rehabilitation, in fact, it would become non-operational and the return of the licence would be extremely short. As I said, therefore, following the comparison in the Commission, we have opted for a penalty system which is certainly more serious, more effective and above all more certain than the life sentence of the licence which, beyond the suggestion of terminology, would not have the effect it would be intended to have. Others have called for a more serious sanctioning system, including also the hypothesis referred to in Article 186 (2) (b) of the Road Code in the sanctioning system which has been provided, on the other hand, exclusively for the case referred to in point (c). In this regard, it must be said that this problem has indeed also been put in the Commission, but it has been decided to differentiate - as Senator Falanga also pointed out during his speech - precisely because of the fairly clear distinction existing between the effects which may have an alcohol level such as that provided for in point (b) of paragraph 2 of Article 186, with respect to the effects of that instead provided for in point (c). Another much more sensitive argument relates to some of the infringements introduced, as Senator Filippi recalled during the last intervention. This problem has been addressed in the Commission. There is no preliminary foreclosure for this issue to be dealt with even in the context of the amendment. However, I would like to point out that we have taken into account, specifically in the text of the draft law under discussion, the statistically indicated cases such as those which have caused numerous deaths. It is not true, therefore, that a double system is set up: on the one hand, the one provided for in Article 589, second paragraph, of the penal code (which remains standing) and, on the other hand, the one that provides - yes - for street murder. In fact, if a person reverses absolutely ordinary, not fast, and, for a distraction, does not see that behind there is a person, it is evident that in that situation one remains within the framework of the penalty provided for in article 589, second paragraph, of the penal code. Another case is, on the other hand, the one relating to the most recurrent situations, which we have introduced in the article of law and which most of all cause death. I would like to remind you - as I said in the introductory report - that the problem of red traffic lights is a matter of education: we must, that is, get used to understanding that, when we are in the car, we must think about driving and doing nothing else. And then the judge will assess whether the sun in the face prevented the free view or a leaf covered the traffic light, which are those cases where it is evident that responsibility is excluded. On the contrary, I absolutely do not agree with what has been said about non-compliance with the order to stop by the police. Of this case we had a very recent example with the death of Mrs Filipina, whose perpetrators are not now investigated for manslaughter, but for voluntary murder, because the choice to overcome a checkpoint implies an act made with conscience and will and, therefore, responds to arson and not manslaughter. That is why it seems to me to be a very presumptuous argument. And I'll come back to the question of the extent of the penalties. Senator Falanga argued that those who refuse to submit to the examination should be charged the same penalty as those provided for in the event that this investigation can be made. Well, I do not believe that we can equate DNA testing and the refusal to submit to this examination in the event of a paternity investigation with a criminal case for which there is an extremely serious penalty. Moreover, I do not believe that there is a judge who is willing to condemn, on the basis of a presumption of guilt (because it would be presumptuous), those who refuse to submit to the investigation, nor can it be predicted the same. Then there was talk of the escape and a special attack was planned, which should not be confused with the omission of rescue. In the event that there is also a lack of assistance, it is clear that the person responsible will respond both to the flight with the expense provided for by this legislation, and to the omission of rescue, which, in order to be configurable, must present the requirements provided for by the nome of law. Tonight I have heard again of eventual malice, but it seems useless to me to do so, because the judgments of the Supreme Court, especially the last ones, have now cleared the field from any reasonable doubt: of eventual malice we cannot speak and, in this case, we are definitely in the sphere of guilt and in it we must remain. Senator De Cristofaro spoke about the problem of penalties. I am referring to the system that has been adopted, namely the raising of minimum penalties. Given that I agree with the fact that it is not jail - as I said very clearly in the introductory report - which solves these problems, we must reflect, taking into account the calculation of circumstances, on that minimum penalty. I should like to start by saying that, in the course of the hearings, the problem of applying the minimum penalty has become clear and that it always starts from it. Then we must go to the mother and father of the four-year-old who was torn from their hands and killed by a motorcyclist who traveled very fast to explain why we continue to allow the six-month sentence to be applied. This means that, in fact, there is no criminal consequence for those people. As you know, in fact, the sentence of six months falls within the scope of the granting of the conditional suspension of the sentence and you do not see the prison. But that prison about which Senator De Cristofaro spoke, starting from the minimum of the penalty provided, will not be seen equally, because you will, of course, have to access the alternative measures and, therefore, the custody in trial to social services, which will certainly serve to re-educate those who have become responsible for such serious facts. But those eight years are clearly the minimum threshold for preventing the conditional suspension of the sentence and, therefore, for the criminal effects of a conviction for such serious facts to be put into thin air. That eight-year threshold is indeed the minimum that allows to avoid suspension but, at the same time, prison in most cases (I obviously do not speak of relapse, because it would not be possible to access it), with alternative measures to detention. It is true that the rules are extremely strict, but that is what we are required. It is a question of finally giving effect to these standards which, until now, have been considered to be B series. The rules of the road code are set to protect personal and other safety. We must get used to understanding that, when we are driving a car, we are using a weapon and that that weapon can kill, even for very small things, as may seem the passage with the red light or even the pedestrian crossing. To all of us, in everyday life, I think it happened to protest when, stopped in front of the pedestrian stripes to make someone cross, next door (even for such events there has been a serious endless death) has darted a bike, careless of the fact that we stop not for the taste of doing so, but to respect a rule of the road code that requires to let pedestrians pass through the pedestrian stripes. It is clear that, if that motion darts, it does not care about the content of the rules of the road code that - as I have already said - are placed to protect the safety of the community. We must, therefore, certainly carry out a serious education service, but I am also convinced that the rules we are introducing will perform a very serious service of prevention and observance of the road code, which has been developed for too long and whose non-compliance has actually caused the death of so many people who are absolutely blameless. It is true that the sanctioning system is serious, but I want to remind you that dead people will never come back to life again. Often they are children, and almost always victims absolutely blameless of the non-compliance of norms on the part of all of us, who think we are good drivers and have mastery of the cars. We all do, and I include myself, because we're used to thinking that accidents like this can't happen to us. Unfortunately, instead, history tells us that in everyday life it happens that, from the non-compliance with those norms, apparently useless, comes an endless series of deaths of people who will never return to the affections of their loved ones, but will live only in their memory. Let us at least allow them to be given serious and effective justice, which - as I said - is not jail. I have always been against the raising of penalties, although it is the only way to give an answer in some way that really meets the needs. And it won't end up in jail, because, in fact - and it's enough to do it to see it - the many alternative systems I've talked about will not put people in jail for a long time, so they can certainly avoid it. It is also clear that, in the course of the amendment, those cases which Mr Filippi also mentioned, which closed the general discussion with his speech, may possibly be re-examined, but bearing in mind - I should like to stress this - that failure to comply with rules which seem elementary may, however, result in the death of a subject. On the other hand, where there are reasons why it has not been possible to observe them, as in the cases mentioned above, it is clear that the common sense of the judge will lead to the correct application of the law and will prevent the application of such severe penalties for cases which, in fact, do not comply with those provided for in the new legislation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u64	Colleagues, the Government - I also believe in order to deepen the elements that emerged during the debate - believes that, given the time at which we arrived, it will reply at tomorrow's sitting. I therefore refer you to the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u65	I inform you that Parliament is convened at 3 p.m. on Thursday 11 June 2015 for the vote on the election of two judges of the Constitutional Court. The call will begin with the senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u68	THE COURT (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after more than a year and a half of the fight against cancer this morning, Pedro González Zerolo died in Madrid at the age of fifty-five. He was one of Europe's leading LGBT rights activists. Lawyer, City Councillor of Madrid from 2003 to 2011, Chairman of the Socialist Party of Madrid since 2007, Zerolo began his political commitment as early as 1998, as President of the FELGT, the Spanish Federation of LGBT Organizations, until in 2004 Zapatero called him to hold the position of National Head of the PSOE for NGOs and social movements. In those years, Zerolo was the main animator of the battle for the extension of civil marriage to same-sex couples, later approved in 2005. For the first time, a Southern European country recognized marriage to same-sex couples, soon followed by other Latin countries, from Portugal to Argentina, from Uruguay to Mexico, to Brazil. I met him that year, when we invited him to Italy to tell us how it was possible that a country so strongly Catholic, with a liberticide dictatorship behind it, had made a decision that, at the time, was innovative and courageous, taken up until then only by Holland and Belgium. A margin of prejudice had broken and a wave had started that would have produced the same law in 14 European states within a few years. Pedro Zerolo was also the protagonist of an important law on the sexual identity and rights of transsexuals, which led to the possibility of a change and an attribution of sex without the surgical operation: also in this case, a measure followed by many other European countries. Great communicator, Zerolo came out publicly with his disease - pancreatic cancer - facing it fearlessly, with great strength, and without abandoning that party he loved so much and in which he continued to military until the end. Atheist, republican, gay, feminist, socialist: a defender of civil rights of which I am pleased today that the Assembly can remember the figure, because it was one of those that produced, within the European continent, a great wind of freedom and a great example of struggle for civil rights, for the civilization of his country and of Europe as a whole. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u71	Mr Pagliari (PD). Madam President, I would like to bring to this House solidarity in the case of the former Fincuoghi factory in Borgotaro, Val di Taro, province of Parma. On 8 June last, the 120 workers in this factory received the notification of the cessation of production, without any explanation and without any justification. This is how the legal procedures for the setting-up of cash-integration and for all subsequent activities have begun. There has been a strong reaction of the territory and of all the workers, because of the importance of this factory in an already depressed mountain economy, in which to close a factory of this type means to bring down employment to even lower levels than the ones involved in the economic crisis. Together with the Members of this House, Mr Maestri and Mr Romanini, who come from my own city, we have submitted an urgent question to the Minister for Labour. I would therefore like to recall the importance of a decisive intervention by the Minister of Labour himself and the opening of a crisis table at the Ministry of Economic Development, in order to give a support and a solution to this issue, which cannot end in this way. Beyond the crisis, it is an establishment that must be able to resume its activity, since there is no reason why it should be discontinued. The same group, which communicated the dismissals, had given positive news a few days before on the development of the activity in this plant. I would therefore like to bear witness to this, here, by reaffirming my commitment to the workers and my solidarity with the workers and their families, for this moment in their lives certainly very painful. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u72	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-461.ana.u73	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 10 June, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.42 p.m.
