ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 5 August. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u6	FADELI (PD). Mr President, I would just like to say that you are presiding over the work of this House when you should be on matrimonial leave. I would therefore like to wish you all the best for your recent marriage. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u7	President Fedeli, thank you. Being an enthusiast of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and the interpretative norms, I recall the existence of a resolution of the quaestors senators of 2011 that does not consider absence justified the matrimonial leave. In the light of the reform of the Senate that we are facing and the failure of the requirement of the completion of forty years of age to enter the passive electorate we hope in the future not only to celebrate marriages or - unfortunately - to remember people, but also to celebrate beautiful births. This is my wish for the future Senate. Thank you all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u10	IN MAY (CoR). Mr President, I would like to appeal to your institutional sensitivity, but I would also like to invest in the Presidency Council to intervene in order to heal a further defiance that I believe this country suffered yesterday evening. Yesterday the most important butler of Italian power hosted on the public networks of RAI i Casamonica. We know perfectly well what is the sensitivity of this country and what are the institutional sensibilities regarding the performance of the funerals of one of the members of this family. I'm a member of parliament of this country, so I can't pretend I didn't see. I hope that I am not the only Member of Parliament who asks for the Presidency Council to take action to ensure that the Senate intervenes on the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services so that serious measures can be taken this time. [[Applause from the CoR, PD, M5S and Aut-LN Groups and Senator Simeoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u11	Senator Di Maggio, thank you for this information that will be forwarded to the competent body.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u12	The next item is the joint debate on draft law Nos. 2008 and 2009. The rapporteurs, Senators Fravezzi and Del Barba, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur on draft law No 2008, Senator Fravezzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, the general accounts of the State include the balance sheet of the budget and the general balance sheet of value-added assets, as well as the accounts annexed to the accounts of certain autonomous state administrations. The proposed budget under legislation in force for 2016 will, inter alia, take as the reference basis for the assessment of liabilities the final findings contained in the 2014 financial statements, which are also highlighted in the 2015 settlement bill, for the purpose of determining any adjustments to payment authorisations. Among the main relatively recent innovations of the Law of Accounting I recall first that the budget account, divided into missions, programmes and chapters, is accompanied, pursuant to Law No 196 of 2009, by special supplementary notes which, for each administration, expose the financial results, the main facts of the management and the degree of achievement of the objectives related to each programme and report the motivation given by the administrations on the possible deviations between the initial and the final forecasts. I would also point out that the economic statement, which sets out the economic results for each Ministry and the prospects for reconciliation with the results of the financial statements, is annexed to the bill, in order to allow the legislative body to know and deepen the economic information (i.e. the costs) to complete the general information framework relating to the budget. In addition, an illustration of the results of expenditure on programmes having an environmental nature or content is attached in order to highlight the resources used for environmental protection purposes. With reference to the results of the management of competence, overall, although an improvement has been achieved compared to the final forecasts as result of the 2014 settling law, all the balances show a worsening compared to the results achieved in the financial year 2013, a deterioration due, as the Government reminds us in the report that accompanies the bill to our examination, to a macroeconomic context realized in 2014 significantly different from what expected during the programming phase. In April 2013, in fact, the DEF estimated for the Italian economy a nominal growth rate of 3.2 percent (1.3% real) in 2014, also thanks to the effects of the public administration debt payments plan launched in 2013 and continued in 2014. In September 2013, the Update Note to the DEF unfortunately revised the real growth estimates down by about 0.3 percent, with a change in the deflator of gross domestic product unchanged. In April 2014, the DEF experienced a further slowdown in real growth for 2014, to be added this time to the deflationary pressures prevailing in the euro area, with an estimated change in the deflator falling to around 1%; the nominal GDP growth rate (1.7%) was almost halved compared to the previous year's forecasts. In the following months, the evolution of the cycle has proved even more severe, as revealed to us the forecasts contained in the Update Note of the DEF 2014, and this is mainly attributable to some factors: the deterioration of the international framework and, in particular, the fall of the prices of the manufacturing sector of the main trading partners obviously faster than expected, with a contribution therefore of foreign demand to the Italian growth much weaker. Added to this was a less rapid reaction from operators than expected to the substantial general government debt payments programme. The extension of the recessive phase and the clear deflagrating trend made it more difficult to approach the medium-term objective, so it was necessary to activate the extraordinary procedure provided for in Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012, allowing a change from the path of approach to the medium-term objective and a greater use of debt than expected and authorised by the 2014 Stability Act. The use of these margins has enabled the Government to take a number of measures, including measures to reduce the tax wedge. Returning to the results of management of competence, I find in particular that the net balance to be financed of the budget of the State for 2014, while presenting a negative value pairs to 52,8 billion euros, with a worsening of 24,8 billion regarding the balance recorded in 2013, regarding the definitive forecasts has turned out better than the expectations, place that was expected to be attested in 2014 to a negative value of -62,8 billion euros. The balance of current transactions (public savings) in 2014 shows a worsening compared to the previous year, resulting in 18.4 billion euros. The worsening is to be put in relation to both the increase of the current expenditure (+15,360 billion) and the decrease of the current revenues (-5,908 billion). The use of the market (difference between the final revenue and the total expenditure, including those relating to the repayment of loans) was finally attested in 2014 to a value of 260.4 billion euros. This balance is also deteriorating compared to 2013, reaching a value of around 61 billion. The total amount of income checks, including the proceeds for the ignition of loans, of EUR 840,160 billion, shows a positive trend compared to the previous year (+21,234 billion euros, i.e. +2.6 percent). Total expenditure commitments (including loan repayment expenditure totalling 810,587 billion) show a total increase in expenditure commitments of €57,606 billion (+7.6 percent) compared with the previous year's results. As far as current expenditure is concerned, commitments amounted to EUR 526,195 billion, an increase compared to the previous year of EUR 15,36 billion, or 3%. For capital expenditure, with commitments of 76.83 billion, the 2014 statement shows an increase compared to 2013 of 7.9% (+ 5.7 billion), ascribable to the category of the acquisition of financial assets, which shows an increase of approximately 10 billion euros compared to 2013. The increase, which already occurred in the final forecast in 2014 (later substantially confirmed as final), is mainly to be traced back to the Fund in order to ensure to the territorial authorities the liquidity necessary for the payment of past debts and to the Fund for the granting of loans to the Regions for the repurchase of bonds in circulation. The weight of overall expenditure, in relation to GDP, increased from 48.3% of GDP in 2013 to 50.2% in 2014. Turning then to the management of the residues, the size of the residues remained at considerable levels also in the financial year 2014, but was reduced on the revenue side. In summary, the residue account as at 31 December 2014 exposes active residues of 209,127 billion euros and liabilities of 113,253 billion euros, with an active surplus of 95,874 billion euros. However, there is an improvement in the volume of active residues, which decreased by about 52 billion (almost 20% less) compared to 2013, partly balanced by the increase in passive residues of about 29 billion. The increase in newly formed residual liabilities of 18 billion is linked to the fact that the commitments of competence have increased more than that recorded by the payments of competence. The explanatory report to the bill of financial statements shows that during the financial year 2014 the process of extraordinary re-assessment of passive residues was carried out, provided for in Article 49 of Decree-Law No 66 of 2014. In particular, the decrease in total active residues is linked to the decrease in those from previous years, which are reduced by about 53 billion (from 165.6 billion to 112.6 billion). The general account of the assets shows a passive surplus of 1.691.6 billion, with a deterioration of approximately 129.6 billion compared to the balance sheet at the end of 2013, due to a decrease in assets (about 30 billion less) and an increase in liabilities (+99 billion). In particular, total assets amounted to €968.565 billion, of which €669 billion (down 35.4 billion compared to 2013); €295.228 billion in non-financial assets produced, including tangible and intangible assets produced, raw materials and intermediate products, finished products, valuables and art objects (mobile cultural assets, libraries and archives), an increase of two billion compared to 2013; €4.3 billion in non-produced non-financial assets, including non-produced tangible assets, i.e. land, deposits and non-cultivated biological resources (a slight decrease compared to 2013 of around €100 million). The total liability amounts to approximately 2.660 billion and refers entirely to liabilities of a financial nature and, compared to the closing of the financial year 2013, the amount of financial liabilities recorded an increase of 99.1 billion euros. As noted by the Court of Auditors in its report on the balance sheet, of the total amount of liabilities, 1,838,6 billion are related to government debt, consisting of floating debt, BTP, CCC, foreign loans and other redemption debt loans, with an increase of 60,2 billion compared to 2013. The Court of Auditors' judgment of equalisation revealed some irregularities which were the subject of a specific analysis, contained in the report submitted to Parliament. In particular, the Court of Auditors noted, in the decision taken in the judgment on equalization, the revenue side of the differences. On the expenditure side, the Court has instead found that the irregularities found on the 2014 Report covered a percentage, calculated in terms of the ratio between the amount of the title and the amount of the sampled expenditure, which does not arouse alarm regarding the reliability of the accounts, and has however reported a series of criticalities and discrepancies. With regard to these observations and critical issues, we in the Budget Committee have had the opportunity to reason and discuss them, and we believe that the reform of the budget structure could help to remedy the problems identified. Above all it will be a great opportunity - as we shared with Deputy Minister Morando - what the Government has in implementing the reform of the public administration. As regards the progress of the programme for the revision of public expenditure, action must be taken qualitatively on the structure of the public sector. It therefore seems strategic to link the process of redeployment of public expenditure to the reform of public administration. To this end, in our view, it would be appropriate for the government in the delegated legislative decrees to quantify on time the savings expected from the reform so that these result indicators will be responsible for the apical figures, the executives called upon to implement them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u14	Colleagues, appreciate the circumstances, I suspend the session until 10 am to resume with the commemoration of Senator Donato Bruno. (The sitting was suspended at 9.54 and resumed at 10 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u15	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, last 17 years, at the age of 66, Senator Donato Bruno was missing. The sad news struck us deeply. Each of us was able to appreciate its uncommon, human, political and professional qualities, its competence, its style of speech and presence, which characterized its participation in parliamentary work. Born in Noci, in the province of Bari, Roman of adoption, Senator Bruno has been passionately practicing the forensic profession, creating a solid and renowned law firm. In his professional career he devoted himself mainly to civil law, where he was able to acquire a wealth of knowledge and methods then employed in the other fields of his activity, starting from his contribution in Parliament. He was elected Parliamentary for the first time in 1996 to the Chamber of Deputies, where he was continuously confirmed for four legislatures, from the 13th to the 16th, holding various and delicate positions: in particular, in the 14th and 16th legislature he held the office of President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in the 15th legislature he served as President of the Assembly of the elections. In those years he gained his particular competence on institutional issues. In 2013 he was elected to the Senate, where he joined the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Council for the Rules of Procedure, and held the position of President of the Guarantee Council. Joined the Parliamentary Group of Forza Italia, he was Vice President. In this legislature, Senator Bruno devoted himself primarily to institutional issues. Everyone recognizes his expertise and knowledge in the procedural issues of merit, openness to dialogue and practical sense in the search for possible balance points. As a member of the Council for the Rules of Procedure, he participated assiduously in the work of the College, in particular as rapporteur on the proposals for reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. Everyone will lack his grace, his irony, his spirit of moderation and balance, recognized also by opponents in years of political confrontation, often bitter and sometimes exasperated. The loss of its contribution and its contribution to competence, political experience and elegant humanity is a loss to Parliament's life. In renewing the expressions of deep condolence to the wife and family, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute of silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u18	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I still seem to hear it in this Chamber, Donato, with that unmistakable, deep and inimitable voice. I never heard him raise his voice, because Donato didn't need it. His whisper, his brief reasoning, even a word of his, were much more authoritative than so many cries and useless speeches. You all know how, when a loved one is missing, it is some details, more than others, that point out his absence and give you a grip on your heart every time you think about it. And Donato's voice was one of these details. And what about his extraordinary sense of humor, always ready to decompress and bring back every argument to reasonableness with a smile, with a nod, with an expression of the face, with an raised eyebrow. Even the last time we saw him in the Senate, in July, he fell slowly and, to whom asked him how to go, he replied with a smile: better, much better, otherwise what would I come to do in the Senate? It sounded like he was joking. Instead, it was his way of teasing the disease. Ironic and reserved as always, he was simply desecrating a destiny that by now knew well to be marked. I think it is unnecessary to retrace Donato's political history today, which we all know and which has now retraced President Grasso. Many of us have had the honour to accompany him on this path, which has always seen him military in Forza Italia in a straightforward and loyal way, alongside President Berlusconi, to whom he linked a relationship of affection and mutual esteem. Donato taught a lot to many of us. To me personally certainly the art of reasonable politics, of being able to achieve possible goals always having respect for the opinions of others, considering them precious, even if distant, and always seeking a viable mediation. He gave us a clear example of this during the work of constitutional reform, when, as all my colleagues in the 1st Commission know, his commitment, his suggestions and his ideas were fundamental to achieving a text that was largely shared, unforced and balanced. The reform goes back to the Senate these days and I am sure that its wisdom will be lacking not only in us of Forza Italia, but in all the senators, in the Commission and in the Chamber. For those extraordinary coincidences of life, tragic and wonderful together, his son Nicola yesterday became the father of a beautiful child, to whom he gave the name of Donato: it will be trivial to say, but one cannot but see the cycle of existence that continues in a life that is born after a tragic disappearance. I want to say goodbye to Donato's whole family, who's here. [[Live, prolonged applause. The Assembly stands.]] Their pain is also ours and I want above all to pay homage to Paola, wife and companion of Donato, a strong and admirable woman, who in the splendid farewell speech she made during the funeral was able to draw the figure of a complete and rich man, of a united and supportive family until the end. We all loved Donato, because he had the extraordinary ability to always be present when needed and close for a word and advice to anyone who needed it. In these years, first in the House and then here in the Senate, he has done an extraordinary and irreplaceable job, but what we will miss will be his irony, his humanity and his friendship. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u21	D'ANNA (AL-A). Mr President, it is not easy to commemorate a person to whom we owe affection and sympathy, as well as esteem, without falling into the temptation of redundancy. When my group leader Barani boldly warned me that I should have done on behalf of the AL-A Group this due and heartfelt tribute to Donato Bruno, I came to mind a phrase by Fogazzaro in "Little ancient world": "Nothing is erased, nothing is ever truly lost, everything remains in the meandering of heart and memory." I find it difficult to sketch the figure of Donato Bruno, beyond his illustrious political and professional merits, deviating it from the distinctive traits of his person, that is the bonomy, the friendliness and that characteristic element of intelligence that is irony, the same that Socrates used in the maieutics, defining it as the instrument to give birth to the minds. Often I did not agree with him: I am a hardened smoker, so we were frequenters of the smoker, but I never had the adventure of having to clash with him, because the contradictory was always polite and ironic and, very often, he managed to convince me of some things. Donato Bruno, in fact, never wanted to convert anyone to strokes of crucifix on the head, as Jean Cocteau of Maritain says. He was a man of dialogue, good and mild, and therefore, in reality - I say this in the presence of the children - from today we feel more alone because we lack a friend, a person we consider dear, but not because it is in the political world: we lack as a person, not as a senator. I want to conclude my speech in a simple way, having drawn more to the emotion than to what could be said about the political and professional figure of Donato Bruno. The Romans and the men who had served the Republic dedicated the epicide because it was right that those who served the State could be officially remembered. We have this duty because I believe we must recognize another of the characteristics of Donato Bruno, whose death struck me beyond what I thought should be. I am referring to the fact that he has been able to be a public man without boasting of power: he has been able to be a humble and authoritative person at the same time. I think we should remember, therefore, with sobriety, without emphasis and without the use of rhetoric. I express, on behalf of the AL-A Group and all the senators who are part of it, my sincere condolences and, if I may, the pain that I have felt and still feel in seeing that empty bench. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u24	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, by role and rank I add my speech to commemorate President Donato Bruno. I would like my speech to be humbly perceived, not as it was already possible to perceive yesterday in the Commission 1a the sentiment and emotion of President Finocchiaro or as, for his personal better knowledge, the intervention that President Romani was able to make, distinguishing his words of commemoration, which in general can be more or less remarkable depending on the note of personal knowledge, in an unparalleled and incomparable way. I was lucky enough to meet President Donato Bruno from 1996-1997. In those days, I exchanged with him, who was much more authoritative, only simple sentences, pleasant and greetings; but, by destiny and by the evolution of political facts and of our political life, in recent times it has happened much more and the attendance has given me the opportunity to receive suggestions, advice and, without emphasis, important teachings. This brings with it the pain of disappearing, of no longer recognizing him in this House and of not being able to meet him again and leads us to perceive his failure as - allow me - a demise of our assembly and of our Assembly, without taking away anything from those who replace him. The value, competence and agile intelligence that have marked it certainly cannot be recovered. However, I would like to stress that we must not allow the pain to overwhelm the memory of his ineffable smile, of his courteous lordship, of his great generosity. Without anything else to add, I would just like to say: goodbye, President Donato Bruno. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u27	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, allow me to address the family in order to convey the Group's deepest condolences and, even more so, the sadness and the lack that is felt in the Group, my personal one, that of the colleagues who met Donato in the last parliamentary term and, I can say this, that of President Calderoli, who worked together with Donato. Mr President, I would like to remind Donato of how I met him, by associating myself with the fine words that have already been said and with the memory of man. For me, however, Donato Bruno was something more: I met him in the last parliamentary term in the Chamber - and I look not by chance at my colleague Senator Lo Moro - in that The Commission of which there are still important representations in Parliament today. When the Group assigned me to the Commission, I had the opportunity to meet President Bruno and, after a month of my installation, I happened to make my first speech in this House. I do not know if there are many colleagues who remember their first speech: I do, I remember. So I did the intervention and President Bruno said to me: "Raffaele, you made your first speech!" and I told him that I was so excited. On that very occasion there was for me the first great lesson. He said to me: 'Raffaele, if, even after ten years of activity, one does not get excited when he gets up in a Parliament like that of Parliament, he has not understood where he is.' [[Applause]] That was the testimony of a man who believed in institutions and respected them. In those years I had the opportunity to start seeing him: I often visited him in his office in the Chamber of Deputies, for an always stimulating and interesting discussion. There I received the second major lesson - and, again, man shows - that we parliamentarians are only part of the parliamentary institution, because the other part is the people who work with us every day, the officials and managers of these important structures, from whom we are sometimes dependent and sometimes the opposite happens. The teaching of Donato Bruno was given precisely by the esteem he had towards all those with whom he collaborated: I believe that even today this would serve as a lesson to many... Sorry, today I get very excited, because for me Donato Bruno was first of all a friend, indeed something more: he was a teacher without ever seemed it, he was above all a guide who could give you advice and could direct you with a few words. Certainly he was a partisan, but with a style that perhaps today he forgets. When sometimes I also happened to be called back by President Bruno to the Commission, then, smoking the usual cigarette - which was remembered - he said to me: "Raffaele, today you really wanted to break the boxes" and I said to him: "I learned from you"... [[Applause]] In conclusion, let me just say one thing, because I do not think words are necessary. From Donato I still had so much to learn, because there is never an age when one finishes learning. Is this your last lesson? I don't think so, because I think that, in today's memory, for many people there might be the incentive to continue learning from people like you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u30	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the premature disappearance of Donato Bruno has shaken me deeply. I knew about his illness, but the news of his disappearance struck me in the heart. Besides being a brilliant colleague, he was a real friend. We spent so many years together in the parliamentary classrooms, but even more profound was the private bond that has been established between us. Donato Bruno belonged to an intransigent vision of politics and his role as parliamentarians, attentive to the form and substance of the rules and behaviors, faithful to a thoughtful elaboration of his own political thought and, for these reasons, constantly available to confront the different positions. He was a high-value parliamentarians, always protagonist to both the opposition and the majority. I have a personal memory of Donato Bruno in the seventeen years I spent together with the Chamber of Deputies and, above all, in the ten years in which he was President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, of which I myself was a member. I remember his great balance, his ethics as a deep connoisseur of law, his irony end and his education and courtesy, proper to those who are mild in ways and determined in the merit of their ideas, which is the distinctive feature of a decent and loyal person. I have always admired the way in which he was also confronted with those who had different opinions and, therefore, dysentery. He treated everyone with respect and grace. Staying in his ideas, but alien to the preconceptions, open to the search for understandings and yet never available to low-profile agreements. Sometimes such definitions are abused, but for Donato Bruno it would not be possible to say otherwise. It is undoubtedly true that with its sudden disappearance Parliament and politics must see a loss that would be irreparable, if it were not for public and institutional acts that preserve what he said and did and that leave it to us with the warning to respect this heritage. Its competence has been of irreplaceable effectiveness in the parliamentary and political debate on institutional and constitutional issues. Donato Bruno, as President of the Constitutional Affairs Committee of the House of Deputies, had often taken on the role of rapporteur for the most important and sensitive measures and never shunned from taking on top responsibility. This role has been made possible by the deep knowledge of parliamentary regulations as an indispensable condition for the proper formation of political and legislative opinions and choices. Donato Bruno was always convinced of the need for reforms of our institutional and political system and has made an important contribution to these objectives. What will be more difficult to renounce will be his friendship, his never banal jokes and his intelligence, which was the reason for his seriousness and consistency. Today that the Senate is faced with choices of profound reform of its role and nature, he would have been an essential reference, just as he was in the delicate and challenging phase that, as we know and we can all witness, saw him as an authoritative protagonist, when the confrontation on constitutional reforms and electoral law began. My remembrance is therefore a heartfelt tribute and a due recognition which I firmly believe in its political history and human qualities. On behalf of the For the Autonomous Group, which I chair, I therefore express my deepest and most heartfelt condolences to the family present here. All I have to say is, dear Donato, we're gonna miss you so much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u33	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, on behalf of myself and the Senators of the Mixed Left Group, Ecology and Freedom, I would first like to express to the family, wife and children of Senator Bruno the most heartfelt solidarity and personal closeness. We were particularly impressed by the disappearance of Donato Bruno and, in fact, we also wanted to return to Rome to participate in the funerals. I met President Donato Bruno when he was President of the Constitutional Affairs Committee of the House of Deputies, although I was a senator. However, I was better able to appreciate it and to know it more deeply in the last two and a half years, participating together in the work of the Senate's Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Personally, I had the opportunity to appreciate his legal competence, his political intelligence and the political passion that characterized him - and I would like to remind him here - and that he had allowed him to combine his political militancy with his professionalism. However, being a competent Member of Parliament also allowed him to be always open to dialogue. He was a loyal opponent. In recent years we have often, perhaps almost always, been on very different positions, but also in the most difficult situations - I am thinking of the discussion of constitutional reforms last year - we have been able to see him working in his predisposition to build bridges, always looking for a dialogue. The quality that struck me most in recent years, however, was his lordship. Donato Bruno was a true gentleman at a time when it is difficult to trace this quality, especially in politics. So loyalty, lordship and a great humanity. When he came back after a few weeks of absence for the disease, all of us and I first asked him how he felt. After reassuring us all about his health, he reprimanded me, promising myself that I would not smoke so much and that I would begin to reduce. He invited me to think about affections, the family and to prepare me to be healthy. In all these years we have also been able to appreciate his other distinctive trait, his irony, which many have remembered, so with a joke he was able to dedramatize even the most difficult situations and the harshest conflicts. So today's memory is not one of many that you make. We remember Donato Bruno with pain and with the affection he deserved, because he was a kind, polite and competent person who we will miss very much in the continuation of our work in this legislature. Once again, we express our solidarity with the family and the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u36	LIUZZI (CoR). Mr President, I am here to highlight the personality of Donato Bruno few and measured aspects, as it was in the nature of man, professional, father of family, friend, politician. In all, in fact, Donato was and proved to be sober, of simple speech, of contained eloquence, always prone to concreteness. Even in the manifestation of sentiments he was a park; if anything, the intensity of his saying and of nourishing feelings of respect, consideration, curiosity and interest towards others was deep, conspicuous and authentic. A concreteness that was carried inside since the little one. Born and raised in the first post-war period in a town in the South at the end of the 1950s, he knew the discomfort and hopes of uprooting, that is, leaving the place of childhood - Walnuts, in the Province of Bari - to arrive in a great urban reality in hectic transformation, although deeply marked by the wounds and mourning of the war. The capital of Italy represented for thousands of southern families a landing place, a second homeland, combining the appeal of its ancient historical and religious greatness with the longing spread to the reconstruction and realization of democratic life, which would ensure progress and widespread well-being. On the day of his death, in the morning, I met in my city, which had been his city, an elderly acquaintance; he asked me about the state of health of Senator Bruno. Strange coincidence is the wandering of the thoughts of this person turned to the past, on the day he worked to help the Bruno family to move to Rome, remembering the little Donato sitting in a box on the engine compartment of the motorcar loaded with family and masserizie, who at night gives goodbye to the lump of houses and affections of the small Apulian center and winds up, after hours of strenuous journey, on the hairpin bends of Irpinia, to overcome the day after the Apennines in view of the final destination. In that story, so emotionally involved, I see Donato, his southernity, his curiosity and his young ambitions for the future. In the middle of his maturity, returning from established professional in the alleys of the historic center of Noci, Donato lingered not little in breathing the aura of the native places. Parliamentary elected of the college, he worked with interest in the interpretation of the popular and social vocations of the administrative and economic life of that Puglia that is to the south-east of the Province of Bari, limited by the Adriatic sea and the hill of the trulli; occasional but concrete interlocutions, all aimed at problem solving. I have been his mayor for ten years and many have been the occasions when the then deputy Bruno shared situations, intercession for individuals and for the community, favored political-administrative aggregations, declaring and practicing willingness to confront and dialogue. Some public works carried out in my trade union mandates have been carried out for the intervention of Mr Bruno. At Palazzo Madama we arrived together, at the beginning of the XVII legislature, at the end of an electoral ride that saw us protagonists and proud interpreters of a change. I have known the parliamentary work of Senator Bruno, I have appreciated his institutional and human grace, I have recognized in his working in the meetings of the Commission the precious contribution to the cause and the facilitation of the processes of formation of the laws, the legal contribution, the exercise of logic and the experience of life. Peaceful, tolerant, consumed in parliamentary dynamics, expert in the interweaving of optimal legislative orders, Senator Bruno, lending himself methodologically to the collaboration with the opponents, has provided an original rift to the understanding of the difficult times that we live. The political acumen, the psychological study of the institutional framework, the never vulgar belonging have marked his doing and his saying, in the Chamber and outside this House, on the territories and in the party. His attitude at the time of the decisions, i.e. I personally and his Conservative and Reformist colleagues, has been very respectful and respectful of the choices. I have expressed my intention and interest in new ways, new ambitious and legitimate concerns in the exercise of politics and the general interest. I felt in Donato a sense of closure, an incessant question of the inevitability of destinies; his earthly day was to be concluded with this wrath, with the unsolved riddle. There remains and remains to me its singular human and civic history, the character irony and Bonomy, the intelligent exercise of relationships and relationships. We of the Conservatori Group, Italian Reformists, once again hold around his family, dear Paola, his sons Nicola and Riccardo, his daughters-in-laws and his beloved grandchildren, in the everlasting memory of his companion, our friend and my friend. We're gonna miss you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u39	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, I will not dwell much on the political-institutional excursus of Donato Bruno, of his friend Donato, but I would like to remind you that he was considered one of the most lucid and profound legal minds of Forza Italia. Kind ways, peaceful smile; who knew him well as I remember, however, the iron character, the coriaceous character of his ideas. In Parliament he is entrusted with the most sensitive political cases: the Presidency of the Commission of investigation on the events of the G8 of Genoa and the death of Carlo Giuliani. In the same year he was elected President of the Constitutional Affairs Committee of the House; then, in 2006 he became President of the Assembly of the Elections and of the Council for the Rules of the House. Donato had a very precious virtue: that of having sided without ambiguity, indeed claiming the pride of his own ideas and of his own belonging, and at the same time of not being biased and knowing how to recognize the reasons of others. He was a person endowed with a great, solid common sense, excellent capacity for moderation that, combined with a great legal preparation, had put him at the center of the most delicate and complex negotiations of our political and institutional life of recent decades. Donato was a sort of president of harmony in difficult, complicated moments. With a joke he managed to relieve tension and quell polemics, sometimes even burning, but never losing control of himself and appearing excessively biased. A smile on the lips that we will never forget, with a characteristic tone of low, deep, persuasive but wise voice. Even in the last phase of his political life the Senate had the honour of hosting him in this branch of Parliament, after his political life had taken place mainly in the other branch. Those who speak to you had the honour of having him in their Group as the Parent Company and I got to know him even more. I will miss a friend, whose funerals I could not be present - and I apologise to the relatives present here - for an objective impossibility, but Renato Schifani was there; there was the New Right Center and the affection of those who recognized in him, Mr President, that great capacity that would probably have been very useful in these days when we are called to solve strategic problems for the future of our country: constitutional reforms. The wisdom, the acumen of Donato Bruno, who saw the dialectic not as antithesis but as a capacity for synthesis, will probably be lacking, and I am sure that this Assembly, precisely in memory of a person who is no longer there, but who remains in our hearts, and remains with its history and its capacity within us and within this House, precisely in memory of this will succeed in giving the best of itself to give the country a widely shared constitutional reform, which is the result of confrontation and not of confrontation. Let's do it for Donato Bruno. Let's do it for a person who believed in politics, in his ideas; he believed in institutions and honored them. We'll miss him. I associate myself with the pain not only of the family but of the friends and colleagues of Forza Italia, who mourn their great companion, their great militant, one of the founders of that party. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u42	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, of course, everyone is struck by the premature disappearance of a colleague, a person with whom, even in the radical diversity of views, we have been confronted every day. It certainly did not allow us much politically, but, to be honest, so much on the personal side. Irony and competence are two virtues that, combined with the assiduous presence, we have been able to appreciate. Therefore, on behalf of this group of citizens elected to the 5 Star Movement, without rhetoric and with great simplicity and sincerity, I express our condolences to the family present in the stands of Senator Donato Bruno, his friends and colleagues of his political Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u45	FINOCCHIAR (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your speeches have certainly outlined the identity of Donato Bruno very precisely. I have had the privilege of working with him for about twenty years, first in the House and then in the Senate, I would like to add something that probably stems exactly from this custom of work and also from the climate of respect and mutual respect that bound us. I do so on behalf of my Group and, in particular, on behalf of my colleagues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Many have focused on the fact that Donato Bruno was a loyal opponent. It certainly was. It has never happened to me, in twenty years of work, in which we obviously moved from often harshly opposed positions, a single episode of disloyalty. I think it was not just a formal attitude, but also a spontaneous inclination. It revealed, I believe, a trait of President Bruno's personality, which I have had the opportunity to grasp with great clarity in so many years of common work. Donato Bruno always made me think about the printer of Borges' poem, which composes the page well, even if maybe he doesn't like it. He had a love for the job well done, which was also born from the great respect for the function he performed and for the place where he performed it, which led him to always have the warning that this path towards the result was not polluted by those who are - and we know - the customs and sometimes the games of politics. This inclination was so sincere - despite each of us having more grasped in his will to show it than in its essence a disenchant with respect to the world and to the movement of things - and he was so strong that he could sometimes even amaze us. I remember - and Mrs Lo Moro will remember it as well as I do, because they were, as well as dear friends, also co-rapporteurs in the first attempt to reform the electoral law in this branch of Parliament (the one that was then interrupted because the provision was resumed in the House) - the enthusiasm (forgive if I use an adjective that may seem out of place with respect to the person and context) childish: her joy of building, at a time when the issue was really closed, even in her political dynamics, within the Commission, a job well done and as much as possible shared. President Calderoli will also remember that. There was just a joy of doing so, which was caught in the gaze and the way it proceeded in the work. He could also do it because he enjoyed a great respect, for a reason that is always the elementary, primitive one I would say: he had respect. Respect was the amount with which it turned to anyone, political opponents, comrades and party colleagues. [[Applause.]] And I think of those who believe that authoritativeness is built instead on the lack of respect, sometimes on arrogance and sometimes on arrogance. He was not a bully; he had a great awareness of himself and did well because he had all the reasons for it, as he was a man of great intelligence, of great competence, of great sharpness, of great speed. I do not hide, indeed I like to say it, that many times, being President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and his political opponent opposed to the majority, if I was going to make a mistake in the conduct of the work, a mistake that would have prejudiced or could affect the result, even just because it altered the climate with which we moved, he pointed out to me: sometimes it was a speech of half words that I understood, sometimes it was even just a look, a gesture. He was sitting in front of me on the right and of course it was a reference to me; we often crossed eyes. Many have also remembered that he was a very funny person. It was ironic, of course, of an irony nourished by this disenchanted look on the world that, however, was never indifference: you are never indifferent when you are so attentive to the result and even when you are so respectful of people really. I remember how many times even our work (it was remembered yesterday by Senator De Petris and someone else did) risked to get stuck in a tension that continued to rise: his irony and his jokes often in Romanesque led us to a liberating laughter that crushed those tensions and somehow restored the starting conditions so that our work could be carried out as it had to be done. It was an example of how civil society - not always, but in this case yes - offers high-quality, high-quality people to the Republican institutions. It's not always like that. I am now going to express an absolutely personal position. Although it is clear that I am speaking on behalf of my Group at the moment, what follows is my opinion: it would have been a good constitutional judge. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), CoR, GAL (GS, PpI, FV, M) and LN-Aut]] He had the qualities, the competence and also the ability, about which Senator Volpi spoke, to realize the weight, the responsibility, the gravity that it is up to everyone who plays a role, a function so delicate. My Group therefore extends its deepest condolences to the family and to the Forza Italia Group and I believe that my work, our work in the Commission, will not be the same. [[Stretch applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u46	In renewing the expressions of deep condolence to family members, I believe that I must suspend the sitting briefly before we resume our work. (The sitting was suspended at 10:53 a.m. and resumed at 11:02 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u47	Colleagues, let's resume our work. I call the rapporteur on draft law No 2009, Senator Del Barba.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law laying down provisions for the adjustment of the budget of the State and the budgets of the autonomous administrations for the financial year 2015 is examined by the Senate of the Republic at first reading. It contains three articles, accompanied by a table and annexes with reference to the estimates of revenue and expenditure, broken down by departments and autonomous administrations, and constitutes the instrument for updating the budget appropriations determined in the middle of the year in accordance with the criteria of competence and cash, with provisions relating to missions and programmes. The changes that are titled in the draft settlement law and which are the subject of the parliamentary assessment for approval or amendment are naturally due to the update of the macroeconomic framework that I outlined in the DEF 2015 last April and benefit from the availability of up-to-date information on the performance of public finance as well as the new needs of the central administrations that have since occurred. The adjustment for 2015 is as a whole: the changes in the consistency of the active and passive residues as of 1 January 2015, which result taking into account both the residues from years prior to 2014 and the residues of new training (related to the financial year 2014); the changes introduced in the budget in the period January-May 2015 as a result of administrative acts (funding, reassignment to the expenditure of sums flowing in revenue, implementation of specific rules of law); the changes that have their specific title in the draft law under consideration made to the forecast of revenue and expenditure, as a financial effect of the dynamic tax revenue and interest expenditure, the adjustment of the macroeconomic framework compared to the estimates of the 2015 DEF. All proposed changes are consistent with the respect of the programmatic public finance balances being the impact on the needs and net debt already considered in the trend forecasts of public finance. Compared to the initial forecasts, during 2015 there was an improvement in terms of competence of the data on the net balance to be financed and the use of the market, while a slight deterioration concerns the budgetary balances for public savings and the primary surplus, given that the latter still remains largely positive and among the best recorded among the Member States of the EU. In cash terms, on the contrary, the balances show a negative change from the initial forecasts. This is part of a macro-economic and public finance framework which is clearly improving compared to the recent past, but which still does not benefit from the positive effects of the return to growth of gross domestic product. Coming to the numbers, in terms of competence, the net balance to be financed shows a positive change of 1,313 million, from about -53,6 billion to about -52,3 billion euros. With regard to public savings, the forecast is 4.2% worse. Market use data show a positive impact on the balance of € 7.358 million, rising from just under € -303.2 billion to around -295.8 billion. Entering more on the merit of the main variations between the revenues and the expenses, regarding the data of the final revenues, the bill records a positive variation of the same for 9.68 billion euros, because of the adoption in the course of the year of administrative acts and a negative variation for 3.09 billion euros, as a result of a contraction of the tax revenues for 3,953 billion euros and an increase of those non-taxable ones for 863 million. The final revenue therefore goes from an initial forecast of EUR 516,735 billion to EUR 523,325 billion. With regard to tax revenues, the same are increasing by 7.4 billion euros due to the adoption of administrative acts in the course of the year and a decrease of 3.953 billion euros due to the reduction in the course of the year of 1,366 billion euros of direct taxes and 2,587 billion euros of indirect taxes. In particular, the major changes relate to: IRPEF (up by 424 million); IRES (down by 2,358 million); VAT (down by 2,505 million); substitute taxes on capital income and capital gains provided for in Article 3 of Law No 662 of 1996 (up by 891 million); withholding tax on profits from legal persons (down by 118 million); registration tax (up by 310 million); stamp tax (up by 393 million); excise duty on energy products (down by 1,267 million); excise duty on natural gas (down by 478 million); excise duty on tobacco (down by 353 million); gambling revenue (up by 600 million) and gaming equipment (up by 223 million). With reference to the extra-tributary revenues, the increase comes mainly from the participation in the operating profits of the Bank of Italy (in increase of 924 million euros), the dividends due from the companies participated (in increase of 267 million euros), while the competition to the public finance of the Regions with ordinary statute is reduced. As regards the figure for final expenditure, it is the result of a change of EUR 8.86 billion due to the adoption of administrative acts in the course of the year, offset by a proposal for a settlement of EUR 3.58 billion. The final expenditure therefore goes from an initial forecast of EUR 570,382 billion to EUR 575,659 billion. Compared to the initial forecasts, current expenditure increased by 12.86 billion euros and capital expenditure by 233 million euros, while interest expenditure decreased by 7.8 billion euros. Particular emphasis is placed on the scale of the reduction in interest expenditure, due to the substantial fall in interest rates on government bonds, to EUR 5.434 billion, and interest on current treasury accounts to EUR 2.6 billion. The amount of expenditure has a significant impact on the increase in transfers to pension funds, amounting to EUR 2,952 billion, resulting from the effect of pension revaluations and other pension charges on the basis of the principles set out in the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 70 of 2015, which was promptly followed by Decree-Law No 65 of 2015. On the other hand, in line with the cash forecast for 2015, net of accounting and debit adjustments and VAT refunds, changes in cash permits mean, compared to the initial forecasts, a worsening of all balances. The magnitude of the worsening of the net balance to be financed is about 23.5 billion euros, from the approximately 113 billion euros of the initial forecasts to 136.6 billion euros. Of a similar percentage also worsens public savings, with a change in absolute terms of little more than 15 billion euros (from about less 75 billion euros to about less 90 billion euros), while the need to resort to the market shows an increase of 17.8 billion euros, reaching the amount of more than 380 billion euros; the primary surplus goes from less 25.7 billion euros, to less 56.8 billion, with a worsening percentage of more than 120 percent. The divergent trend of cash balances compared to those of competence is attributed by the explanatory report, as it could be deepened in the debate in the Budget Commission, to a plurality of factors, such as: greater allocations on the chapters of transfers to families, for the credits used by employers as a reduction of the tax wedge for employees and assimilated in 2014, i.e. the famous 80 euros; greater intermediate consumption, mainly linked to the additional amounts allocated to the Fund for the operation of educational institutions; resources to be allocated to the regions to restore the allocations remodulated by the chapters related to VAT sharing and the National Health Fund and for the payment of passive residues related to VAT sharing and the Vertical Internal Stability Pact; greater contributions to investments for enterprises; acquisitions of financial activities; contributions to investments for municipalities affected by the earthquake of April 2009 and amounts to be allocated for the financial return plan of the Municipality of Rome; greater transfers to central administrations, mainly for the payment of residual amounts in favour of the ordinary fund for institutions and research institutions. Turning to the residual liabilities for the final expenditures of the state budget, their consistency at 31 December 2014 is 112,792 million euros, with an increase, compared to the consistency of the end 2013, of 35 percent, which affects both those of the current part, for 15,560 million, and those of the capital account, for 13,582 million. The residuals of new formation represent little less than 68 percent of the total and are at least 76,6 billion euros, recording an increase, with reference both to the current part (+11,8 billion euros approximately) and to the capital account (+6,3 billion euros). Finally, considering the individual provisions of the Senate Act 2009, it consists of three articles which intervene on certain provisions of the budgetary and stability laws for the financial year 2015 (Law No 191 of 23 December 2014 and Law No 190, respectively). In particular, it should be noted that Article 2 amends the budget law for 2015, providing that in paragraph 7 of Article 2 of Law No 191 of 2014 the amount of 1,200 million is replaced by the amount of 1,500 million. This increase concerns the fund provided for in Article 27 of Law No 196 of 31 December 2009, which is necessary for the reassignment of the residual liabilities of capital expenditure eliminated in previous years by administrative peremption. This fund has thus increased by EUR 300 million. Finally, Article 3 provides that in order to meet the indispensable needs that are manifested in the course of the management, the endowment of the appropriate fund referred to in article 1, paragraph 200, of the law of stability for 2015, has increased to 255,295,088 euros for the year 2015. The work in the Budget Committee has highlighted, with the intervention of the Government and Deputy Minister Morando, that the need for such adjustment of the Fund is motivated by the desire to restore a fair sum for the forecast of interventions of an emerging nature.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u49	We greet the representatives of the association "Norberto Bobbio" in Pordenone, today present in the Senate. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u50	I declare the joint general discussion open. Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u51	Mr President, I believe that in this debate we should start with the report which is the result of the work done in the Budget Committee. One of the initial steps of this report in relation to the 2014 statement clearly highlights the situations of the state accounts and this settlement. It is stated by the rapporteur, with a text approved by the Commission, that all balances show a deterioration compared to the results achieved in 2013. This is the premise for budgetary adjustment, which therefore shows a very worrying and negative situation, quite different from the one that emerged in a very soft way in the reports that were presented a moment ago by the rapporteurs and the image of the country that is given by the President of the Council, the Government and this majority. Numbers, as they often say, can't lie. The net balance to be financed from the State budget for 2014 has a negative value of almost €53 billion, with a deterioration compared to the 2013 balance of almost €25 billion. Basically, the figure has doubled. Public savings, which should be significant and positive within the economic policy pursued by a responsible Government, decreased by more than 21 billion, for a conjunction of causes: the increase in current expenditure (the State spends even more, beyond the proclamations, spending reviews and all considerations on these issues) and the decrease in current revenues. Here, too, there is a paradoxical situation, in which attempts to levy taxes by the Government towards citizens increase, but the ability of the community to pay taxes in the treasury decreases. Indeed, when the tax burden exceeds certain acceptable limits, this clearly causes the failure of the assets and the impossibility of paying what would be necessary for the financing of the State. The recourse then to debt by the State in 2014, therefore in the year just passed - and this is one of the most significant and most worrying data - is equal to 260 billion, with 61 billion more than in 2013: a huge figure, which goes just to indicate that the public spending policies adopted last year by the Government have been financed to a large extent, not through the reduction of other sectors of the expenditure itself, but exclusively with an irresponsible and very high increase of the indebtedness by the State. State spending on GDP, i.e. on the country's ability to produce wealth, increased from 48 percent in 2013 to 50 percent in 2014. These are a series of very negative numbers, which give rise to great concern in those who should have the responsibility to manage the accounts of the State and who, on the other hand, by the rapporteurs - beyond what is written in the reports, in which it is inexorably stated - seem to me to have been highlighted with optimistic words, but absolutely out of place. The Court of Auditors' report, which is very critical, is attached to the general statement and budgetary adjustment. It talks about irregularities and problems, both with regard to the surplus of expenditure and with regard to expenditure in the absence of budget appropriations, with a number of very specific observations, which have not been mentioned and which I shall not go here to list, but which clearly demonstrate a serious and worrying situation, with regard to which there is no bias: and we are not talking here about the opposition's position, but about an institution such as the Court of Auditors, which certainly has more competence than many of us in evaluating what is being carried out in a correct and positive way, and what is of concern and deserves further consideration. The Court of Auditors' report is very negative and should be the subject of important reflections on the part of those who govern and have the responsibility to manage public finances and citizens' funds. The public debt has increased sharply: at the end of 2014 it has reached 2,135 billion euros, that is almost 100 billion more than in 2013. The impact on GDP has increased from 128.5 in 2013 to 132.1 in 2014, with an increase of 3.6 percent in a year: never has this figure been so high in the history of the Republic. These figures show the inability to manage public resources in a continuous activity of spending without reducing waste: an initiative of the Government exclusively linked to the objective of remaining afloat in the consensus of the public, obviously leaving to the posterity, the successive governments the responsibility to improve the situation. This is one of the main causes for which we find ourselves in the current very serious situation of public finance: the governments that have succeeded each other over the decades, not always, but often and willingly, have adopted policies aimed exclusively at the preservation of consensus and not at solving problems. The current government from this point of view is not opposed to the trend, on the contrary, it is exacerbating this situation with little sense of responsibility, not so much towards the institutions, but the citizens it should represent. The fact that the decline in public saving of resources is clear shows that, beyond the cuts to local authorities contained in all the measures of recent years - not least the financial law passed last year - and the very considerable reduction of resources managed by Regions and Municipalities, which is in the eyes of all and which is obviously causing great concern, especially by the mayors, who are really in difficulty in erring the essential services to citizens by now, there is, however, an increase in expenditure evidently linked to poor management of resources at central level and the inability to reduce the costs in excess. And it is particularly unpathetic and particularly incorrect on the part of the President-in-Office of the Council to point out the waste of local authorities (he has been doing so constantly since he was elected), in this skillful attempt, certainly not appreciable, to shift public attention to the possible shortcomings of local administrators, who are instead finding themselves in increasingly difficult situations, caused by a reduction in the resources available to them. The expenditure that the government and the central state are managing is in contrast and increases inexorably. Indebtedness is out of control and the start-up of loans compared to 2014 has increased by 9.5 percent: an enormity, perhaps never recorded in all previous years. Expenditure on territorial autonomy (Regions and Municipalities), beyond the recent newspaper articles that highlighted who knows what waste and waste, obviously with a skilful communication move by the Government, weigh 24.9 percent in 2014, compared to 25.2 percent in 2013. This is perhaps the only figure in decline in government spending compared to all other missions that are highlighted. So the transfers to the territories decrease, while the costs of organizing the state apparatus increase. The appropriations for important policies, those actually directed at citizens, are falling: public order and security, the right to mobility, school and university education and social policies for the family. The only rising expenditure data are those listed in the statement, i.e. budgetary economic and financial policies. This generic item, behind which a series of interventions are enclosed that are not listed, is on the increase, just as the sums destined for other missions (an absolutely generic item too) are increasing, where there is the largest increase, equal to +2.5 percent. This is an impetuous analysis, made precisely through the reading of the budgets of the State, which highlights the inadequacy of the economic policies of this Government. Then, with respect to the possibility of allocating resources, there is a voice that is authorized, that is, the allocation of additional resources for the financial return plan of the City of Rome. This is a constant of the economic and financing activities of this Government. Faced with the inability to manage well the resources of Roman citizens and Italian citizens by the local administrators of the city of Rome, what does the Government do to correct the situation? It gives other resources, gives more money, gives other funds, the result of collecting taxes on citizens. Therefore, maladministration is rewarded, in a constant choice on the part of this Government, which finds no other solution than to finance the waste and not to question an administration that is absolutely inadequate in the eyes of all and should leave the pace to free elections, allowing citizens to choose a better, more attentive and more appropriate mayor, and a group of administrators not related to the evil, but eager to administer well the resources of the citizens. It is also relevant - as the report states - that the state's balance sheet should deteriorate in cash terms. The effects of the split payment are unclear; they are not clearly defined, within this adjustment, what are the actual positive results of this choice. Let us also remember that there is still a problem, which will be highlighted towards the citizens, linked to a safeguard clause that was due to expire in June, whose deadline was postponed until the end of September - we have now - of a considerable amount: it is 1.716 billion which, if not adequately covered, will cause the increase in excise duties, particularly on petrol. The comments of the Budget Committee's technicians show that this coverage has not yet been identified and clarified. What should have been the effect of the so-called reverse charge, on which there is a whole series of comments from the European institutions, is expected, with the risk, therefore, that that safeguard clause will need to be used with increased excise duties, beyond all commitments and good intentions, in words and chatter, of the President-in-Office of the Council to reduce the tax burden. There is another considerable reduction in expenditure on capital expenditure, classified and highlighted by the budgetary adjustment, which concerns some investments which, on the other hand, had to be strategic: the reduction of resources - for example - for the renewal of rolling stock (less 365 million investments) and the reduction of intervention for public health building (less 285 million). Well, I believe that a state that increases public expenditure, reduces resources to local authorities and is no longer able to invest in strategic sectors such as the rail network, to be adapted, and health building, which is in a situation in some cases worrying, is moving towards failure, total failure and, in words only, expresses an absolutely unjustified optimism. The government, therefore, with its choices, or rather not choices, causes a worrying increase in public debt and debt out of control. Public expenditure is increasing and strategic investment is decreasing. The balance sheet numbers you have submitted to us are the accounts of a failed state, managed by an absolutely irresponsible and swearing bankrupt curator. Renzi sells only chatter and illusions to the citizens, who, however, are rightly angry and tired of the Premier's false promises. The situation in the real country is totally different from that which the Premier has given us on television and in the newspapers, which - in my opinion - are overly complacent to him. The situation is serious, and these numbers clearly bear witness to it and show it in all its drama. Certainly the numbers can be interpreted and even rigged: we have seen states that have done so and the consequences they have suffered (Greece is one of them, and it is clear what has happened). But the real life of the country is before everyone's eyes: the situation is not improving, unemployment is still one of the most negative factors, although international conditions are among the best of the last ten years (the cost of oil, the exchange of the euro). The truth is that things are not getting better, state accounts are getting worse, people's lives are not changing for the better, employment is not taking off. The government - in our opinion - has only done damage with its economic policies has worsened the situation and the state accounts, so we hope that it will remove the disturbance as soon as possible. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u52	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u53	Madam President, I think it is worth saying a few things, especially as regards the data provided in the documents and regulatory measures under consideration, particularly in the general statement of the State administration for the financial year 2014. I would point out - and I think all of us should agree on this - that there is no doubt that there are conflicting features within the current economic and financial path, some of which are certainly positive, which may concern - for example - the scale and impact of interest costs on debt, and others which are always concerned about this issue, such as the size of debt and the ratio of GDP to public debt. Moreover, we can find some positive elements concerning the solution and activation of tax reduction processes, a better distribution of wealth (insufficient and inadequate, however, that exists) and other data that continue to worry: on the one hand, an imposing effort on the reduction of public expenditure but, on the other, a non-correspondent growth of the country's overall economic activity, the development of the economy and employment. We are, therefore, faced with a situation in which I do not want to say that there is a stalemate, but certainly a difficulty. The crisis has not passed and we are faced, in any case, with problems that we must solve and with results that are absolutely not satisfactory compared to some initiatives that we have also shared and which were, moreover, mandatory, for which, if we had done nothing, we would probably have had to pay a price for action by the European Union. I am referring in particular to the affair of the commercial debts of public administrations, which was one of the issues that we put in place at the beginning of the parliamentary term and which was then dealt with by the special Commission which had been set up pending the establishment of the permanent ones provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. The state has intervened with a significant dimension of appropriations in relation to something that we would still like to understand in detail, and we would like the government to give us a detailed account in this regard. The problem of payment of the commercial debts of the public administration is, I think, affected by two elements. On the one hand, we have not yet succeeded, on the other hand, we are a little far from having put in place a system that pays, exactly as provided for in the laws and obligations of the Community, commercial debts to businesses. On the other hand, the financial mass introduced on the market has not developed those positive effects that we would have expected in part from the private sector in terms of investment, in terms of the effective growth of the economy and the positive effects that this growth would have on employment. The other element I want to deal with secularly concerns the 80 euros. I am not one of those who argued that the EUR 80 was a disgrace to employees. On the contrary, I have always supported the view that the 80 euros in the pocket of an employee every month are a positive element, because - there is also a study in this regard that I suggest to read, produced by a Sassarian economist - activates an area of expenditure that, in general, takes place with the credit system, a installment. The employee of a normal family, who lives with a low income, with 80 euros per month buys the new washing machine or refrigerator that has broken; if needed, pays in installments the books of their children who do high school (for those of the university it takes more). It is not, therefore, true that it does not affect consumption, but the impact is very limited compared to an overall development of our economy that does not satisfy. Moreover, in the report to the account there is no mystery of all the forecasts missed in recent years compared to optimistic visions of growth and unfortunately negative feedback that, in some cases, in previous years, has proved even with numbers from recession, from strong suffering of the economic system. This affects - and there is no doubt - revenue, but unfortunately also the need to operate expenses not rationally, i.e. not functional to the needs of the country. One of the things worth pointing out is precisely this: it is not the size of public spending itself, which some say must be cut, cut and cut. I want to quote what a friend told me that, as a diplomat, he traveled around the world: once we were in a position to cut off all the waste that happens, including those of our country with our public administrations, we would have a vertical fall in gross domestic product and we would be in ruins, because the economic system that we have put in place also unfortunately feeds on waste and excessive public spending. Therefore, the issue is not the size and rationalization, but rather not to take away from the markets the possibility of growing, orienting that expenditure to solve problems rather than waste. And waste can also be the result of financial resources for the payment of salaries that do not produce a general benefit, but that is not why we have to fire. We must better organize our structures, our administrations, give a more efficient response to citizens, reduce waiting times, better respond to the needs of the business system and to those who had the idea of investing in our country, starting with our entrepreneurs. So I believe that from reading the report to the report and the data we have been given on how we have managed the last few years, which have been difficult for everyone, there is a lesson. In the meantime, we need to make more precise forecasts and, therefore, also to equip ourselves with analysis tools that are not the ones we have used so far. I don't know if it's the responsibility of the people who work there or the robberies that are born in some Ministry undersecretary. The precise forecasts are, however, a useful tool for programming and should not be underestimated. The second point is that - in my opinion - we have not discussed sufficiently, not even in Parliament, what would have served and we have done often on the wave of communication, rather than on the need for solid action to revive the economy and employment. In the final analysis, employment always remains the poor relative: income from work always remains the poor relative of the interventions that we carry out. Instead, it should be what we pay more attention to, because even through a better distribution of the wealth produced, positive growth cycles are determined. And I'm saying that because even there you don't have to fall into the mistake that we've already made under other circumstances. One of the measures taken is decontribution, i.e. the modification of the labour market rules and the decontribution to accompany them. Otherwise, these changes would have been - and I think they will be - totally ineffective in relation to the objective they set themselves. Decontribution is a way of doping the labour market. If I start doping it, I have to keep it drugged over time, unless our economy grows so much that we don't realize that we've taken away an artificial diet. Otherwise, the patient dies. In this next law of stability, I am sure that resources will have to be put back in order to act on decontribution, i.e. to support employment also through the contribution that reduces social security contributions. Otherwise, we would unfortunately have a negative rebound effect. And it is a terrain on which we cannot do so, because it would also have safe and certain effects on revenue. He had them in a disappointing way the operation commercial debts of the public administration, which anyway had to be done and perhaps even better than we did, although the judgment is not negative. And it should be done because the VAT that we have taken also for different reasons was not what we could have expected. We would have a more or less similar effect if we did not support employment and, therefore, also the IRPEF revenue that can derive from the fairer distribution of wealth. This is an increase in revenue, because that is the issue. It is not only - indeed, it is no longer - the compression of expenditure but, if anything, the rationalization of expenditure. It is therefore no longer a problem of how to act on the exit, but on the revenue, that is, how to build the conditions for this country to have qualified in terms of the possibility of intervention in support of investments. There, Mr. Deputy Minister, a chapter should be opened to understand what are the financial allocations for investment, the Structural Funds, the CSFs and whatever else exists in all the coffers, from those of the small municipalities to those of the ministries, which lie firm because of the inability, the timidity and the fear of spending of bureaucracies. If we don't do all this, there won't be 80 euros, IRAP reductions, or other things of that nature that can save our country. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u54	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u55	Madam President, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen, the figures that go to correct the 2015 state budget are essentially negative and the few positives fail to emerge, as they are crushed by the negative ones. The first point I would like to make is that there is no such flagrant little treasure, and we all remember how much the government had set the propaganda machine in motion on this subject. The lower burden on public debt due to exogenous factors - such as the decrease in the spread and the cost of oil and a more favourable exchange rate ratio of the euro than the dollar, which is worth about € 7.6 billion - has been thwarted by completely wrong and above all contradictory economic measures. Another point which I think is important is that the use of the market, i.e. the issue of new government bonds, is increasing by 17.8 billion. It is therefore obvious that, by increasing the debt, we will certainly have consequences for the interest expenditure of 2016. Until Mother ECB will help us with quantitative easing, we will enjoy the benefits. And then, if we do not reduce the mountain of public debt, which is now standing well above EUR 2,200 billion, it will be trouble. Here, then, is another important observation: what are the strategies that the Government intends to put in place to attack one of the real problems of Italy, which is the public debt? The other fact that emerges with drama is that all the other items of final expenditure of 2015 rise. As I mentioned earlier, public expenditure rose by more than 30 billion compared to the initial forecasts, where - I repeat - an effective and surgical action of spending review would have been necessary (but also of this word there is no trace). If we stay on the numbers, we see that the net balance to be financed has deteriorated by 23.5 billion. The 2015 settlement is, therefore, the son of a political line of the Renzi Government absolutely contradictory and is the result of wrong economic policy choices. The most striking example is the unfair IRPEF bonus, which introduced a tax relief only for some - certainly not for the poorest and neediest - but increased taxes for all others. The counterproof of what we are saying is now in President Renzi's recent announcements about the house. For three years the municipalities were forced to increase the taxes on the house, including the main house, on which increases of both ISI and TARI have been recorded, even in the absence of the IMU on the first dwelling. Now Renzi proposes the abolition of taxes on the first house and the bolted machinery, historical programmatic point of President Silvio Berlusconi and Forza Italia. The example of bolted industrial machinery to which the IMU must be paid is striking. It has finally been noticed that this measure was a total absurdity for businesses and a great and unbearable penalty for entrepreneurs. A country that does not invest and does not create conditions so that those who have to invest - entrepreneurs, artisans and professionals - can do so is destined to decline. The data on the steady decline in investment are absolutely worrying. The only ones so far happy with this Government are certainly the elites of banks and finance, but without real economy there is no growth: if it does not definitely resume domestic consumption, this growth will not be there. Similarly, it is necessary to restart the construction and real estate sector, because the data on prices and the number of purchases of houses in constant decrease really make you shudder. Just this morning a RAI broadcast stated the figure of the 50% decrease in sales of the previous year compared to the previous year. That's a fact you're definitely gonna have us interviewed. In this way we are burning a consolidated wealth in decades of saving the Italians invested in the house. Reducing the tax burden on the brick is now an obligatory and no longer deferred choice. All the criticisms that have often been addressed to the Government of Forza Italia are also to be sent back to the sender with great determination. This is definitely one of the great ways to try to take over the country. We therefore call on the Government to engage in a serious, logical and lasting economic policy that sweeps away the many and, perhaps, too many contradictions put in place so far. The priorities are always the usual: to give certainty to the productive part of the country, reducing taxes on businesses and the family, so that the country will return to that liberal condition that Forza Italia has always introduced in its reasoning of political planning. We must do everything to ensure that the country returns to do what it has always done with great sacrifice and with all Italian citizens in recent years: to invest in that great reality that is Italy. But for this we must give confidence to the Italians by performing concrete acts and not by making constant chatter. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u56	She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u57	Madam President, Senators and Senators, we are about to vote on a draft law which, when it does not show striking variations, does not raise great political interest and is considered a due act, technical, even if it remains a fundamental act of public accounting, which should lead to inter-annual reasoning on the achievement of the objectives that are subject to budgetary figures. After the comprehensive reports by the rapporteurs, who have explained the proposed changes well, I would like to make some general comments and some notes on individual items, even if they are small. The text of the bill - as has been said - is very short, being all the contents contained in the annexed tables, which propose the updates of the revenue forecasts and budget appropriations for the year 2015 of competence and cash, which are consequent to acts already adopted by this Senate. They are the update of the macroeconomic framework outlined in the Economic and Finance Document last April, the availability of up-to-date information on public finance developments and the requests made to central governments in relation to the new needs related to their operation. All the changes determine the new forecasts laid down for 2015, which are produced - as in part has already been recalled - by the administrative acts taken from 1 May to 31 May of the current year - therefore, it is still a partial adjustment - and by the financial effects of the new legislative measures adopted after the adoption of the budget law. Something must be said that has not been remembered by anyone, neither by the rapporteurs, nor in the interventions of the minority: it is not at all assumed that the mid-year verification leads to positive variations or a variation, all in all, almost painless like this. The programming activity that implies the figures of the forecast budget has inherent in itself a degree of variability and uncertainty in the realization of the verification of what happens then during the year. In this adjustment, however, the net balance to be financed in 2015 rose from 53.6 billion to 52.3 billion, with an improvement of 1.3 billion. The proposed changes are consistent with the respect of the planned public finance balances both in the state budget and in the net debt of the general government indicated both in the law of stability 2015 and in the document of economy and finance 2015. After months, however, this does not always happen. The impact on the net needs of the proposed changes is, in fact, already taken into account in the trend forecasts for public finance. I will not dwell much on the revenue, on which the rapporteurs have already spoken. Let us see what determines the improvement of the net balance to be financed by examining the largest figures. There are two points to stress. The first is the reduction in expenditure on interest payments, which has already been mentioned in part in other interventions, and the second is the reduction in transfers by the European Union, which is due, however, to the postponement of a decision by Europe and not to a substantial change in expenditure. The reduction in competence costs means a reduction of EUR 3.5 billion, mainly of a current nature. This too must be stressed: there are no changes in investment, but in the current part. In particular, it affects the reduction of interest expenditure - as has already been pointed out - for 7,8 billion euros. This is a very important impact, because we are talking about a large figure. If we had not had the favorable aspects of the decrease in spread and of this happy moment in the conjuncture, we would have had difficulty in covering the inevitable increases in expenditure. This reduction is due, for EUR 5.4 billion, precisely to the updating of the profile of the interest rates of government bonds, which reduces interest expenditure, and for EUR 2.6 billion to the reduction of interest payable on current treasury accounts, also related to the transformation of certain current accounts from fruit and vegetable to fruitless. We then have a reduction of EUR 1 billion in the amount to be paid to finance the European Union's budget. Let us see what the increases in primary expenditure are. The biggest increase is due to the effects of Decree-Law No 65 of 2015 on pensions, social shock absorbers and TFR guarantees, which result in higher burdens on the state budget, which are offset in the reduction of the expenses that we have previously listed. Therefore, we have EUR 2.8 billion in additional expenditure linked to the effects of pension revaluation and other pension effects, in order to implement the principles set out in the Constitutional Court's judgment No 70 of 2015, which was obviously unexpected within the budget. I would also like to make a brief mention of the problem of passive waste, which is usually not very attractive for the ordinary citizen and also for the political debate, because the figures have already been taken into account. Waste management, however, is not so trivial. I would just like to point out that the residues of new formation, the subject of a table that has been given to us, show that, after a first phase of new residues, in 2011 and 2012, there is an increase in them in 2013 and 2014. This perhaps leads us to give greater attention to this sector, which I am particularly following, partly because it is also linked to the issue of the financial effects of maneuvers on local administrations. In fact, about 2 billion euros of residual liabilities concern the local administrations and, in particular, the municipalities and the Provinces, for 1,3 billion euros, of which 627 million euros refer to the sums to be transferred to the special offices for the city of L'Aquila and for the municipalities of the crater and the Municipality of L'Aquila, 145 million euros to the sums to be allocated to the Municipality of Rome for the financial return plan and 104 million euros to the sums to be allocated for the program 6,000 bell towers. All this shows a difficulty in moving from budgeting figures to the ability to close projects within a reasonable time. On the basis of what has been said, I would like to point out which ministries are particularly involved in this adjustment manoeuvre, although there are so many small figures. The first is the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, in relation to the adjustment of interest expenses referred to in the new profile of the rates in force in the international markets of which we have said and to the compensatory remodulation of resources for the regulation of revenue and reimbursement of taxes. The other Ministry particularly involved is that of labour and social policies, in relation to the effects determined by Decree-Law No 65 of 21 May 2015 on pensions. Many minor variations, which are always in the settlement, concern small figures, but I like to remember why some may be significant. There is certainly the whole game related to the games, on which we will have to make a thought. We record an increase in lotto game by 600 million euros, as well as an increase in lotteries and other games by 23 million. This which, from the point of view of revenue, seems to be a positive value, in fact must make us rethink our attitude towards games. The commitment that we had made as a Senate during the examination of other measures was precisely a check on these revenues that are significant - alas - of poor behaviour of our citizens. Our citizens must not be encouraged to play further. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This may seem like good news from the point of view of revenue, but it is not at all good news about achieving an educational objective towards our citizens. Of course, against this there is also an income from taxes on games, because 231 million euros enter the state coffers by that route. Another small but significant item is the increase of EUR 118 million in revenue resulting from the control and repression of irregularities and offences, thus testifying to the increase of this control activity. Equally, we must mention the figure of EUR 1.5 billion, not very small, for support for the development of transport. I promised myself that I would not say anything about the measure linked to the EUR 80 but, since some of the previous interventions called it back, I would like to make an assessment that was not at all obvious last year. Since this measure has become a feature of stability over the years, I would like to point out that recent studies in recent days have pointed out that most of the 80 euros have gone into consumption and increased it. There has therefore been a positive move towards stimulating our market. I think this is an important thing, which was partly known and even said last year, but which no one believed. In making a contribution, even small, to the lowest incomes, we must always remember that these have a much higher propensity to consume. The thing that upsets me is that this cannot be said for compulsory expenditure on pensions. In this area, in fact, as a result of the Constitutional Court's ruling, we give money to categories that are likely to have a much, but much lower, consumption propensity, with the result that the measure will not benefit from an economic stimulus. However, we were obliged to adopt this measure and we did so. I liked to make this joke about 80 euros. I do not go any further because there have been so many points raised by the rapporteurs. In conclusion, we can always do better - and we say so during the examination of every measure - but this bill confirms the good foresight of the 2015 Economic and Financial Document and the 2015 forecast balance sheet. It also testifies to the government's ability to live up to its commitments in terms of income and, above all, expenditure, also addressing emerging problems that are not trivial from the point of view of the impact of the figures (I think, for example, those that emerged in the matter of pensions following the decision of the Constitutional Court). [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u58	We greet the group of deserving students from the Municipality of Vigasio, in the province of Verona, who are here on a prize trip. Congratulations and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u59	The joint general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur on draft law n. 2008, Senator Fravezzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u60	Madam President, I do not go into particular matters, particularly as regards the report, which is a photograph of what has happened objectively. The Government's report, which accompanies the bill, also explains the reasons why some forecasts have not been confirmed with respect to a macroeconomic framework that actually depends on external factors with which any country today, in the global economy, is accounting. Having said that, it is also true that, although the balances have deteriorated compared to 2013, there are positive elements. I am thinking above all of the fact that in the reflection developed in the Commission and that we shared with the Government have been identified of the paths and the roads to be taken, defining the action that the Government can make in a more incisive way linking it to the process of reforms that has been put in place - in particular that of the public administration - in order to get to do an operation of rationalization and redevelopment of the expenditure that for the first time is not - and cannot be - simply a redevelopment intervention with the apparatus of the State and the various administrations that remains substantially unchanged, as has happened in the past. We have the great opportunity, in the context of the reform process that concerns in particular the public administration, to create a strong link between the operation of spending review and the revisiting of the organization itself, responsible with the delegated legislative decrees the internal structure of the public administration, identifying certain results to be achieved also with respect to the action to be put in place. We have a great opportunity not to simply approve a rigid and firm accounting document, as can be a statement. That is why we in the Commission have also tried to be a stimulus - and in this sense we will also monitor the action of the Government - so that the opportunity of the reform process can be accompanied by a virtuous action in the field of accounts. With regard to the provisions for the adjustment of the state budget, on which I imagine Mr Del Barba will speak, 2015 was clearly born under the best wishes, with macroeconomic elements certainly more positive than those of 2014. [[Applause from Senator Sangalli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u61	I call the rapporteur on draft law No 2009, Senator Del Barba.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u62	. Madam President, first of all I would like to thank all my colleagues who have spoken in the debate. Of course, when there are so many numbers at stake, everyone can go and look for the figures that somehow accompany the reasoning they intend to propose. I also understand that someone wanted to emphasize certain figures that were a little heavy during 2015. However, with regard to the state's balance sheet - and I would also like to thank Mrs Zanoni for having mentioned this - the substantive fact cannot certainly be avoided, namely that at a time when account developments and new forecasts are being carried out as regards the next part of the year, all balances are nevertheless respected - as I have already mentioned in the report - an aspect which is certainly not taken for granted if an adjustment is made. Not only that, the improvement in the net balance to be financed is equally significant. Reference was made to the missing treasures, but equally clearly, as regards the cash observations, it was pointed out that there were, after the 2015 DEF, exceptional and relevant events, of which I recalled the entity (I am definitely referring to the social security sector and the relative judgment of the Constitutional Court), which constituted a strong unforeseen element in the programming. Yet these events have been absorbed quickly and effectively, without going to alter the balance and budgetary balances as they had been prepared. Therefore it is certainly confirmed, even with the speeches of colleagues, the substantially positive step, which allows to achieve the objectives and that, although it does not have such obvious repercussions on public finance, it certainly suffers from the recovery of the real economy. In terms of the real economy, citizens and businesses, the numbers are already clear. In terms of public finance, apart from the findings I have just mentioned, they would speak even more clearly than they already do, allowing us to respect the main forecast balances. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u63	Madam President, I too would like to thank the rapporteurs and all those who have spoken in the debate, both with regard to the accounts and with regard to the adjustment. I would like to take up some of the comments that have been made, both to express the Government's judgment on those points, and to point out that not always those observations are based on data that are derived from the statement or the arrangement. I'd start with the statement. What was supported in the first intervention of the Senator of the League Group and in other interventions is absolutely well founded: the statement indicates, compared to the forecast data for 2014, an almost general deterioration. A general deterioration - forgive me the banality - must have a general cause; otherwise that deterioration would have occurred in one sector rather than another, on the volume of revenue compared to the volume of expenditure or vice versa. As this has been a general deterioration, the cause must be - I repeat - of a general nature. And in fact, on the grounds of that worsening, there is a cause of general order. The 2014 budget has not been brought to Parliament by this Government, but there is continuity in government action and every Government protempore must be fully responsible for what has been conducted by the previous Governments (in this case, and in any case, we do). Credibly, in truth, in the phase of the budgetary session and, even before, in the phase of defining the Document of economy and finance by the Government that preceded this, for the programming of public finance 2014, 2015 and 2016, you know that a development of the product had been predicted, that is a not particularly brilliant economic development, but in any case able to reverse the sign, passing from the sign less to the sign more. The truth is that in 2014 we remained, contrary to what had been predicted, unfortunately perfectly immersed in a recessive phase. I want to remember - because I have the impression that even in certain critical expressions there is an underestimation of this chilling fact - that this recessive phase, even considering the two years in which the sign was no less (but that they were still years of stagnation), actually lasted uninterruptedly from 2008 to 2014 and led the country to lose nine points of gross domestic product and ten points of average income per capita. A fall so vertical and so dramatic, in such a limited period of time, not only has never been experienced in the history of our Republic, but such a serious fall of the product and such a heavy reduction of the average income per capita, concentrated over time as happened at this stage, is the most serious episode of this type that has occurred in the history of the unity of Italy, in over 150 years. Therefore, it was expected that from this dramatic situation 2014 would be a year of beginning of a reversal of trend, and instead this did not happen. When this Government established itself, being responsible for the presentation in Parliament of the Economic and Financial Document, the Government of which I honour to be a member did not hesitate to present to Parliament a radical revision of the forecasts on macroeconomic developments, stressing that we would have had a real economic development, unfortunately, much worse than what had been put on the basis of public finance programming at the stage of the previous budgetary session. In this regard, therefore, I would like to stress that the government in office was not reluctant when the real economy showed that, not because of the responsibility of anyone, but because of the development of the real economy, things were going much worse than they had been expected. That correction has, of course, affected the public finance performance of 2014, in the sense of mitigating the distance between the real performance of the public finance data and the forecast, but it has not been able to affect to the point of modifying the forecast balance sheet data which, of course, entering into a significantly more negative context than expected, lead us to the statement that we have presented to your attention and that you are currently examining. That's the point. This situation has raised in today's debate the point that concerns the accuracy and reliability of the forecasts, and many, starting from the North League but also in Forza Italia, have spoken of irresponsible optimism, of a world of chatter to generate positive expectations that would not correspond to the facts, projecting this evaluation on the present and the future. Now, since it is, of course, perfectly legitimate to make such assessments, with regard to more or less responsible optimism, I would like to point out here that it has not been too long since the budget session for the 2015-2018 budget and colleagues will remember - both those who supported these positions and those who opposed them - that the accusation of optimism about the 2015 forecasts was repeated and insisted on during the debate of the last budgetary session. It was then said that, in the presence of an objective trend 2014, we would dream of 0.7%; that we were basing on clay the public finance forecasts of 2015 because we made optimistic forecasts of the economic performance in that year and consequently the forecasts were optimistic also for the following years. It was a legitimate criticism, which drew from what had happened in recent years a significant foundation, but now we have reached more than half of 2015 and you can easily see who was right and who was wrong: the substance is that the Government and the majority were right and you were wrong, you who had argued that for 2015 we had made optimistic forecasts. It is known, in fact, that public finance programming incorporates a product performance for 2015 of more than 0.7. I do not want to predict what will happen in the coming months of 2015, but it is certainly legitimate to see what has happened with regard to gross domestic product and its growth until June 2015. Until June 2015 it happened that the expected growth throughout the year has already been practically achieved. A merely confirming the performance of the product of the previous months (more 0.6 to date) is such that it fully targets the 2016 target. This is important because it has to do with the reliability or not of the figures of the adjustment - the other topic we have discussed today - but attention, there is another: the figures of the adjustment will be those based on the operation of the budgetary session (predisposition of the budget and of the law of stability) for 2016 and the following years, starting naturally from a verification of the reliability of the forecasts on the evolution of the economy for 2016, 2017 and 2018. I stress this fact because, if we can already say today that the objective of growth for 2015 (mica by virtue of the Government, but by the effort that Italian workers and entrepreneurs have made, the whole of the public administrations in Italy and those who work there and the effort that Parliament has put in place to approve reforms that have had and have an important importance in determining the development of the economy) allows us to say not that in 2015 we will do more than 0,7 that we have foreseen (of course we all hope, but this can not be said because, yes, it would be overoptimistic), but that the objective will be centered (this reasonably we can say), this projects an important light of credibility - that is why it is relevant - also on the target planned for 2016. It is clear that, in the presence of growth as expected for 2016, especially if we have confirmation of some factors outside the country, which have been underlined in this debate, and of their permanence, we can of course reasonably predict that, centered on the growth goal for 2015, this throws a light of credibility also on the forecasts for growth in 2016. Of course, on the one hand, we need the international context better than those of recent weeks, given the instability that comes, in particular, from the Far East, especially on the financial side, and, on the other hand, we need the three external factors, which are not under our control and which support, together with the structural reforms carried out, the country's growth (low-priced oil, quantitative easing, that is, ultra-expansive monetary policy by the European Central Bank, and particularly low interest rates on public debt), are confirmed as positive. At that point, in my opinion, it will be possible to count on structural reforms, those already carried out because they are approved by Parliament (not by the Government) and those to be carried out, all of them, from those related to the reform of the constitutional political system, to those related to the effective implementation of the reform of the public administration, passing through tax reforms and measures that concern the field of justice (to mention the most important things). If those external factors are confirmed and if we are able to keep the pace, very intense and accelerated, of approval of structural reforms, we will have reasonable premises - in my opinion documented in our proposal to settle down and in the reliability of our forecasts on the development of the economy in the coming years - to have a country that returns to an acceptable rate of growth, stable over time, consistent with our tradition. Our tradition is now (fortunately), that of an advanced industrial country, which cannot grow at the rate of 7% compared to the previous year, but which must draw on a steady rate of growth over time close to 2%, because it is what guarantees, among other things, the payment of the huge public debt that weighs on the shoulders of Italian citizens, workers and businesses every time they start their day. I would like to make a further comment, Madam President, on a subject raised in particular in the speech of the League Group, namely the safeguard clauses (you all know what I am talking about): those for 2015 to a large extent already neutralized and especially those concerning 2016. In this regard, too, it is said that the Government's commitments not to trigger them are words, whereas the reality is that these safeguard clauses are written in the budget and therefore threaten the prospects of the country's growth until they are finally removed. Therefore, I think it is right to pay particular attention to this issue, and I would like to thank the opposition groups who have rightly raised this issue. The Government is firmly determined not to trigger the safeguard clauses (which are very significant, i.e. equal to a point of gross domestic product, 16 billion euros, expected in 2016 and those remaining in 2015) for a precise reason and we think that the commitment can be considered to be taken credibly, given the behaviour we had on the safeguard clauses 2015 and 2014 (partly us and partly the Government that preceded us). In fact, to trigger the safeguard clauses would be an insurmountable contradiction, insurmountable compared to the fiscal policy on which we committed ourselves at the time of the formation of the Renzi Government. I am talking about the fact that we have made a commitment that we consider central in the government's economic policy strategy, oriented - the economic policy strategy - to promote (not to achieve, because economic growth does not achieve it by governments, as is known) in any way the country's return on a path of stable growth. For this reason we have said that the fiscal pressure, not the total one but the specific one on the job and the enterprise, is a very serious handicap for the competitiveness of the Country, compared - for example - with a country with the tax pressure on the job and on the enterprise like Germany (which is the first manufacturing of Europe, while we are the second one), that therefore obviously acquires competitive advantages not because of the fact that its enterprises and its workers are better, but the fact that on the Italian companies and workers their competitors weighs a specific tax pressure on the job and on the enterprise that weighs on the enterprises and the German workers. How much revenue do we have to give up structurally, i.e. not with exceptional measures, in order to bring the tax burden on labour and business in Italy to a level similar to that of Germany? We must give up an annual revenue of between EUR 32 billion and EUR 36 billion. This is an important figure, but is it true that it is unreachable, as many claim? The government's argument is that it is not at all unattainable. For this reason, from there we started: first the 80 euros and then we continued, with IRAP, intervening on its tax base and removing from IRAP's tax base the cost of stable labour; because stable and not unstable I am not here to re-explain it, because we have been talking about it for months and I do not insist on this topic. And then we continued with a measure that - be careful - speaks to us of the next decisions that we must take and that is not structural, because it concerns only the taxization of the contributory charges for the newly recruited in 2015 with an indefinite contract provided by the new work plan for the next three years. How much is this set of measures worth? For the structural part (80 euro plus IRAP) it is worth about 15 billion euros. And for the non-structural part, under the regime, if the rate of increase in permanent jobs, by transforming fixed-term jobs, will be that of the first months of 2015, we think it might be worth a little more than what we have actually budgeted to cover this measure of taxing contributions. Which means we got closer to 17-18 billion euros in 2015 alone. This is an important figure, not to return to the decisions taken, but to say that 17-18 billion, even for a non-structural part, is an important figure compared to those 32 or 36 billion needed to adjust the tax burden on labour and business in Italy compared to Germany. It is therefore not unrealistic to continue with a multiannual plan in this direction. A design not contradicted, as I think it, by the measure announced by the President of the Council and which will concern in 2016 the so-called IMU-TASI on the first house. We look, in fact, at the need to support aggregate demand in a context in which, right or wrong, it was (and I think it was largely right) what was done about the increase in capital taxation, it is clear that the expectations of households from the point of view of their consumption have been severely altered by a sudden and concentrated increase in the time of capital taxation even on the first house that, of course, has depressed its prospects. The idea of removing the IMU-TASI (but actually the TASI) on the first house is the daughter of the idea that, without supporting aggregate demand, the risk is that the other measures that we are taking do not have the necessary effect. It is well known, as we have been taught by economists, that expectations are bound to greatly influence the economic behavior of fundamental actors. And it is for this reason that we think about this specific point that the IMU-TASI intervention that we will do in 2016 does not contradict a strategy that in 2017 will see us return to the IRES and IRAP and then complete the design with the intervention on the IRPEF, where we started with the intervention that is an IRPEF intervention, of the 80 euros. For this reason, Madam President, in conclusion, the statement, and above all the adjustment that we have before us, opens the budgetary session in fact, showing the reliability of the action of economic policies of programming and public finance that the Italian Government is carrying out. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u64	Having regard to the timetable and also to the number of speeches at the end of the sitting, the Presidency considers that voting on the articles of the draft law will begin at the afternoon sitting. I therefore refer you to the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in other session. Before giving the floor to the senators who intend to speak at the end of the session, I would like to wish Senator Centinario, who became the father of his first son, Philip, last Saturday. We wish you a life of paternity and wish you well on behalf of this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u67	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, with this speech I would like to call for the answer to an act of inspection union, the written question 4-04216, which concerns the reform of network tariffs and tariff components to cover the general system charges for domestic electricity customers. Why do I urge you? Because the Authority for Electricity, Gas and Water has initiated a procedure for the formation of measures on the reform of electricity tariffs. In the context of this procedure, a first consultation document of 5 February 2015 followed a second one, on 18 June 2015, through which the Authority for Electricity, Gas and Water Services, after collecting and analysing the opinions, reports and criticisms of stakeholders regarding the first report, proposes the final guidelines for the process of reforming electricity tariffs for domestic customers, with the application of the new rules foreseen from 1 January 2016. Now, these new rules have, in my view, very negative effects on families - because, in short, they increase the costs of electricity particularly for the weak groups and lead to very high increases for single-family users, which, in order to give an idea to the Senate Assembly, can be quantified in more than one billion per year - because they encourage the consumption of electricity taken from the grid, so they do not go in the direction of promoting a virtuous attitude on the part of citizens and, finally, they affect the investments already made for self-consumption plants from renewable sources, at the same time canceling the possibility of installing new generation plants distributed from renewable sources. One last fact: in particular in the last two years, more than 50,000 Italian families have purchased and installed photovoltaic systems without incentives on the energy produced, so this type of tariff reform, which is complex and in a few minutes are not able to synthesize, frustrate the interventions and virtuous behaviors that Europe, Italy and all of us hope, even in harmony with the contrast to climate change. I believe, Madam President, that there is enough to call for the answer to the question and also to ask for Parliament to take an interest in this matter, giving a clear political direction. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We'll solicit you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u69	PRESIDENT. - The debate is [[Brusio.]] I have the floor, but before I speak, I ask the House to lower its voice and, to those who do not want to listen, to go out without disturbing too much.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u70	Madam President, it seems that our President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Renzi, wants to blow up the Director of UNAR on Friday, Marco De Giorgi, with the alibi that he would have signed a letter to the Member of the UNAR itself - who would have done his job as National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office - obviously without any intention of censoring it, since, as a Member, he is free to say what he wants, but simply inviting him to consider that certain xenophobic statements and attitudes might have inappropriate reverberations about society. In our view, this is a purely political excuse to punish UNAR for what it has tried to do, namely its work: to inform and combat discrimination. Even the history of small books, famous for teachers, which attracted the government's strangles, seems absolutely out of place and excessive. This is obviously a reprisal which, however, also has a political advantage, i.e. it is a political opportunity for Renzi to debilitate even more the anti-discrimination protection apparatus that the State should have, even in the light of a delicate moment such as the present one, both on the fringe of immigration and on that of civil unions, which we are dealing with with Mrs Cirinna in the Justice Commission. I want to make this complaint, because in this country it is not possible for statements to be made from a certain point of view, obviously for political propaganda also on the civil rights and on the people's skin, while on the other hand an apparatus is being removed instead active for a long time. I've done several surgeries to defend the UNAR to try to increase its activity. We had also asked for a Minister of Equal Opportunities after seeing the abandonment of that Ministry too and instead we find ourselves in this situation. This attitude is shameful and shows that civil rights, anti-discrimination and such fundamental and sensitive issues for our country continue to play mere political games in a context in which Senator Meloni has never spared such exits. The only one who opposed it at this time was the UNAR. Madam President, I call on all my colleagues - the Government is distracted - to take note of our complaint. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Bencini and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u73	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, I would like to make a brief speech on the situation of the housing emergency, especially in the city of Lecce. Several times I have complained about the situations that concern the Lords Laura Critelli and Pietro Scatigna, to which the Municipality of Lecce has not yet given any answer. I ask that an answer be given, whatever it is, and that at least a sign be given. It is in fact impossible that these people are forced to live in a car because they do not have the house and have been evicted. It is impossible that, despite their health conditions, which are very serious, they should live in the car. It is impossible that there are accommodations of the Institute autonomous folk houses that are intended and left in use to people who no longer need them, while there are these people who really need them, as certified by both ASL and other institutional bodies. What I am left with at this moment is a formal request and no longer an appeal, because appeals are not received by the mayor of the Municipality of Lecce or by anyone else who can give us an answer. I formally ask for an answer, whatever it may be, but not for the immobilism that continues to rage in this municipal administration. I'm also pointing out something crazy. The issue related to these cases came to the table of President Mattarella, who gave a signal of solidarity. Moreover, these gentlemen will be received today in the Senate; as a member of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, I will listen to them once again. You have to answer these people one way or another. They cannot continue to live a nightmare, even because of bad politics and absurd management by local authorities. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u76	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I fully support the speech made by Senator Piccoli: these are issues on which we, too, have been insisting as a 5 Star Movement for a long time. My speech will be about the EUR 2 billion that the treasury could collect. It is a message for all Italians who every day struggle to pay ICI and IMU. In fact, this morning we had President Descalzi of the ENI who came to tell us about the supposed benefits for Italians deriving from the discovery of the deposit in Egypt. I use the term "suppositions" because it is still all actually to be demonstrated. What is certain is that in Italy we have about 100 oil platforms that could pay to the treasury two billion euros for the payment of ICI and IMU. In particular, on 3 August, we filed the question 3-02132 in which we point out that the Finance Guard forwarded a statement report to Edison SpA for tax assessment on ICI and IMU for about 30 million euros to the Vega marine platform, at the Municipality of Scicli. There are many municipalities in Italy that have an open dispute over the payment of these taxes and are Pineto, Termoli, Tortoreto, also our Municipality of Gela, Porto Sant'Elpidio, Pedaso, Cupra marittina, Torino di Sangro and Falconara. I repeat that we are talking about the payment of ICI and IMU for about 100 oil platforms that could bring about two billion into the treasury. With this question, of which we ask the answer, we ask the Minister whether he is aware of the imponibilità of this taxation on the works built at sea and the conflict that has been created between the municipalities that ask for the payment of this tax and the oil companies that oppose the stacking and therefore the payment of these taxes. We ask whether it is aware and whether the findings and the tax investigations have been verified to the platforms present in the Italian sea carried out from the Guardia di Finanza and what has been the outcome and whether tax investigations have been carried out relative to the payment of ICI and IMU from the Municipality of Scicli concerned, following the minutes of the observation of the Guardia di Finanza, the Vega marine platform and how much is worth the established figure, that it is the object of the question. Given the importance and the amount of money that could come from these investigations, we urge the Minister's response. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u79	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I urge the Government to respond to the questioning 2-00299 presented on August 5, of which I am the second signatory. This is an interrogation that asks the Government what measures it intends to take regarding the fact that the UNAR - I too speak of the UNAR, even if under another branch of its activities, the one it carries out although it is not provided for by the law; therefore, there are other problems - it has credited in its working group, among various other associations, the circle Mario Mieli, that has been - explicitly says the document - decisive in the elaboration of guidelines and strategy concerning the communication on LGBT people. The people who are part of this circle have all my personal respect, but if one calls a circle to a person, it is supposed that it is because he recognizes himself in this person and in what this person has written. These associations are accredited to UNAR, which hopes - in that same document - that they will be accredited to the Ministry of Education, University and Research to go to schools to explain to children, teachers and parents how to deal with the issues of sexual identity. I have read what is basically the only work of Mr. Mario Mieli: it is normal that he wrote only one work, because he died of suicide at thirty years and it is not that he could write so many. I realized that that passage that I read in the Assembly, at the time we raised the issue, about the active exercise of paedophilia, in which it is said that "we revolutionary checcas (...) can make love with them, that is to say with children, is not a svarion or a provocation, but it is if not the essence, one of the essences of this full-bodied book, in which it basically theorizes that sexuality should be exercised with anyone, at 360 degrees, with any species and with anything and that in particular children should be educated and directed in this way, from the beginning, to prevent them from becoming heterosexual. This is the theory advocated by Mr. Mario Mieli. One is free to write what he wants, but the fact that an association titled to this gentleman is considered a privileged interlocutor of the Presidency of the Council and that it is hoped that his accreditation in schools I find frankly singular, not to say worse. I would therefore have expected, in the past month, that there would be some reaction and instead no reaction was there. I read only a few lines, which are not in themselves embarrassing, like others that would be easy to find in the book, but that make sense of it. It's not just about theorizing: someone said that he said these things in a utopian sense. Frankly, I don't think the utopia of paedophilia is very shared. In the conclusions of this unique work, Mario Mieli says: We cannot imagine the importance of the contribution made to the revolution and human emancipation from the progressive liberation of sadism, masochism, pederastia proper, gerontophilia, necrophilia (...) if we do not move in the first person to the disinhibition and concrete expression of these tendencies............................................................................................................................................................... Frankly, I believe that there would be someone else to consult to explain to our children issues related to sex, that not a circle that is called to those who have written these things and that is supposed to have an active role. One of the questions I put to the President-in-Office of the Council is in fact what role and what ideas this circle intends to bring through the structures of the State. [[Applause from FI-PdL XVII, CoR and Senators Di Biagio and Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u80	We will also urge you to conduct your interrogation, Senator Malan.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u83	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, as the first signatory to the above-mentioned questioning, I recall that for the second time I was in the embarrassing situation that the Senate did not agree to bring back in this act of trade union inspection passages of the book, as it was so inconvenient that it could not appear in the official acts of the Senate. In addition to what my fellow Senator Malan has read, there is also an invitation to fathers to join fleshly with their children and mothers to join with their daughters, always in view of this sexual liberation made through the mechanisms that the author explained. An association dedicated to a gentleman who expressed these concepts is a consultant to a body of the Presidency of the Council; it is as if a club entitled Adolf Hitler or some Nazi hierarch to combat anti-Semitism was welcomed as a consultant. If there is one thing on which until yesterday there seemed to be unanimity, even in the differences of opinion on these issues, it is precisely the fact that paedophilia and pederastia, or sexual activity on children, are considered repugnant. It's not just a customs union here, it's a consulting circle. I think there are two cases: either the circle changes its name, or the UNAR removes it from the list of government consultants. I remember that the director of UNAR, Marco De Giorgi, has already been censored by my colleague Guerra when he printed the famous booklets to be distributed in schools without the authorization of the presidency of the Council of then, nor of the Ministry of Education, and he is the one who sent the famous guidelines to journalists inviting them to use a language that, according to him, would be appropriate. I am sorry that Mr Airola has left the Chamber. It has never been seen that an official can send a letter of censure to a Member for expressing his views on immigration. I repeat: an official. Ben did the Head of State to receive Mr Meloni, and that would be all. I am surprised that an exponent of the 5 Star Movement defends an official who is allowed to censor the freedom of a Member of Parliament, even party secretary, to express his own opinion (as it was not licit) on immigration. I ask that the Government give us a constructive response because we consider it scandalous and immoral that a circle entitled to a character who wrote and theorized these things be a consultant to the Government in order to communicate, especially to students, a correct approach to these delicate issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-500.ana.u84	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.57 p.m.
