ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 1 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u4	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u10	TOCCI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Giovanni Berlinguer, an eminent figure of the Republic, one of the best Italian politicians, a passionate and competent servant of the institutions, from the Capitol to the House, the Senate, to the European Parliament, has failed. In each Assembly he left an unmistakable sign of his presence and also in this Chamber of the Senate his valuable contributions are remembered and open to comparison with those who thought otherwise. Yet, in recalling its political value, I seem to have said almost nothing about the complexity and richness of its personality. Giovanni Berlinguer was not only a politician, but a scientist of wide horizons, a militant of social commitment and an internationally recognized intellectual. The vastness of his interests, the diversity of fields of action and the multiplicity of languages are impressive. To hold together this multiplicity of thought and action could only be a precious cloth of humanity, which in the results appeared immediately to others, but which remained in the motivations as a secret force in his soul. It was a pleasure to talk to him, an unmissable opportunity to work with him and a privilege to have him as a friend. In the different degrees of relationship with him his mild, generous, simple and ironic style remained constant. He was not deprived of contrasts and, indeed, from them came the charm of his personality, intransigent and open, determined and curious, solar and deep. At the roots of all this, there was his goodness: it is really unusual for a politician the word "goodness". This character, when flaunted, is reversed in Phariseeism or stiffened in preceptism; when instead it is concealed, it acts as an inner force that moves all the qualities of a person. In this secret sense, John was first of all a good man. It was because he loved life and for this purpose he wanted to bend political action. His lesson is all here: taking care of the relationship between politics and life. That report today risks being cut off by the algide technocracies, media arrogance, the unconscious conformisms of our time. The link between politics and life explains his action, first of all as a Member of Parliament. His contribution has been more intense precisely in the great laws, which have aroused a deep popular involvement: from the law on abortion, to psychiatric reform, to health reform, of which we recall a memorable explanation of vote, which he made on behalf of the Italian Communist Party. "Medical is sick" is titled his book, which in the fifties anticipated, in criticism of current knowledge, the principles of reform twenty years later: health prevention, attention to environmental and working conditions, the fight against inequality in access to care. These are issues that he still considered central in the 2000s, emphasizing on the one hand the great advances of medical science and at the same time the paradox of a world divided between the problems of obesity and those of death by hunger. His first book that happened in my hands was "Borgate di Roma" (Borgate of Rome), written together with Piero Della Seta. The commitment of the politician, who deals with the life of the barracks in the outskirts of the capital, was intertwined with the rationality and sensitivity of the physician of the people. That book was then used simultaneously as a textbook at the university, in the nascent discipline of sociology, and as a user manual in party sections and neighborhood committees. The attention to the link between health and equality has made him famous in Latin American countries, not only at academic level, with the broad emphasis of his studies, but also for popular recognition. President Lula said in an international assembly: "From us, Giovanni Berlinguer is a legend." As has often happened to great Italians, he happened to be better known abroad than at home. He, with his prestige, has made a valuable contribution in international bodies, in the World Health Organization (WHO) and in the study of the social determinants of health - as the President of the WHO commission, Michael Marmot, recalled this morning, in the message sent to the commemoration that took place at La Sapienza University - as rapporteur of the Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights of UNESCO - in which he helped overcome ideological fractures, proposing a daily bioethics, as self-consciousness of people's lives - and in the European Parliament, with decisive contributions to the resolutions on climate change. Giovanni Berlinguer was an innovator in all fields, even in his party. In the PCI he helped overcome ideological distress, always looking at world changes, often in advance of other leaders. It is 1973's analysis of information technology and democracy, which only today, with the advent of the Internet, has become a crucial issue. He was never afraid of the new, intended as a serious analysis of change. Instead, he became suspicious, in the 2000s, of "newism" as rhetoric, which risks hiding conformism. He denounced this danger when he was nominated to the secretariat of the Left Democrats, in a memorable speech, taking up an apologist by Rossini, who had judged the work of a young composer, saying: "What is beautiful is not new and what is new is not beautiful." John stopped there: we went ahead, founding a new party, but for this very reason, every day, we have the duty to show that the new is really beautiful and that of tradition we are taking the virtues, leaving behind the defects. Among the virtues that John recommended was attention to the moral question, taking back, without ever flaunting it, the inheritance of his brother Henry. In corruption - he said - politics not only does damage to the state and an injustice among citizens, but delegitimizes itself, loses dignity and therefore the strength to change things. But perhaps the wealth of the person is also seen in his most eccentric, seemingly minor activities. The political-life relationship was also sought in entomological studies, which freed to the greatest degree his curiosity: from the study of the operosity of the bees to the world of fleas - which, in his analysis, influenced history, deciding the fate of great battles rather than the genius of the generals - up to that singular custom of keeping a small leopard at home, looking for a domestic dimension of that apparently disturbing vitality. The relationship between the living was his assailant, but a bitter fate struck him, marked him in recent years, precisely with the disease that prevents relations with others. So, Mr President, Giovanni Berlinguer left us, in a closed world, speechless. He left shortly after the disappearance of his beloved Giuliana, as happens in the great loves between two people, where the need arises to accompany the other not only in life, but also in death. In recent times, when she met her friends, Giuliana said: "Come and find my boyfriend!" To a friend who accepted the invitation, happened the luck of being recognized by John and listening to an incredible question from him: What can I do? This question John leaves as an inheritance to young people: what can I do? Not just for me, but for us, for society, for the country. [[Live applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u13	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, on behalf of the Senators of the Left, Ecology and Freedom and the whole of the Mixed Group, I would like to extend our closeness to Lidia, Luisa, Mario, and all her grandchildren. The disappearance of Giovanni Berlinguer leaves an unbreakable void not only in the Italian left, but in the world of Italian science and culture. It is a vacuum of those who impoverish the country, when those rare figures that have been patrimony of commitment and concreteness fail, always in search of an uninterrupted need for change. He was a doctor and a university professor. He was a Member, Senator, European Parliamentary, Chairman of the National Bioethics Committee. He was an environmentalist, a mild and rigorous man, who never bowed to the sirens of political complacency end in himself. Director of the PCI, always attentive to all the themes that moved in society, even after the parable that followed the turn of the Bolognina remained consistent with the essential values of its culture, its ethics, its principles. At the PCI Congress he was an alternative candidate to the Secretariat of Left Democrats. On that occasion, Giovanni Berlinguer, who collected 34 percent of the consensus, became, as many remember, an important reference for those who, in the world of the left, did not recognize themselves in that prevailing choice. In May 2007, after the dissolution of the Democrats of the Left that will lead to the birth of the Democratic Party, he left the party and founded, together with Mussi and many others, the Democratic Left, which will give life, together with many representatives of the Greens and the Movement for the Left, to the Left Ecology and Freedom. Let us remember with affection his closeness and commitment, for example, to the 2009 European election campaign. But Giovanni Berlinguer was in the seventies - I would like to remind him here - one of the first and very few communist leaders, and more generally of the Italian left, to show interest and attention for ecology, so much so that he was among the founders - few today remember him - in 1979 of the League for the Environment. He did so, as in every aspect of his political activity, starting from his competence and his professionalism. He did it as a medical man, pointing out, denouncing and fighting the enormous damage to health that involves poisoning the air and water of our planet. It was an era, it must be remembered, in which in the Italian left the sensitivity to these themes and these battles was scarce, almost non-existent. It still prevailed a strictly industrialist, developmentist culture, which tended to underestimate the damage of environmental destruction for all and in particular for workers. From this point of view, John Berlinguer's daily work and commitment were truly pioneering. It was precisely Giovanni Berlinguer who brought to Italy in 1971, to the famous conference of the Gramsci Institute on Man, Nature and Society, Barry Commoner, one of the founding fathers of world scientific ecology. It was precisely that Commoner who, with his continuous travels to Italy, played a decisive role in throwing a bridge between the environmental movement and the workers' movement. Precisely from the meetings with Commoner, Giovanni Berlinguer's antinuclear position matures, which together with that of other leaders of the Communist Party such as Fabio Mussi and the members of the Environment Section of the PCI arrive to elaborate the antinuclear position that marked the debate of the 17th Congress of the Communist Party. In his important book on ethics, science and health, John Berlinguer argued: There is a great interest in cases that anticipate the future frontiers of science, but the choral implications of scientific applications in everyday life are increasingly neglected. Since we are able to act on vital phenomena that depended only on spontaneous laws, and often against us to evolution, questions have in fact multiplied. The main question cannot be: where to stop; but another: where we direct our commitment. Integration between human rights (and all living) and scientific progress can be the foundation of a secular bioethics, polemic towards fundamentalisms and fundamentalisms, but sensitive to the dilemmas that today arise for all science. This has been his research all these years. There is another aspect of the personality and the way of understanding the politics of Giovanni Berlinguer that I believe should be pointed out and valued, all the more at a time like this, when the risks of falling between Italian society and politics, between the real country and its representation are so strong. Giovanni Berlinguer was a politician in the full sense of the term, and yet he never became a politician, but he always remained a doctor, who in his political activity poured his professional experience and into medicine, as in scientific research, but never lost sight of the principles that inspired his political militancy. And he was always a scientist, who combined research with an attempt to develop a true national policy for science, research and continuous criticism of science itself. For Giovanni Berlinguer, the commitment to medicine, university and politics were not severable, they were sides of the same coin. So it should be in general for politics. This will have to be the case in the future if we are to rebuild a solid relationship between society and politics. His battles were never abstract, never dictated only by belonging to a party: they descended directly from his professional experience, from his human experience. It was thus in the commitment to the poorest, in favour of the environment, in the passionate lineup in favour of the Public Health Service, in the concrete effort to build a true social medicine. Only a policy of this kind, linked to direct experience, immediately recognizable by the citizens as an expression and representation of their concrete needs and yet deeply rooted in a political commitment that is not occasional or superficial, can recreate that strong link between the people and its representatives that has come increasingly diminishing in recent decades. There is one last aspect of John Berlinguer's personality that you need to refer to. Many have recalled his character, his mildness, his willingness to dialogue with all. His policy was the opposite of the screaming that too many, unfortunately, have taken on board. But at the same time he was firm and inflexible in defending fundamental principles and founding values. I believe that only when politics is again able to show kindness, open to dialogue and, however, firm in fidelity to fundamental principles and values will it be again credible for citizens. This is what we want to greet with great affection and regret Giovanni Berlinguer. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u16	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the Senators of the People's Area Group, who have never been politically active at his side, also bow to the memory of Giovanni Berlinguer and are grateful to Mr Tocci for his elegant political profile, including that beautiful hint at the last tragic fate of ending him, a doctor and scholar of the sociality of the sick, precisely in the type of illness that precluded his sociality. Giovanni Berlinguer was an Italian Member of Parliament in both branches of Parliament. He was a Member of the European Parliament and has always been so with extraordinary composure. It seems to me that Mr Tocci used the adjective'mite' and Mrs De Petris the adjective 'gentle'. Perhaps I would add something, if I could allow myself to be included in the historical and political tradition of the communist world. There is no doubt that Giovanni Berlinguer belonged to the tradition of Togliatti, that of Togliatti who, in the famous interview of the fifties to "New Topics," on duplicity had justified parliamentarism in function of Leninism and Leninism in function of parliamentarism. Here, Giovanni Berlinguer was a parliamentarians who never had an instrumental conception of parliamentarism. He was a great gentleman, even when he was a relentless opponent of a Health Minister whose policy he did not share, but towards whom he never degraded himself to be a jackal. From this point of view, any reference to Leninism may not be improper in the case of Enrico Berlinguer, but it is entirely wrong in the case of Giovanni Berlinguer. Just one consideration: Giovanni Berlinguer was a university professor, he was a scholar. Many times we have seen colleagues of great prestige get caught up, if not in dislike, in poor harmony by parliamentary colleagues for excess of baronial or for excess, sometimes, vanity of anti-politics, with the fate of banality. This, in so many legislatures, has never happened to Giovanni Berlinguer. He has made the parliamentarians in the field, in that sector between university, science, health and disease in its social implications and as a parliamentarians in the field, one can only remember him as a great parliamentarians - certainly never as a baron - and therefore as a true aristocrat of Parliament and politics. Honour then to his memory. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u19	Stitches (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise to support the memory of Giovanni Berlinguer. I got to know him when I was President of the European Union's Political Commission: at the time Giovanni Berliguer was a Member of the European Parliament and with him, as a Member of the European Parliament, I had the opportunity to discuss some issues, especially environmental issues. So I got to know a political opponent, certainly not an enemy; a correct and coherent person, a man of culture, convinced of his thesis, who could listen and confront even with political opponents who supported theses at times completely different from his. Whether it was nuclear, questions related to the world of medicine or other matters particularly dear to him, there was always the possibility of confronting him in a direct and very loyal way. In addition to expressing sympathy for family members, I would like to remind you of Giovanni Berlinguer, whom we greet, as a loyal, correct and very honest politician. With these words, the Group of the North League joins the pain of family members. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u22	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV)). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Grand Autonomous Left and Freedom, the closeness to the family, but also to all those who in politics have been lucky enough to accompany the path and the path of humanity and of great political importance by Giovanni Berlinguer, I would like on this occasion simply to recall some moments that I had the opportunity to live alongside him, in the context of the European institutions. It is true that Giovanni Berlinguer was a politician with a political thought very far from my convictions, but at the same time he had the merit of living with passion the position that the Italian left has matured with respect to the idea of Europe in difficult years, that is, the implosion of the communist system and the evolution of the thought of the Italian left on the subject of Europe. That very way of thinking was best represented by Giovanni Berlinguer in the classrooms of Strasbourg and Brussels, with a participation - especially in the work of the European Parliament's Committee on Culture - which had the merit of translating in indelible way its deep conviction, which also reveals in all its work: I refer to the profound antithesis to that conception of power for which power is everything and for which man is nothing. For Giovanni Berlinguer the man instead was everything, it was a central point, not only within the political reflection, but also in the gaze that he reserved for every human story. The fact that he testified, when he took the lead of the National Committee for Bioethics, that bioethics was not only a dispute about fundamental principles, about fundamental principles, but instead was a daily dispute, that is, the history of all those people who asked for politics to help gain a little more meaning to the story of those who are faced with the mystery of illness and death, gives us the measure of the passion with which he looked at the political activity and the building of the relationship between politics and citizens throughout his life. That is why I feel obliged to join in the condolences already expressed by all my colleagues. I feel how deeply true the words expressed above all by colleagues Walter Tocci and Loredana De Petris, because in all that is the great history and the story of the Italian left is above all the history of men to speak, even before the history of ideas. We must all honor ourselves for having met this man; above all, we must feel as an honor that we have been able to live a piece of the political history of the country and of the European institutions at his side. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u25	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group also joins in the mourning of the family members of Giovanni Berlinguer. I believe that his personal qualities have been highlighted, his interest in the person, who derived from his being a doctor and strongly aware of the social importance of his profession and the importance of social policies in relation to the generality of the citizens. In this sense it is good that both those who belonged to political formations along with him and those who were, like us, well away from his political positions should remember it. I think it should be remembered, more generally, that the task of a Member of Parliament, of a representative of the people, in Rome, Brussels or Strasbourg, is essentially to try to do its best for all citizens. Of course there are differences between those who see the common good in a different way, but it must be loyally recognized, even to those who belong to different political formations, which is the intention of those who choose political commitment. This should be remembered not only in the commemorations, at the time of the sad farewell as in this case by a colleague who has been for two legislatures in the Senate, three in the House and who has also been in the European Parliament, but more generally for greater respect, both mutual and political life: not of politics, as we say now, but of life and political commitment. In this sense we salute in Giovanni Berlinguer this commitment, this mission that he has felt to carry out, as many and as I believe all of us, serving this country. Each one does so by following his own convictions and by his own abilities; he has done so. Let us pay homage to him and join in the mourning of family members. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u26	The Presidency joins, thanks the speakers and expresses its condolences to the relatives. In this respect, I would ask this House to observe a minute's silence. [[The President stands up and with him the whole House, who observes a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u27	Colleagues, the Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current timetable and the new timetable until 30 April. This afternoon, after the conclusion of the general discussion on the draft law on the reorganisation of public administrations, the draft law on personal protective measures will continue to be examined. In the afternoon sitting of tomorrow, which does not include closing hours, the resolution of the 14th Standing Commission on the projection of European policies in the Mediterranean and motions for resolutions on the rationalization of Poste SpA, for which it was agreed to proceed only with illustrations and final explanations of vote. The agenda also includes an examination of the ratification of the amendments to the Convention on the physical protection of nuclear materials and other ratifications of international agreements drawn up by the Commission for Foreign Affairs. At the afternoon session of the question time, Minister Poletti will answer questions on the implementation profiles of labour market reform and on social security measures. Next week, the Assembly will return to meet again from Tuesday morning, April 14, beginning at 11:00, for the discussion of the decree-law anti-terrorism and international missions. The timetable also provides for the follow-up of the draft law on the reorganisation of public administrations. The single sitting of Thursday 16 April, for which no closing hours are scheduled, will be suspended from 10.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. to allow senators to attend the celebration ceremony of the 70th anniversary of the Liberation, to be held at 11 a.m. in the Chamber of Deputies. The calendar of the week from 21 to 23 April provides for the possible follow-up of the topics not concluded; the decree-law on the conduct of the regional and administrative elections; the Document of Economy and Finance 2015, as well as the related bill on the simplification of the agricultural sector. In the afternoon session on Thursday 23 April the question time will take place. Finally, in the week from 28 to 30 April, in addition to the possible follow-up to the related draft law on the simplification of the agricultural sector, will be discussed the documents defined by the Junta of parliamentary elections and immunity as well as the motions on the promotion of culture against the ill-treatment of animals and initiatives against the economic and social crisis of Sardinia.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u28	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following program of the Senate's work for the months of April, May and June 2015: - Draft law no. 1577 - Reorganisation of the Public Administrations (collected to the financial maneuver) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Draft law no. 1232-B - Amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure in the matter of personal protective measures. Amendments to Law No 354 of 26 July 1975 on visits to persons with disabilities in a serious situation (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies, amended by the Senate and again amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - Doc. XXIV, No 40 - Resolution of the 14th Permanent Commission pursuant to article 50, paragraph 2, of the Regulation, at the conclusion of the examination of the deal assigned on the projection of the policies of the European Union in the Mediterranean - Drawing of law n. 1328 - Provisions in the matter of simplification, rationalization and agricultural competitiveness of the agricultural, agri-food and fisheries sector (related to the maneuvering of public finances) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 112 - Provisions in the matter of disciplinary responsibility of the magistrates and the transfer of office - Drawing of law n. 803 - Provisions in the matter of identification of members of the Forces of the order (made own by the Mixed Group, pursuant to article 53, paragraph 3, of the Regulation) - Drawings of law of conversion of decrees-laws - Ratifications of international agreements - Budgetary documents - Documents defined by the Junta of parliamentary elections and immunities - Motions - Interrogations and questions
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u29	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted amendments to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 30 April 2015 pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure: [[Wednesday, April 8 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following general discussion draft law n. 1577 - Reorganisation of Public Administrations (Linked to the financial maneuver) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) - Following draft law n. 1232-B - Personal protective measures (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies, modified by the Senate and again modified by the Chamber of Deputies) - Doc. XXIV, n. 40 - Resolution of the 14th Permanent Commission on the projection of European policies in the Mediterranean - Motions on the rationalization plan of Poste Italiane SpA - Drawing of law n. 1791 - Ratification of amendments Convention on the physical protection of nuclear materials (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs Thursday 9 " ant. h. 9.30 Thursday 9 April pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure to the Minister for Labour and Social Policy on: - profiles for the implementation of labour market reform; - interventions in the field of social security]] Amendments to draft law No 1577 (Reorganisation of Public Administrations) and No 1791 (Ratification of amendments to the Convention on the physical protection of nuclear materials) will have to be tabled by 6 p.m. on Wednesday 8 April. [[Tuesday 14 April ant. h. 11-13 - Drawing of law n. 1854 - Decree-Law n. 7, anti-terrorism and international missions (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Exceeded on 20 April) - Follow-up to bill n. 1577 - Reorganization of Public Administrations (Collegato alla maneuvera finanziaria) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) - Interrogations and questions " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Wednesday 15 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 16 " ant. 9.30 a.m. (*) The sitting of Thursday 16 April will be suspended from 10.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. to allow senators to participate in the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Liberation, to be held at 11 a.m. in the Chamber of Deputies. Amendments to bill No 1854 (Law No 7, anti-terrorism and international missions) should be tabled by 6 p.m. on Thursday 9 April.]] [[Tuesday, April 21 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Possible follow-up of unfinished topics - Drawing of law n. 1818 - Decree-Law n. 27, holding regional and administrative elections (It falls on 17 May) - Doc. LVII, n. 3 - Document of economy and finance 2015 - Drawing of law n. 1328 - Simplification of the agricultural sector (Linked to the financial maneuver) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) Wednesday 22 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 23 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 23 April pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] Amendments to draft law No 1818 (Law No 27, regional and administrative elections) will have to be tabled by 6 p.m. on Thursday 16 April. Motions for resolutions on Doc. LVII, n. 3 (Document of economy and finance 2015) will have to be present before the conclusion of the general discussion. Amendments to the resolution adopted by the Government should be tabled within one hour of the opinion being delivered. [[Tuesday, April 28 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Possible follow-up to bill n. 1328 - Simplification of the agricultural sector (Linked to the financial maneuver) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Documents defined by the Junta of the parliamentary elections and immunities - Motion n. 258, Amati, on the promotion of culture against the ill-treatment of animals - Motion n. 378, Uras, on initiatives against the economic and social crisis of Sardinia Wednesday 29 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 30 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 30 April pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1577 (Reorganisation of general government) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 40' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. 5' M5S 50' AP (NCD-UDC) 50' Mixed 45' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 37' GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI, IdV) 36' LN-Aut 36' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1854 (Decree-Law No 7, anti-terrorism and international missions) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 12' FI-PdL XVII 46' M5S 36' AP (NCD-UDC) 36' Mixed 34' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 28' GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI, IdV) 26' LN-Aut 24' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1818 (Decree-Law No 27, holding regional and adminsitative elections) (6 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 30' Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 4 hours and 30 minutes, of which: PD 1 h. 4' FI-PdL XVII 41' M5S 32' AP (NCD-UDC) 32' Mixed 30' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 25' GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI, IdV) 23' LN-Aut 22' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1328 (Simplification of the agricultural sector) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, including: PD 1 h. 40' FI-PdL XVII 1 h. 5' M5S 50' AP (NCD-UDC) 50' Mixed 45' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE 37' GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI, IdV) 36' LN-Aut 36' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u32	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, as we did at the Conference of the Leaders, we ask that the Secretary of State for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, Luca Lotti, be heard in this Chamber by delegation to the CIPE. We ask this because, in order to the scandal that is involving the CPL Concordia and others, that has evidenced a very strong role of some cooperatives in a system of corruption very diffused, in the various informations we read that the activity of interception in existence has allowed to highlight the relational network that Francesco Simone, former responsible external relations of CPL Concordia, has managed to create over time, and that it is functional to pursue in all ways its own interests. In this regard, he manages to have a preferential channel also with Luca Lotti. Now, as the Undersecretary has the delegation to CIPE, a very heavy delegation, we ask him to come and report to the House on these facts, and explain to us what contacts exist between the Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council, as well as Secretary of the CIPE, and this person who is currently in prison. So we are asking that the presence of the Undersecretary be scheduled for tomorrow, so that he can explain to us what is going on. I think that is the least, since we have just adopted an anti-corruption law. Do we want to agree that we are all against corruption? Then undersecretary Lotti will come and tell us what the facts are. We simply want him to come and report and then, if necessary, take the appropriate measures against him. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u35	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I do not ask for a change in the timetable, but I ask the Presidency to assess (and I also ask the other groups to say so, if they consider it appropriate) a delay of another 24 hours of the deadline for tabling amendments on draft law No 1577 on the reorganisation of public administration, in order to allow for a more tidy presentation. Considering that the discussion will be resumed next Wednesday, there is all the time: both for the Offices to prepare the material, and for the Commissions to express the opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u38	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to support the proposal made by Senator Crimi and announce the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group on the proposal by Senator Cioffi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u39	Colleagues, if there are no other interventions, specific that the request made by Senator Cioffi consists in a proposal to modify the calendar with the integration, on the day of tomorrow, of an information of the Undersecretary Lotti, that will be put to the vote. With regard to the request made by my colleague, Mr Crimi, and also supported by Senator Malan, as I am not the subject of a vote, I shall pass it on to the Presidency. I put to the vote the proposed modification of the calendar, made by Senator Cioffi, aimed at supplementing the agenda for tomorrow's sessions with an information of the Undersecretary Lotti. It's not approved. However, I have the counterproof to be sure of the outcome of the vote. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for the work adopted by the Conference of the Leaders and which I have communicated to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u40	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1577.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u41	Mr President, the growth potential of an economy can also be strengthened by sound structural reforms, and the reorganisation of public administrations is certainly one of them, although there is no shortage of critical issues in this text. Moreover, the impasse and chaos in the implementation of the reorder of the Provinces cast a shadow also on the path and the subsequent application of the reform Madia. Italy has an unavoidable need: to cut public spending which continues to increase exponentially. Between 2010 and 2014, current-account expenditure net of interest on public debt rose by more than €27 billion. In 2014 the public car cost Italians about 692 billion. It is worth remembering, in this regard, that only as a result of the reduction of the work units and the blocking of the contractual renewals of the civil servants, introduced in 2010 by the Berlusconi Government, in the last five years the expenditure for the staff has decreased by 5%. Therefore, it is useless to go around: a serious reorganization of public administrations must not ignore the rationalization of public spending, and the former commissioner at spending review Cottarelli in his last speech, before returning to America, has not shown much optimism about the results of this reform, since the objectives do not seem to include, at least not explicitly, the saving of resources and - textual - " can not be pretended that with the cuts there are no savings in terms of staff". Indeed, there is no quantified definition of savings in the draft law. Or rather, if it is okay, the target of 1% less annually than the total expenditure remains. But we must ask ourselves what expenditure: the total public expenditure - and we would be half a percentage of GDP of public expenditure less - or a 1% of the general operating expenditure of public administration equipment, which would reduce savings to a few hundred million per year? The criterion seems to be entrusted to decrees of the Ministry of Economy six months after the approval of the law delegation in Parliament. But if this reform had to be the starting point for finally taking a serious step forward in the implementation of the 30 billion cuts provided for in the Cottarelli plan, then we are faced with a false start. The Cottarelli plan envisages, or rather provided for a new discipline of individual dismissals comparable to that of the private sector. That is, if the personnel are made redundant in a particular office they must be moved elsewhere and those who refuse to do so cease to be in service. Cottarelli has the merit not only of having foreseen a reduction in public expenditure, but also of having set an important change in the management of the public service. Following this principle, the growing permanent protection contract, which provides for the dismissal of holders of new contracts both for economic reasons and for disciplinary reasons, should also apply to the public service. But, of course, there is strong resistance to this rule on the part of the unions and the Government has adapted, leaving the bottom node unresolved and not applying to the civil servants the new rules of the jobs act. There is no doubt that the jobs act represents one of the most controversial issues together with that of the public leadership, against which the Minister focuses on the evaluation and dismissal of inadequate managers. Well, in abstract terms, the general lines indicated by the Minister seem impeccable and agreeable, when he says to focus on an autonomous leadership independent of politics, to which one accesses by competition and to want mechanisms that, guaranteeing the autonomy and independence of the leadership, guarantee its non-removability, also constituting an additional garrison against lawlessness and corruption. Excellent goals, but are we sure that they are actually being achieved by this reform? The reality is, however, that in some cases the bill ends up capturing objectives completely opposed to the statements. In fact, to focus on a kind of skill to the leadership, means to leave free hand to the political bodies to assign the assignments with full discretion. One of the cornerstones of the reform is the so-called national single role of all state managers, along with three-year assignments, renewable once. But one important detail should not be forgotten, namely that in the public administration there are essentially two categories of managers: those of role, who have won a regular competition, and those appointed by contract, who are often co-opted in local authorities by politics, albeit with fixed-term positions. Well, with the Madia reform, role managers will one day be able to stand suddenly for lack of assignments, although they have won a regular competition, while the managers appointed and co-opted by politics, who often already have another job being usually university professors, state lawyers or officials of the same administration that confers by contract the managerial assignment, will probably still be able to rely on the lifeline of political connections. It should not be forgotten that Decree-Law No 90 of 2014 allows local authorities today to hire co-opted managers without competition up to 30 percent of the staff, compared to 10 percent previously foreseen. For the directors appointed, in short, in the municipalities and in the regions there will still be many places available. For those who have won a regular contest, instead, there is the spectre of dismissal. Furthermore, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to one specific point: if we really want to recognise the merit, we do not understand why the reform reduces the part of the pay linked to the result, that is, the part by which we reward those who actually achieve the objectives. Finally, the reform of the public administration provides for the abolition of the office of municipal and provincial secretary. Precisely in this figure, Law No 190 of 2012 had identified the person responsible for preventing corruption in local authorities, while the reform now intends to rely only on the figure of the Director General, which is the emblem of the lack of subjective impartiality, being of exclusive choice of local politicians, who are therefore free to determine criteria of appointment and compensation. Perhaps it would have been more consistent to identify a more autonomous figure, modelled on the municipal secretaries as they were before the Bassanini reform. There was, it is true, a broad sharing between the political groups on the abolition, in three years, of the figure of the municipal and provincial secretary, it has always been understood as indispensable to ensure the performance of the local functions in autonomy and respect of the legality and guarantee not so much of the administrators, but of the citizens. And here the administrative function stands out in relation to the political one. In this sense, the figure of the Director General, who was one of the main failures of the Bassanini reforms, constitutes a precarious balance because it is positioned between politics and bureaucracy, each with its own logics, often in contrast. This also applies, of course, to the prevention of corruption in local authorities. In conclusion, the chain of command of the public administration and the quality of its operation are essential, as well as to provide efficient services to citizens, also to organise the withdrawal of the State in favour of the market. I hope that in the course of the debate in this House we will be able to overcome the problems mentioned, starting with the former Article 10 of the reform, which is clearly at risk of unconstitutionality. As for the amalgamation of the State Forestry Corps, I refer to the interventions of President Gasparri and Senator Bonfrisco, with whom I fully agree. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u42	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this reform was announced in April, and we are debating it in April. Too bad the reference was to April 2014 and not 2015, but we know well the "announcement" from performance of President Renzi, so I would say that we are in the norm. One more year would be nothing if the result were worth the wait. Another objective of the President's intentions was to reform public administration with the consent of the citizens. Indeed, on 30 April last, the OP was launched of the large public consultation, in full Renzi style, coram populo. More than 39,000 messages came to the e-mail address of the Ministry of Public Service Rivoluzione@government.it (a name, a guarantee). What happened to these proposals? I doubt that the citizens are more listened to and considered to be their representatives in Parliament, but perhaps Minister Madia has diligently integrated the proposals received in the draft law; perhaps he will let us know, it would be interesting. For good school, my colleague Blundo certifies that it did not happen. By entering into the substance, the delegation law addresses important issues, especially in the area of services to the citizen, procedure and administrative simplification. Just read the headlines to agree on a change of course. Too bad, though, that they are principles already contained in other rules that have never been applied. In fact, how many times have we heard about digital interaction between citizens and public administration? I am referring to electronic access, personal information and documents, online payments, the electronic health file and the passing of paper in general, digital identity. And in the area of administrative procedure, do you find the desire to reduce the passages, their duration, to promote digitisation, to increase transparency? These beautiful and shared intentions are already enshrined in existing provisions, such as Law No. 241 of 1990, Legislative Decree No. 82 of 2005, better known as the digital code (as amended already twice) as well as the recent legislative decree No. 33 of 2013 on advertising and transparency of public administrations, and others. I mean, hot water already exists. As already exist and are active the OIV (independent evaluation bodies) of Brunetti's memory, and with them the system of premiumity, incentives and performance indices. The innovation, I dare say Copernican, would instead have been to find a way to give effective application to these laws and perhaps in reasonably fast and certain times. In Italy, the problem is not to produce laws; I would say that we have overabundance of them. The recent survey carried out by the Parliamentary Commission for Simplification, of which I am a member, has shown clearly that our legal system is characterised by a regulatory stratification, the result of the accumulation of rules over time, laws repeated often without the necessary connection with the previous rules. The Court of Auditors, on 20 November 2014, while analysing the close correlation between excessive laws and corruption, provided a well-known fact: to repeal a rule we create 1.2 new ones. Colleagues, let's think. The real obstacle, then, is to make the rules enforceable. In order to be implemented, the laws must pass so many passages that in the meantime one risks forgetting them and producing new ones. Also in the Commission's survey simplification in administrative matters was found that on February 4, 2014 they had found implementation only 405 of the 883 compliances previewed by the laws approved during the Monti Government and only 17 of the 394 compliances of law previewed from the Letta Government. I don't think it's a chance to think that this trend will continue unchanged even in the Renzi Government. The cause? The postponement! The approved rules, that is, are not self-applying, but to be effective they require the issuing of further acts in uncertain timings. Without considering the concerts, the arrangements, the acquisitions of opinions, and those who have more to put them (only in this provision, to the eye and cross, we can count at least twenty). In short, the baroque and redundant technique of the postponement is one of the main causes of the "mala-legislative" and, consequently, of the "mala-administration," which in turn reverberates negatively both on the free entrepreneurial initiative, and on the dysfunctions and exaggerated costs of the public administration, and on the everyday life of the citizens, who respond with their time, non-renewable resource, economically and above all in terms of quality of life and health, because the prevailing bureaucracy does not produce, but wears down and damages. In this regulatory jungle, it becomes a company to identify the correct path to be followed to obtain authorisations, licenses and whatever else allows the exercise of the right of enterprise according to the rules, without ending up in the mouth of Equitalia. Italian citizens know it, they are now resigned; foreigners find it hard to believe it and when they don't run they laugh at it, as it is happening at the Expo. Therefore, the real turning point would have been to change the legislative technique, but this law follows and confirms the old practice. In conclusion, this law lacks primarily a fundamental element in determining a genuine change in our administrative system: the courage to face the untouchables of true decision-making power, the caste of bureaucrats. No turning points, therefore, no change of course, no revolution, in spite of the e-mail address baked by the marketing office of Palazzo Chigi. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cociancich. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u45	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for putting together this measure - which I would call titanic - and leading the process of intense and profound change carried out in the Commission, but also the Government for its willingness to cooperate with the Commission on such important issues. They are such because they concern a bill that, in my opinion, has the ambition to change one of the fundamental laws of the State and a vision of the State that little by little frees itself from that image of the Leviathan of Hobbes that, born in 1600, has arrived until today. Today, therefore, we move from this centralist vision, in which the State was the ultimate goal of history and became a totally over-ordered entity compared to citizens, to a new and modern one, in which the State has a much weaker role, there is a European multinational dimension and, in fact, its function is to create a legal framework, a regulatory environment in which the great game of economic and civil relations between citizens is played. In essence, the State lays down the conditions of competition for undertakings. There is a regulatory pluralism within the European Union, according to which not only states, but even large industrial regions - for example Bavaria, Ruhr, Lyon, North-East Italy or Barcelona - compete with each other, i.e. they become players in the great game of competition. For this reason, it is necessary to establish a network between bureaucratic services, administrative services and the capacity to respond to the entrepreneurial fabric of each country and region. At a time when public resources and the capacity of the State and the Regions to finance directly the economic recovery, between sovereign debt crisis and spending review, it will be increasingly necessary to have the capacity to attract private investment and to develop a joint public-private initiative. The theme of project financing, which in Italy has never taken off, shows just how in the face of the availability of entrepreneurial initiatives, the attractiveness of the territories to make the projects that had been hypothesized effective has failed. In fact, project financing has resulted in the financing of substantially minor works or works that have necessarily required a significant contribution from the State. This did not produce, however, that flywheel for the development of the country that was expected. Today working on the requirements and characteristics of public administration means precisely trying to intervene on this level and therefore overcoming not only the cumbersomeness of the special legislation, for example the one that concerns the public-private projects that I have previously recalled, but the overall one, in which the economy and entrepreneurial capacity of the country moves. Giving back momentum and competitiveness to the system as a whole, I believe, is the ambition behind the bill that we are examining. Bureaucracy is certainly a great asset. To the word "burocracy" we usually associate a negative connotation, but I believe that it is instead a great resource of intelligence and technical competence, which each country must be able to activate. In our country it is probably necessary to remotivate public employees and intelligences, which certainly characterize many levels of our administration, but which are somehow discouraged by mechanisms, which go to penalize not only the private, but also the public. It therefore seems necessary to evaluate the draft law under consideration, not on the basis of its conformity with abstract models of an ideological nature, but on the basis of its ability to effectively affect the reality of our country. From this point of view, I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues in particular to Article 4 of the draft law, which states that the reform must be based on the principles of European Union law relating to access to services activities and to the principles of reasonableness and proportionality. The introduction into our legal system of these principles therefore involves the introduction of the characteristics of simplification and acceleration of services for citizens and businesses, the computerization of procedures in payments and relations with citizens and businesses, the reform of the service conference - which has always been the bottleneck of the decision-making process of the public administration - with the adoption of a majority principle, with the reduction of the cases where the opinion of the Conference of Services is mandatory and with the provision of the possibility of an even asynchronous and telematic examination of documents, and the introduction of all those principles that are the basis of the so-called 2006 Services Directive, the very important and famous Bolkestein Directive. This is a directive which has, in fact, been introduced in part in our legal system. I would remind you that, under this directive, the imposition of an express authorisation should be limited only to cases where an ex post check would not be effective, because it would not be possible to see the shortcomings of the services concerned at a later date and given due consideration to the risks and dangers which might arise from the absence of a prior check. The Bolkestein Directive also provided for authorisation to be granted not only on the basis of a formal decision but also on the basis of an implicit decision, resulting from the silence of the competent authority or from the fact that the person concerned must wait for the notice of receipt of a declaration to start the activity, so that the latter is legitimate. These principles, together with the principle of free competition of the undertaking, freedom to provide services, equality, fairness, publicity and transparency of administrative action, are the basis of the draft law under consideration: they seem to me to be extremely important principles. I therefore believe that it is necessary to measure the government's ability to implement these principles, through the application directives: on this basis, the incisiveness of the government's action will have to be assessed. I believe that we must vote and vote in favour of the principles that have been set out and, for this reason, I can only conclude by expressing my satisfaction with the draft law under consideration. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u46	Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u47	Mr President, thank you for your attention, as I thank the Minister for his attention. You see, Madam Minister, I will not make a general speech, but I will focus on Article 7 of the measure, in particular on the consequences that may result in the possible and possible absorption of the State Forestry Corps within the Ministry of the Interior. I consider this aspect not only dangerous, but even subversive; and I will explain the reasons for it right away. You are well aware that the State Forestry Corps has always found its place in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy; all of this has been perfectly consistent, for a number of reasons that I will try to demonstrate and explain quickly, since I do not think that you have taken these arguments into account at all, at least in your work in the Commission. You see, the State Forestry Corps, as you know, is a specialized police that deals with the Italian agro-forestry heritage, the protection of the environment, the landscape and the ecosystem, the protection of biodiversity, the prevention and repression of food and environmental crimes, the protection of forests from fires and the protection of the territory. It has a number of tasks: the protection of the ecosystem through activities to prevent and suppress infringements, the protection of forests and plant biodiversity, the protection of animal biodiversity, the surveillance of protected natural areas to protect national natural heritage, the protection of endangered fauna and flora, the protection of animals from ill-treatment, the protection of wildlife, the conduct of activities to combat the illegal trade in endangered flora and fauna within the meaning of international conventions, the fight against the trade in illegal wood, the monitoring and control of the territory for the prevention of hydrogeological disruption, the prevention and combating of illegal activities related to the phenomenon of forest fires, the control of snowy mantle and the provision of risk avalanches, the protection of natural ecosystems through activities to prevent and control of violations of the environment and landscape, the exercise of powers conferred on the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry Policies and deriving from Community legislation, the conduct of surveillance and investigation of illegals committed in violation of rules on the protection of water against pollution and related environmental damage and disaster, the control of waste management, in particular with reference to agricultural activities. And here I stop for brevity. These are a whole series of tasks that strictly affix to the powers of the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy and that, among other things, also from the functional point of view, have direct relevance to the missions of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, from which there is therefore a functional dependence also regarding the surveillance of the national parks, the relationships for the activity CITES and so on. All these activities are not in fact compatible with the mission of the Department of Public Security, the Ministry of Interior. Therefore, the maintenance of the criteria listed in the legislative forecast in question cannot be reconciled with the absorption of the Body in the other police forces, in particular in the State Police. In particular, if the reform were to succeed, it would not be possible to continue the sustainable management of the 150 state natural reserves now entrusted to the State Forestry Corps. It would create territorial overlaps of peripheral joints (Carabinieri and State Police), which would also manage the 800, 900 stations already of the State Forestry Corps; therefore on the territory there would be a duplication of structures, with relative increase of expenditure. New burdens would arise, the existing conventions of the State Forestry Corps with the Regions would be reduced. The paradox of all this is that you have also contradicted yourselves, because, in expressing your support in the Commission for amendment 7.117, in fact we would have the abolition of the Forest Corps of the State in a situation in which the six Forest Corps of the Regions and Provinces with autonomous status would remain, with the possible new institution, in the other 15 Regions, of Regional Forestry Corps in addition to those already existing in the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. As if that were not enough, let us not forget that in the dissolved Provinces the provincial police had, among the institutional tasks, that of environmental surveillance. Because of this measure, scientific and technical professionalism accumulated by the three national centres for biodiversity in the field of the protection of the genetic heritage of native forest plants would be lost, specialist expertise would be diminished, there would be no savings in expenditure, we would not be able to carry out the monitoring, in our country, of our forest heritage in accordance with the Kyoto Protocol and, more serious, we would give freedom of movement to agro-piracy, to agro-mafias dealing with illicit trafficking of waste also in our country and would consequently result in irreversible damage to the national economy, because I want to remember that the national economy is also based on agro-food and that made in Italy that this year, in Expo 2015, we want to exalt and want to show the rest of the world. [[Applause from Senator Albertini.]] It seems to me, therefore, that this is an absolutely contradictory attitude and, as I said in the premise of my speech, it is actually an evolutionary one. So let's stop before it's too late. Neither the State Police, nor the Ministry of the Interior have any specific competence for such interventions, while the State Forestry Corps has high professionalism that are recognized at European and international level, which absolutely cannot be fully integrated into the national security system. Consequently, we must find a way that can, of course, allow savings and rationalization: in my opinion we should open another track, going to censor all the police forces that deal with environmental matter that exist on the national territory - I refer to the old provincial police - and we must make a speech with the Regions and the autonomous Provinces that have autonomous bodies, that are however asfittic and that do not have those means, those resources, that history, that professionalism typical of the Forest Body of the State. A major overall operation must therefore be carried out which is not intended to safeguard a body but to safeguard the national interest, which by means of this measure, in particular Article 7, you are undermining. Ours is a country that has great environmental resources that also become strategic resources from the economic point of view: the environment, the landscape, the beauty of our country, the agri-food security, the Made in Italy, the fight against those perverse mafia associations that have poisoned and continue to poison our territory, from the land of fires to the other tens, hundreds, thousands of land of fires that are present in our country, or other similar episodes that have occurred on the territory. And so, ladies and gentlemen, on these days that separate us from the final adoption of the measure, at least in this House, we are looking very carefully at what we are doing. I wonder if you want to go on this path because these arguments have been underestimated or because industrialist lobbying, environmental lobbying and lobbying are taking precedence in our country, which in the end do not care at all for the real interests of our country. Precisely in the year of beauty, precisely in the year of the Expo, precisely in the year in which we must give the world the best image of our country, in which we must be able to sell the beauty of our country, we reason on these themes and identify those roads that can guarantee not the survival of a body, but as I have already said the national interest, which in this case means safeguarding the specificity of the Forest Body of the State and its functions. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u48	We greet the students and teachers of the State Institute of Higher Education (Benedetto Varchi) in Montevarchi, in the province of Arezzo, and of the State Institute of Higher Education (Magrini Marchetti) in Gemona del Friuli, in the province of Udine, who are attending our work from the tribune. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u49	Colleagues, before you leave the Chamber, I begin my speech by quoting Senator Collina, whom I still see present. He began his speech, which I followed, with great emphasis and really believing us with the words: We're reforming. We're revolutionizing. It made me a little tender and I say it with a lot of sincerity. He gave me tenderness because he actually believes in it. But are we really reforming something or are we giving a blank proxy to the government to do what it decides to do, reform or revolution? We're laughing at the right measure of things. We are simply giving the government, which today has a composition, but which from here to twelve months could also change, a blank delegation to do whatever it thinks it wants to do. We even give him the delegation to make the criteria, which should instead be contained in the delegation itself. In many points of this bill it is clearly written that the Government is delegated to adopt legislative decrees according to criteria and directives expressed with a formula of the type: to define the criteria for. This is one of the elements that the Government must provide. But if the criteria and directives are to be defined by us as Parliament, how can we delegate the definition of criteria to the Government? The draft law in its first articles intervenes on the Conference of Services, reducing as much as possible the use of this instrument, trying to speed up the administrative activity. The logic is to speed up and not optimize, always acting in the usual hurry and evil. In the measure we also read the question of the reorganization of police functions. It's a line: I'm reordering police duties. We are talking about a theme of an impressive vastness, a theme that has involved so many, in recent years, in deciding between a model of specialized police and a unique police model, divided within it in various specializations. The debate is open and we say to the government: "You do it. It's up to you. We cancel all the debate that has taken place over the years, and the government will decide what it wants. It's a line: I'm reordering police duties. To this we add the abolition of the Forestry Corps. I have a sense of serenity: after listening to most of the speeches, I have the impression that the abolition of the Forestry Corps should not pass. From most of the speeches that I have heard, even of the majority, it seems that they are all opposed to the abolition of the Forest Corps (at least those that have intervened and save some sporadic intervention). I therefore expect a surprise vote during the vote on the amendments, in particular to remove the words that indicate the amalgamation of the State Forestry Corps within the other police bodies. This is the only thing that is clearly said within the reordering of police functions. Perhaps it was necessary to start with carabinieri and police, who have overlapping functions, rather than the Forestry Corps. The logic, however, was to do quickly: we take the smallest; for 8,000 men it takes a moment. That's what the Minister said, and I'm not the one who invents it. From the five was removed one, the smallest, and was put in. That was more or less the logic. And if that's the logic of making laws, we're good. On our examination we have a law of delegation in white. This is also the case for executives. One amendment went to the Commission. And I have to say that the text that came out of the Commission, perhaps, in some parts has got worse than the Government's will. We will then go and see them, amendment by amendment and article by article. Maybe the government text was better. There is talk of public management mobility between public administrations. There is a welcome exchange between public administrations and mobility within the framework of a unique role of management. It is a pity that words have been added which allow mobility from the public to the private sector, and this happened in the Commission a few days ago. The public manager will be able to go on mobility (in expectation, moved and then resumed) to a private person without any limit. We leave it to the Government to define and expand the modalities of carrying out mobility between public administrations towards the private sector. So we can have an Agcom manager - for example - who goes to work in Mediaset for two or three years: we give him the expectation and then we take him back to work in Agcom. We can have an Antitrust manager who tomorrow goes to work in ENI or ENEL or in another company under control: therefore controlled and controlled. Not to mention the companies involved: we can imagine having managers of local authorities moved to participating companies, but in fact private, with voluntary mobility so simply, against a good figure, controlled and controller exchange the managers. That's the risk we're taking. Let's think about the same senate officials, who can be put on the move, moved to a private company, maybe to one of the many lobbies that are always around here. That's for a bit of a leadership picture. There would be so much to say about the draft law under consideration, which contains a delegation among the widest that there are. It is indeed a revolutionary measure, precisely because of its vastness: we are faced with a delegation that includes virtually all the human sizable regarding public administration, up to the last articles, in which we talk about the reform of the participating societies and, therefore, the local authorities that invest in actions. We are talking about the reform of the societies that manage public services - economic and not - even if it is not said how this reform will take place and in which direction. It is not said what the vision is, that is, to privatise or to make public. But everything is left to the definition of the government, which will find itself able to make legislative decrees on which Parliament will no longer have a voice, because we know what happens to Parliament's opinions on legislative decrees. The final gem, then, is the article in which it is expected that the Government is authorized to decide autonomously - therefore no other criteria are identified - such as implementing decrees, regulations or administrative decrees, enactment of legislative measures, intends to adopt. This article is really the icing on the cake and on it I invite you to think carefully. We know that there is an incredible backwardness of implementing regulations or decrees to which the Government has not implemented - as a colleague mentioned earlier, who quoted the numbers - but we say today that we have joked and that the Government can decide to which delegations of Parliament to implement, with a criterion that has no logic. Let's tell the government not to adopt those implementing decrees for which the conditions no longer exist, deciding independently what: but what conditions would they be? We have not seen a rag of the list of these decrees. We didn't see anything. We do not know what action will be taken. What is even more illogical is that reference is made to the legislative provisions, which provide for implementing measures, which came into force from 31 December 2011 to date, i.e. until the entry into force of the delegation law under consideration. We are not talking, therefore, about earlier legislative provisions, so there is not even a logic for which we want to implement the more 'old' measures, in order to try to crack down, since, if a measure has not been implemented for ten years, there will be a reason. No, reference is made to the newer ones, to those from 2011 onwards, among other things with a term linked to the existence of the delegation, a term that could theoretically include this same delegation law. In theory, the government, in a particular loop, could modify this law delegation, where in a year maybe it thought that the conditions no longer exist. This is the situation we are in. It is an absurd measure, particularly in the article I have just referred to, which gives the idea of what the bill as a whole is. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cuomo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u51	Mr President, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the House is called upon to discuss and approve the delegation law on public administration reform. We have repeatedly repeated, in political and institutional fora, that this is a central objective of the Renzi Government's action. This profound reform of the public administration complex could finally give the country a more efficient and more effective public administration, based on meritorious mechanisms. It could simplify services to the citizen and not least, allow to start that generational relay that has been repeatedly presented to the Italians as one of the principles of this reform. I would like to make a few comments on these very elements, which unfortunately have not yet found any practical and concrete answers in the article we are examining. On 11 November last I filed in the Senate as the first signatory, together with other colleagues, a question in which I asked to know what competent measures the Minister in address intended to take to promote the generational replacement in the public administration, granting quickly rights, to date denied, to tens of thousands of Italian citizens who won public selective procedures in the state administrations and local authorities. We have submitted this question in the light of some extraordinarily alarming data, on which to date there is evidence of substantial superficiality or, worse, an inability to intervene with decisive instruments by the local authorities. In fact, according to the monitoring of the public service on local and national public authorities, there would be about 4,000 winners throughout Italy and, therefore, those who have, according to the jurisprudence, a subjective right to the recruitment pending the latter. There would then be about 80,000 eligible people who, despite having passed all the competition tests, do not fall into the places put into competition, but who can still enjoy, as in the past, the so-called sliding of the rankings. The figures of the public service are accompanied by a very clear political reflection. At a time when this government has been able to focus everything on a reform of the labour market, introducing increasing mechanisms of protection, with the reform of social shock absorbers and with the objective of promoting ever more stable and lasting working relationships, as well as encouraging companies to new recruits, we have to ask ourselves what the role of public administration in this area can and should be. It is not credible a public administration in which citizens place a legitimate expectation in the proceedings carried out by local authorities or, in general, by the central government of the State, and which then manifests a non-capacity or an impossibility, in spite of the current regulations, to make operational those same recruitment procedures after the completion of public selections that, besides lasting for several years, with an increase of costs for the Erario, do not end with the relative assumptions of the winners. There is, in all evidence, a distonia between what we go to reform in the private sector of the labour market, producing opportunities and safeguards, and what we do not reform in the public, where there are embarrassing cases of selection procedures banned in 2010, concluded and for which there has not yet been a single recruitment. Direct consequence of this reasoning remains the desire for a generational relay, which precisely finds no practical realization even in the most benevolent intentions of the reform. We do not, in fact, find any derogatory mechanism that can allow those bodies, which are in the conditions I mentioned earlier, to be able to recruit from competitions carried out and concluded, although during the discussion and approval of the Stability Act, the Minister and the Undersecretary must be given notice that they have included a rule that should have served exactly this procedure, but which unfortunately has not yet been implemented. In the above-mentioned question, presented with other colleagues, I expressed a particular alarm and disbelief regarding certain specific situations - and I address myself to the Undersecretary and the Minister - such as the one in which the Municipality of Rome is located, in the context of which the absorption, according to the assumptions presented by the administration, of 1,995 winners of public competition (we are talking about public competition winners, and not eligible who are waiting for the slide of the ranking), for 22 professional profiles (competitions banned in 2010, according to the rules that we have approved during this legislature), would take place in at least 15 years starting from the current year. It is a public administration that defines the recruitment of contest winners in three luxuries. Can we identify these procedures as responding to those principles of economicity, efficiency and effectiveness that we owe and want to inspire this reform? I pay the government's attention to these issues. That is precisely why I intend to table an amendment, which does not want to go against it, but wants to put the Government and Parliament in a position to implement that rule of the Stability Act which has not yet been implemented. And I address, in particular, to the Undersecretary Rughetti, with whom we shared a wide season in the ANCI (Italian National Association of Municipalities). It is a situation that we know perfectly well, like many other senators, and that recognizes, with a lot of skill and ability, Senator Pagliari, who is a distinguished jurist. We cannot explain to the contest winners how it is possible that, when a state or municipal administration resolves a staff requirement - and therefore determines the number of persons involved in the various professional profiles, makes the budgetary adjustment, preparing the money in order to then proceed to the recruitment, and public (when the manager publishes a notice commits the expenditure) determines a manager who commits the expenditure - then ends with denying them a right. These people, among other things, could, in a few years' time, sit in the stands to follow the work of the next Parliament, perhaps the Senate of the self-government. It is a very real prospect that we have the duty, in the depths of this reform, to face up to and avoid. And it would be a serious mistake if, in parallel with the jobs act, we did not identify timely and rapid measures to resolve this problem, which is a central element of the reform law that you presented to Parliament. [[Applause from Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u52	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u53	Mr President, public administration is, in the way and in the facts, the State: it is the idea, the concept of State and it constitutes its backbone and the nervous system. It appears to the citizens and is, in reality, the most tangible and concrete projection that accompanies and characterizes abstract terms as "public," "common," "public good," "common good." In the capacity to make such nouns and adjectives as perceptible, and close to the interests of citizens, reside the will and capacity of Government. Therefore, a reform of public administrations, such as the one we are dealing with today, may be susceptible to success or failure insofar as it will contribute, in a primatial way, to determining closeness and involvement of the body of the administered to a project of general vision, shared growth, social and economic development for everyone and for each. It comes to mind that wonderful painting that is the "Allegory of good governance" by Ambrogio Lorenzetti, a plastic forerunner, seven hundred years ago, of a model pursued over the centuries, in the various ages of human history, as an ideal form of organization and harmonization of individual and collective interests, and perhaps also the search for happiness on earth. Let us remember that only the American Constitution speaks of the pursuit of happiness entrusted - as political philosophy, as theory and practice - to the management of human coexistence. The Constitution of our Republic, instead, based on the values of the Resistance, and therefore strongly marked by experiential historical passages, pursues objectives of civil coexistence, of harmonization of natural diversity and social superstructures; it speaks of fundamental principles preordained to the public good and to the well-being of individuals and the community. However, putting in hand the reform of the public administration is like preparing for the seasonal plowing of a vast field of principles, applications, areas and sectors that, of course, show limits that are now intolerable, strongly conditioning, traumatically deviant of the good functioning of the State in the complexity of its forms, in the levels of territorial and central government. We all report inefficiencies. We all agree on the need to move forward with the reform. We also remind ourselves - just to emphasize the importance of the act in question highlighted - that we owe to the great Roman emperor Hadrian the modern paradigm of public service and public administration. Let us keep this in mind when, hastily, we archive practices and theories that have ended up informing a large number of universal management modes. We want to remind this Government, we want to emphasize it to its majority. The Renzi Executive and the Government Coalition do not consider that they must obtain a myriad of delegations on issues, issues and principles of which Parliament is unaware, of which citizens will be passive subjects, of which the state's order (made of men and women with powers of thought and action) does not have prior information. It is paradoxical, in fact, that decades of conquests of rights and levels of participation - I think, for example, of collegial bodies in schools and universities - continue to be mortified by the muscular activity of a Government, motivated by significant goals, but which in fact tramples on dissonances and cancels sharing. Too bad, because on important categories of the delegation plan one could record the most authentic sensibilities of the country, the noblest intentions of active citizenship. Nothing, in fact, is given to know what will really be made of fundamental achievements in the process of simplification and simplification such as the Conference of Services, the Institute of Silence-Consensus, the reorganization of the administration of the State, the public leadership; of why emblematic figures of the local authorities are archived as the Secretary-General. To this end, would it not have been more appropriate and appropriate to the real needs of mayors and directors to re-evaluate and re-qualify this role as a public official, making it responsible in order to give legitimacy to the acts produced by the municipalities for the purposes of transparency and the fight against corruption? It is a pity that entire police forces are being suppressed and we still do not know what will be the branch of public security that will take over its functions. I am referring to the State Forestry Corps, which is well-known and well-known for significant enterprises, present in mountainous and rural areas, along rivers and in protected areas, in national and regional nature parks. The savings that are being pursued in the reorganisation of the police force, frankly too many and necessarily without means, should be based rather on the centralisation of purchases, the introduction of standard costs and the reinforcement of the police stations at the expense. But, reasonably, we leave forestry in their place, we equip them with advanced technologies in the fight against environmental crime. They will help to make Italy a country that respects the landscape and contributes to the enhancement of natural resources and the remains of the past, to create new employment and entrepreneurship in cultural and environmental goods. We are disappointed by the government's way of acting. There is no doubt that this way of proceeding is affected by the Commission's propagandistic approaches which, in times of truth rightly claimed by the population and inescapable, cultivates rather the sensational announcement, the timely tweet and tranchant than the concrete facts: gain with the reform of the public administration the headlines of the newspapers and postpone to later times the implementing measures. It happened with the law of fiscal delegation. It is appropriate to remind the Government that the country is mature, always, to accept the effects of the new air, provided that it is pure air, not infected by the virus of demagogy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u54	Senator Lanzillotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister and representatives of the Government, in the history of the Italian Republic, the ambition to reform public administration has been the most recurrent, perhaps the most obstinately persecuted and, together, the most frustrated. This is certainly not the place to reconstruct the causes of these partial or total failures, which, in my opinion, largely lie in the nature of a reform which, in order to be truly effective, should have a systemic character, i.e. to invest at the same time all aspects of the functioning of the administrations (from the cultural profile of the persons involved in the organization, from the rules of the procedure to the controls) and which, instead, every time is inevitably partial, and for this reason leaves dangerous gaps in which inevitably the saboteurs of the reforms are wedged. Therefore, the challenge that the Government has launched on public administration is perhaps the bravest and even the most risky, because the bet is to succeed where many others have failed. Today, however - in my opinion - there are two completely new conditions that can lead to a certain optimism about the final outcome of the challenge. Firstly, the implementation of the new administrative structure will be managed by a new leverage of senior public managers, managers involved in a major renovation operation and trust investment in them. There is no doubt, in fact, that, in the last twenty-five years, the summits of the Cabinets and ministerial bureaucracies have regularly tended to sterilize, I would say lobotomize, the innovations contained in the various reforms in the phase of their implementation. Today shouldn't be like this anymore. The second new fact is that this reform aims to focus everything - or at least so it states - on the transition to digital: a powerful lever, which can make a qualitative leap to the entire public system but which in order to be real - we need to know, and I think it must be stressed, because there is not enough awareness - will have to produce a profound change in the structures and professionalism of individuals, as well as the way they work. For this reason, even if the pure administrativeists have snubbed it with a little 'enough, the proposal that I have allowed myself to move forward, and that the government has immediately collected - and I thank him for this - can be very important. I am referring to the proposal to put at the heart of the process of reorganization of all administrations, beginning with the Ministries, a manager for the digital transition. This will create a kind of network of managers, agents of change whose mission will be to guide not only technological innovation but, in the first place, the reorganization of processes and, consequently, structures and offices to achieve transparency, interoperability and cooperation. These are the objectives in themselves, but also indispensable tools to build the data on which the evaluation will have to be based. This is an operation that has remained on paper in recent decades, when reform mechanisms have been anchored to the evaluation, which have in fact remained unimplemented because the whole system was built on quality and merit related to the evaluation. Today, the digital lever can allow this systemic transformation. It is a historic and unmissable opportunity, which other countries are already using and which, if not grasped in all its potentials, would aggravate even more the competitive handicap that slows down our economy. And yet, what is missing here - I repeat - is awareness of the implications and impact of the digital revolution on administrative organisation. The draft law provides for appropriate and important provisions, which are also improved by the Commission, on the Conference of Services, on silence-consent, on self-protection, on the concentration and coordination of verification, inspection and control activities; rules which rightly aim to give certainty of the times, to remove citizens and businesses from the harassment and arbitraryness of administrative action, to make transparent and accessible the functioning of administrations as an instrument not only of participation and control of public activities, but also as the first measure to prevent corruption. Moreover, in some cases, they are almost entirely covered by existing laws, but they remain unimplemented because they need solid legs to walk on. They need, that is, the efficient and quality organisations of the staff who work there. On the organization, the bill contains useful and appropriate rules, starting with those which tend to qualify and strengthen the role of legislative and administrative coordination of the Presidency of the Council, to counter the actions of ban and obstruction sometimes put in place by the individual Ministries, and very often, in the past, at the origin of the slowdown of reforms (in the past, but also in the present). There are, however, also rules which seem to re-propose - in my opinion without an adequate critical analysis - models of which the facts have already shown the operational weakness. I am referring, for example, to the territorial offices of the Government, for which I believe it is abandoned to seek new ways of territorial coordination of state activities, perhaps making full use of the digitalization process. On other issues which would finally require clear and clear action, I would like to stress that there is too much shyness. Among them, the theme of police forces. Personally, I agree, as I think many other colleagues, with regard to the prospect - hopefully, it is not said and not taken for granted - of a specialized group of environmental police instead of an ad hoc body; a nucleus that, far from lowering the guard on environmental crimes, on the contrary integrates it with investigations of very high specialization, because they concern international organizations, such as the eco-afies, compared to which a territorial police, as in fact would be the Forest Corps (even if they were also entrusted with riot duties), is not able to cope, given, precisely, the complexity of environmental crimes. But the nodal point that the bill does not deal enough - in my opinion - is the more general one of the specialization of police forces: who does what. Today they all do police investigations, including wiretapping; they all control the territory, they all do public order and they all pursue the same crimes with negative effects on effectiveness, costs and operational coordination. I believe that the instinctively and automatically defensive activity of the existing, which many police forces carry out - we are not talking about the Forestry Corps, which we have today had a demonstration of the penetration of lobbying in Parliament - is generally a widespread phenomenon. 18.25 (Followed by Mr Lanzillotta). I think that this is a conservative attitude that does not tend to enhance the modernisation, even technological, and the value of the police forces, whose quality is recognized also at international level. In the same way, we have gone back a little bit on the chambers of commerce, of which, of course, the number is almost halved, but we continue to maintain ambiguity on the scope of operation, on the multiplication of the operating societies and on a self-perpetuation of a political class that, in truth, does not honour our entrepreneuria. In any case, two are the key points - in my opinion - less convincing, on which I believe, from here to the issuing of delegated decrees, it will be opportune and useful to deepen with the Government the model to tend, and concern, on the one hand, the leadership and, on the other, the participating societies. Management is basically governed by the rules by a sort of spoil system based essentially on evaluation and merit. It is a fair and acceptable approach, but I wonder: if and until this mechanism, i.e. evaluation, will not be operational - and we know from experience how difficult it is to make it work - what will be the criteria and ways by which to regulate and efficiently operate this sort of virtual market of public management, without falling into a system in which the discretion of the political body prevails? On public societies, then, I would say that there may be too many rules, but they do not clarify some key concepts, which I hope we will be able to clarify better in the course of the debate. There are few rules around which, however, to organise delegated ones: what are the public services of general economic interest, for which management opts for the corporate model, the reduction of the exclusivity regime, the application of the criteria and rules of competition for the market and in the market? On the other hand, it is not defined in which other cases you can opt for the corporate model and what publicistic criteria must correspond to the social object: can you produce wines, oils, tourism and promotion activities? That's where the perimeter needs to be defined. In the same way what must be the criteria for custody in house? What are the minimum efficiency and cost-effectiveness thresholds in terms of turnover, number of employees and/or in relation to the number of directors, level of deficit and debt, standard costs and benefits provided? Few but stringent criteria that would serve to clear the jungle of the 8,000 very resistant regional and local societies and to approach the goal repeatedly indicated by the government. I believe that in the course of the discussion few but timely changes could help the Government to carry out this decisive project of modernization of the country: to this tend the amending proposals elaborated by me with some colleagues, in order to make the reform stronger and more incisive. For this reason, I hope that the rapporteur and the Government will be able to assess them positively, and I would also like to thank them for the very open, helpful and cooperative work they have done in the debate in the Commission. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u56	Senator Mauro Giovanni is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u57	Madam President, Minister, Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, I will not give in to the temptation to address this important issue from the point of view of the opposition senator who looks critically at anything that may come from the majority and the government. I will try to address it, however, from the point of view of substance, precisely because an issue such as the reform of the public administration deserves that respect and that ability to make a contribution required regardless of political membership or grouping within the institution of the Senate. I shall therefore begin by saying that 25 are the amendments which we tabled as a group to this measure within today's deadline, which aim to improve the text that emerged from the Commission, where indeed some of the amending proposals that we have tabled have already been accepted. We consider these to be absolutely essential, because some of them are concerned precisely with the issue of digitalisation and computer modernisation of the state structure, which is the real reform and what citizens really expect from public administration reform, because that is really the crux of the issue. Other amendments concern the modification of the Chambers of Commerce system. We cannot understand this pervicacious will of the central state to enter in such a rigid and strong way in the regulation of what belongs to the private, to the companies and to the system of the enterprises of our Country, that in this case nothing ask: I would therefore leave this freedom of self-organization as free as possible. Others concern the question of the State Forestry Corps and the management system that is being set up. On these issues, among other things, we saw a rather rich debate, so much so that we could not distinguish who was the senator of the majority and who was the opposition. Criticism or, at least, important suggestions, came during the debate by all areas of Parliament. This indicates a first limit of the choice made. The use of the delegation law has been chosen in such broad areas that perhaps they deserved more precise legislative measures and a more specific commitment to Parliament's debate and legislative decision on each subject. Think of the reorganization of the police bodies: you cannot leave such an important topic for the daily life of the Italian citizen as part of a delegation entrusted to the Government, without precise indications. This is a very delicate and very important subject. Mr President, we should then go and trust a government, which more than a year ago received a delegation from Parliament to issue tax decrees. After more than a year, I believe that the same Government, which today asks us to approve another delegation, is going to ask for an extension of the delegation granted on 14 February 2014, on the very delicate fiscal matter. Yet, during the general discussion on tax delegation, these same arguments had been heard and this pompousness had been recorded. It was said that intervention in the tax sector and in the redistributive systems is very important and that one cannot do without fiscal reform, since the growth of our country is anchored in tax reforms. Well, after more than a year, an extension is called for in order to issue the decrees of the tax delegation. The government does not think that Parliament gives legislative power to a government that feels more in control of the state than it does to implement and manage the political direction. The Government must exercise the power to govern and not the mere power to decide the beautiful and the bad weather, the how and when, in form and content: this is not what Parliament can allow the Renzi Government. If I may say so, this is not what Parliament can allow a political force such as the PD, which is the child of a political force that in 2001 proposed to us the reform that passed to history as a reform Bassanini and that today makes us discuss an urgent and necessary reform of the public administration, for the full failure of that conception - all the daughter of a culture, which unfortunately you have and carried out - which sees in the public administration an instrument in relation to the implementation of government policies. In a liberal and open vision of the State, at the service of the citizen, this vision of yours is out of the world, out of time and far from the necessities and urgency that our country today lives. The citizen today would need state structures and infrastructure not only more slender and less expensive, but above all more suited to the needs of his everyday life. A small and medium-sized Italian company today lives under the constant control of all the authorities, not only police, but also administrative control: they can count on up to 21 different ones and therefore can be visited its own company and its accounting records, daily, by as many as 21 different authorities. This does not imply a natural allergy to controls in relation to one's own internal activities, but simply involves the expenditure of energy, strength, hours of work and hours of business activity, which are taken away from a State which does not show itself to be a friend of business and of the citizen, but only a Cerbero controller. And that's not it, that's not the vision we have of the state and the public administration. Senator Liuzzi just quoted noble examples of the vision, dating back to seven hundred years ago. But it is a vision and an approach that we would like to see completely different; we would like it to start from a point of view, from a perspective, from a reading angle that is not yours and that is not what you are proposing to the government. We see that little effort is made in that digitization that would really give a sprint to the entrepreneurial activities and to the tranquility of the life of the citizen, that could benefit from the services of the public administration without endless queues or without loss of hours of work. You have a vision of leadership that is not based on quality, ability, competition, even the best skills that have been formed in the field. That is why we have tabled amendments in this direction. On the other hand, you focus more on the regularity of structures and infrastructure. At this stage of the debate - I think I have run out of time - I want to say that we will look carefully at the attitude of the Government and the House in relation to the amendments we have tabled. We will participate in the debate and express our intentions in the spirit of believing that today the time of public administration reform is unavoidable; but it is also important to meet the expectations that have been created as a result of the proclamations that have been made in public a substance that can be translated the next day into the benefit of citizens. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV) and the Senator Council.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u58	We greet the second group of students and students of the State Institute of Higher Education (Magrini and Marchetti) of Gemona del Friuli, in the province of Udine. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge my colleague Pagliari, the rapporteur for this bill, the great work he has done, producing himself and leading to the government, in general rather reluctant, some important, even if suffered, moments of listening. Any government that wants to accredit itself as a reformer tries to put their hands on the public administration. In fact, to make public administration efficient and thus make it able to carry out its task at the lowest cost is the great challenge of all the successive governments in Italy. To be honest, today it seems complicated also to make it only effective, that is, capable of playing its role in a satisfactory way, regardless of the costs of producing the services. However, attempts at reform have not been lacking, mostly thesis to detach policy-making from administrative management functions and to make administrative activity transparent towards users. Frankly, the feeling that you get from an overall look is a desolate scenario, in which few ephemeral and partial successes are struggling to show up in a magma of more or less recognized failures. Faced with so many unsuccessful attempts at reform, there is the doubt that the real causes of the malfunction of the Italian public administration have never really been attacked in their entirety and in their nodal point and that the few successes have occurred in those few cases where a political subject has united in itself incisiveness and desire to do well (in fact rare binomial, unfortunately). In fact, we are convinced that Italian public administrations, as they are, are the product of Italian politics as it has been and, worse, as it has become in the last twenty-five to thirty years. In other words, the old bureaucrats (not the office employees, but the senior management) have been established by politics and have taken root and of those roots have used to negotiate with the politicians that have occurred (on the basis of the old criterion for which the politician passes and the bureaucrat remains). Until politics decided to distinguish its power of direction from management power (without really giving up the power of management, attention) and then it aimed to escape the personal responsibilities of management choices, but maintaining its control over the permanence of bureaucrats in their place. If what I have just said is true (and, please believe, it is) from this representation are absent citizens, final recipients of the service. As far as the participation of citizens is concerned, it is interesting to note a phenomenon that I personally have had in my professional experience: in the refresher courses on the right of access that I followed as a young public employee, to my great surprise and disappointment the aspect that was treated more punctually were the limits that could be opposed to the requests for access of citizens. For crazy, then, I was going to take a course on the right of access and what they taught me to do was the denial of access. Among other things, with the overtaking of the privacy legislation (almost always interpreted in a very extensive way) these limits have multiplied (in the assessment of what I am declaring it is necessary to take due account of the difficulty of keeping staff up to date on the provisions of laws that we all know are of very painful interpretation and the tendency to protect ourselves of administrations, granting in terms of access the minimum). In our opinion, what should change in public administrations would therefore be the permeability of these to the legitimate needs of users (first of all the knowledge of processes for a functional and meaningful control of legitimacy when not of legality). In order to achieve this objective - in fact - the culture of public administration staff should be changed and this is achieved with a clear political will and with a good deal of time. Time has not been lacking, political will has been. But coming to this law delegates: does this law actually change towards? Is this the good time? Let me imagine these expressions preceded by the typical hashtag gate. To be honest, the feeling that these articles have led to the fact that a little "the renziana" has been carried out, that is, in the presence of the above-mentioned difficulties in the functioning of the public administration, it has been decided to cut the nodes, so that if the public administrations do not participate in the Conferences of services, or do not give their opinion the defined times or if a Superintendence is put in reverse, it is carried out by a majority, or can no longer speak later. In short, the controls of the public administration are reduced, which is seen as an obstacle to the free flow of private initiative. And this, I must say unfortunately, with good peace also of the environment, also of the historical artistic and financial heritage of the health of the citizens (they are expressions taken from the delegated law). In essence, therefore, in the face of an ineffective administration, which is also able to use the delay to avoid replying, we move forward without answers. He'll check it out. And so one chooses to reduce the task of public administrations in the life of the country, to cut them off; It is enough to look at the way in which the reform of the Chambers of Commerce has been dealt with: to fix the maximum number, as if the increase in efficiency cannot and should not be achieved by increasing the quality of the services and not only by reducing the costs of the existing Chambers of Commerce units. Just as it suffices to look at the possibility of dissolving the State Forestry Corps by incorporating it into another police force, without taking into account the possible options, that is, incorporating regional forest bodies or provincial police into the State Forestry Corps. No account is taken of the fact that there are special competences in the State Forestry Corps that will necessarily have to compete with the other competences of which the other bodies of the Forces of Order are saturated. In the end, the feeling is that what is really being pursued is the reduction of controls. Colleagues, attention: this is not a new and modern culture; it is a nineteenth-century culture, that of laissez faire, smuggled for modernity. In order to really change direction, public administrations must move on realistic work programmes, appreciated by the users concerned. How many times have I had the chance to see operational projects for the year approved in October of the year of stay, with a sort of fictio iuris, which did not leave anyone happy in the substance? The cards were fine, though. The novelty could be the participation of the citizen; on the other hand, its well-being is the origin and legitimate end of the state and public apparatus in general. We at Italia Work in Corso have tabled amendments to move in this sense the overall layout of this delegation law. By criticizing, we don't shy away from confrontation about things. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Torrisi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u60	Madam President, Madam Minister, the draft law on the reorganisation of the public administration has committed the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a long period, also because of the importance of the contents, which represent the third leg of the draft institutional reform of the government and of the parliamentary majority that supports it, alongside constitutional changes and electoral law. The bill is ambitious, but it is what the country needs considering that we all recognize the malfunctions of the functioning of the public administration. It contains several delegations of which, some multiple, but necessary because no Parliament in the world would be able to regulate in detail the whole of the rules of the administrative structure. Touched many subjects, from the organization of the state and the police forces, to the current leadership, from the municipal secretaries to the chambers of commerce, to the reorganization of the discipline of the company participations. The ratio of the bill is to optimize the productivity of public work making its organization more modern. To this end, the digital citizenship charter and the Conference of Services, the convergence of the regulatory structures of public work with those of private work, with particular reference to the system of union relations, the improvement of the efficiency and effectiveness of the procedures of collective bargaining, the introduction of internal and external systems of evaluation of staff and administrative structures, aimed at ensuring the provision of services complying with quality standards. It also contains the valorisation of merit and the consequent recognition of reward mechanisms, the establishment of a stricter system of liability for civil servants, and the introduction of instruments to ensure a more effective organisation of competition procedures. Citizens feel the need to change, to free the country from many conditionings and backwardnesses, warn it in a stronger and even rational way, than it does to corporate and political representations. As I have already said, what we are discussing can be described as a full institutional reform, because that of public administration is a challenge on which, in a democratic and modern country, majority and opposition are confronted with objectivity, entering the subject in a constructive way, and that is what has happened correctly in the Commission, thanks also to the commitment of the rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, colleague, and which, I hope, will also take place in this House. Public administration is neither central nor right-wing nor left-wing. Public administration needs rigour and efficiency. It serves to help those who cannot pay them out of their own pocket, it serves to help the weakest, it serves to help the poorest and it is on these points that the social contract is realized in society. Citizens pay taxes and must receive services in exchange from a serious, honest and efficient public administration, which has within it the criterion of meritocracy and reward. The goal is to fight clientele, waste, costs, inefficiencies, do what in all public administrations of Western and modern countries is the norm. We have to put public employees in a position to be motivated: the employee who works as hard and earns as little is a demotivated employee and instead, even today, the valid people, those who are really prepared and give the best, do not receive recognition. The employees of the public administration as a whole, in fact, were seen as the ball at the foot of development, as a self-referential caste that imposes itself as the only true customer of the public administration. In fact, most are workers who suffer from not being managed or being badly managed and represent a great opportunity for the country. The most important industry in Italy is public administration: it employs about 3.300,000 people, with a cost of € 158 billion per year, a figure equal to 11% of GDP. With regard to the quality and effectiveness of administrative action, the main available indicator produced by the World Bank in the context of the report "Doing Business" this year places our country in 56th place out of 189, with a four-position deterioration compared to last year. With significant changes in productivity and efficiency, we could obtain unexpected percentage points of increase in GDP, which in the current phase of the difficult economic cycle would be a figure of extraordinary importance: the public administration, therefore, from ball to foot motor of the Italian economy. Human resources are a substantially unmanaged potential. The public administration has always done purely bureaucratic management of the staff and has neglected, also because of a union and a distracted policy, the adoption of techniques typical of the Government and the valorization of human resources. We must be angry when we compare the massive investments made in training, which have not been followed by an increase in productivity, leading to unnecessary expenditure and, therefore, often a waste. The rotation of the "delicate" positions must be introduced, the privileged object of the flattery of the corruptors. During these years there has been the protection of the immovability of the public employed, which has made it difficult to move even from one office to another within the same building: a logic that risks appearing to prevail even with respect to the values of transparency and independence. Rotation is a guarantee principle, it avoids the encrustations in which the evil is born. It must therefore be clear to everyone that the issue of the functioning of public administration is decisive for the life of our country: if it works badly, the country works badly. This can only happen if the public administration reacts to the two major crisis factors that it historically suffers from, namely a lack of efficiency and a lack of legality. The basic demand of the company is to have a more efficient and more legal public administration: it is not possible to define efficient an administration that is not respectful of legality, as well as losing value a formally and bureaucraticly impeccable administration, but inefficient. Corruption inevitably passes through its offices and is fueled by bad bureaucracy. It is precisely on this front that the battle for legality is played. The concept of public administration is now associated with evil, error, paralysis, but in reality it embodies a virtuous institution, which is vital in every modern country. Unfortunately, today we only experience degeneration, when it is bad bureaucracy, which turns into a creeping power, based on the management of practices and which makes slowness a tool to impose its authority. However, we must not give in to simplifications and think that all civil servants are idlers. The right demand for a more just tax, for a better served citizen, for a more efficient health care, for a more modern school will not be able to find an answer, if the machinery of tax, public services, health, school has archaic structures, slow procedures, staff chosen badly and poorly motivated. The Government, Parliament and the public administration themselves must remember, as Filippo Turati loved to say, that the trams are not there to give work to the trams, but to transport the people. In other words, the objective to be pursued is to provide better service to citizens, not to accept the interests of those involved. Knowing and evaluating, governing and innovating, will overcome the many problems and backwardness that I have emphasized. The proper and efficient functioning of public administration is essential to combat corruption, against which, in addition to the repressive remedies of a criminal, substantive and procedural nature, which we have debated with the anti-corruption bill, the prevention aspect is perhaps more important. Other countries have focused their attention on that and the tools they use are ethical codes, organisational responsibility, risk mapping models, control procedures to verify the adoption of safeguard measures. It is the right path, but prevention must above all be a culture of legality; there is a need for cultural mobilization that starts from schools. It is necessary to restore public confidence in the institutions and to make them understand that corruption can be combated. Corruption is a great iceberg, of which we know only the part that is discovered; what interests us, instead, is that which is under the hair of the water, the one that is not seen, the one that is not yet discovered, the one that is difficult to estimate. Corruption is an immoral and hidden tax, paid with money taken from citizens' pockets, which erodes and restrains the domestic product and which we must all fight together. In this direction, we need clearer, simpler and more transparent procurement legislation and the same objective law which has not produced the desired results in terms of the implementation of the works, but also in terms of legality. What is important is not to delude ourselves that the threat of easy handcuffs, the multiplication of controllers and controls and long criminal processes are without contraindications and even decisive. As Tacitus said: very corrupt king publica plurimae leges. There are too many laws and they are unclear; they are a powerful tool, but our system abuses them because with them it wants to regulate any situation creating more problems than it solves and ending up paralyzing everything, also because many of these laws must then be realized by operating regulations that no one issues and thus remain unenforced. In conclusion, I believe I can say that with the legislative intervention under discussion we are addressing, on the one hand, the civil servants to whom it is right to give pride for the function and dignity for the position, on the other hand, the citizens all and the productive system, to which we cannot continue to impose a public administration without controls of efficiency and quality. We want a better Italy in which civil servants are not idle bureaucrats, but resources to manage more efficient offices in which the merit is rewarded, asking entrepreneurs to collaborate to make the legality convenient and the policy to engage concretely to solve the problems and be an example to the citizens. Administrative and legislative simplification are not only a technical process, but above all a political act. The successive governments, even if they have tried, have not had the strength and courage to carry it out because it is expensive in terms of consensus. The words of Tocqueville are valid for our State: The taste for public duties and the desire to be maintained by taxes is not a peculiar disease of a particular party by us, it is the great permanent infirmity of the nation itself. It is a duty to make this reform: we owe it to the Italians who, with their hard work and their money, hold the country and finance the State; we owe it to those who need it, to those who do not take advantage of it and prefer to be serious and honest rather than smart. The goal shared by all is that public administration will return to being a factor of growth of the country and not an obstacle. As supported by the Governor of the Banca d'Italia Visco, legality, good legislation, effective regulation of economic activities, efficient public administration are the main components of an institutional system capable of promoting innovation and entrepreneurship and removing rents of position and restrictions on competition. Citizens will have the task of distinguishing wheat from malerba, preventing parasites from enriching themselves with the resources necessary for the development of a country, those that serve to make tomorrow our children become protagonists of an Italy that is already improving, in which it will be nice to grow and work with high security of their rights. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u61	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u62	Madam President, until 2011, Italian legislation allowed the management of local public services of economic importance to be entrusted to those chosen following public tenders, allowing in-house management only if there were exceptional situations, which did not allow effective and useful use of the market; moreover, it stipulated that the water service fee should also include the remuneration of the capital invested by the operator. The 2011 referendum gave a stop that had to be definitive to this scheme. Water management was no longer to be profited. In fact, privatisations had to be stopped and a re-publicisation process started. They were fully legitimate objectives, which transpose many principles of our Constitution and do not harm European directives. Following a specific popular petition, the European institutions have made it clear that this is a matter for the individual Member States. They were also objectives shared by an imposing galaxy of movements, associations, committees, municipal and provincial councils, but also by unions such as the CGIL, by circles like the ARCI, by many voters of the Democratic Party, who forced their own leaders to reverse their positions, provided that the leaders of the Democratic Party are the same. I am not referring to Matteo Renzi, but to the ondivago Bersani, first in favour of the privatization of water, then in favour of the referendum and, finally, elusive and impalpable. That is why the popular referendum has been betrayed, with atrocious mockery. In Padua, before the referendum, the portion not due in the bill was 15%. After the referendum, a year later, it had risen to 17%. This bill must, and must, be an opportunity to restore dignity to the popular will, to put a word of clarity on the essential services and to resolve the legal monster of the participants. These are companies that can hire recommended in circumvention of the Stability Pact. But the costs of a monopoly service are being billed. It used to break this paradigm that private would be nice for. The mayor of Paris broke it, making huge savings after re-publishing the aqueduct. On the other hand, the text of the Government does not appear because it must be clear that the text of Article 14 is the text of the Government, revised by the rapporteur according to the will of the Government and voted in the Commission by the majority of the Government, by party taken or by majority taken could be said. This bill is a tragic veil that the government has written and passed to Parliament. Inside are the orders that the government claims to receive from us. And we should also pretend to decide. In simpler words: who is here heterodirect? The government writes the delegations it wants to receive. I say this so that the political responsibilities of choices and betrayals are clear. On the contrary, it appears in the text of the Government that still highlights the emphasis on the market and competition. But what competition? But which municipality, shareholder of a company, would prefer a competitor for a custody, with the risk of seeing sterilized the value of the shares and losing a customer base laboriously built. It wasn't necessary at all. All our amendments have been rejected: to make a commitment to re-publish the management of incinerators and aqueducts; to at least leave this responsibility to the local authorities; to provide for mandatory popular consultation on choices of this scale: nothing, not even for the municipal aqueducts of the small mountain municipalities. The government calls for free hands to make pig meat in the popular referendum. And use a chameleon text to trick us. It says: "Based on the principles of the European Union and taking into account the 2011 referendum." On the basis of the principles of the European Union which recognizes the autonomy of the States on this issue? These principles respect them. What about the referendum? What does it mean to take account of the referendum? What does it mean to take account of the referendum? Is it like for the agendas when the Government commits itself to assessing the opportunity to do so? We asked for it to be written in compliance with the referendum, but this too was rejected; indeed, in another part of the text there are incentives and rewards for those local authorities that will facilitate the loss of public control of local services. And then I want to tell you what happened in Padua at the hands of Mayor Flavio Zanonato. He wanted to merge at all costs the municipality that, together with the Municipality of Trieste, ran the water service and waste collection with the largest incinerator in Veneto. He gave the hen from golden eggs to the company Era, led by the union pact of the red municipalities of Emilia-Romagna, and did not ask to enhance the synergies. It is as if I were selling a silver coin, property of the citizens, to the simple value of the metal, when the coin itself has a higher numismatic value. If I then sell it to a collector who completes the collection, its value increases. No, you don't. None of this has been asked: and we are talking about something like EUR 400-500 million. Is it erarial damage? This is being verified by the Court of Auditors, to whom we have presented a statement. What is certain is that we Paduans, having lost control, breathe what the company Era, thanks to the unblocking Italy, will bring from everywhere to be burned to a thousand and five hundred meters from the historical center; while from the budgets of Era we get that in the exchange they have not given us even the value of the metal. After all, Zanonato was considered too careless by the magistrates to realize that he carried bribes at the time of Tangentopoli, but so capable, by the DS before and by the Democratic Party then, that they wanted him first mayor, then Minister, now MEP. We were told that the municipality would get juicy dividends. But what are dividends? I am the one who remains - I explain it to the citizens who listen to us - after paying the expenses and putting aside the investments. It is money that must be returned to the citizens, to the users, otherwise in my house it is called "cresting." And if the company is mixed capital, with 40% private, for every six euros going to the municipality, four enrich those private ones. You can't stand it. Hypocrisies emerge like skulls from a mass grave. During the referendary campaign the front of the "no" said that only management would be privatised. Well, we have called for a commitment, through an amendment, to exclude at least the privatisation, albeit partial, of the networks. And this was also rejected. After all, from a government that is about to sell off the RAI transmission towers in Mediaset, what can we expect? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Our amendments are now in the Chamber. You may reject them again, but this time you will do so in the eyes of those who voted for you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u63	She is registered to speak Senator Saggese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u64	Madam President, Mrs Ministro, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called to examine one of the most important and yet most complex and ambitious measures of the entire legislature. During his report, which was held in this House a few days ago, Mr Pagliari recalled a recurring paradox: how can we expect to reform, with a positive result, the Italian administrative machinery, if so many illustrious predecessors have already been involved in this undertaking? How can one think of achieving the results that not even the major experts - for example Massimo Severo Giannini, the most illustrious Italian administrativeist of the post-war period - have managed to achieve? The question is certainly legitimate. The reform of public administration, we are fully aware of it, is not a simple thing, yet we need to take action to try to make our bureaucracy more streamlined and efficient. There are various reasons for this reflection. First of all, it is essential to eliminate waste and reduce inefficiencies, I believe, in order to make effective the achievement of the three optimal parameters that must be connoting the activity of the public authorities, parameters that have been recalled in some of the interventions carried out before my own. I am referring to the effectiveness of the action in relation to the objectives set, to the efficiency in the use of the resources employed, whether human resources or not, and to the cost-effectiveness, intended as an ability to achieve the results effectively through the efficient use of the available resources. It is only through a reform of the public administration that it tends to make its action consistent with the famous "three" and "three" that it is possible to achieve a significant cut in unnecessary public expenditure that we are all talking about which will enable us to achieve not only the primary surplus of the budget, but also a gradual reduction in public debt and, certainly, the reduction in the tax burden on companies and households, in order to encourage a recovery in consumption and a consequent increase in gross domestic product. However, it would be unrealistic and completely dangerous to pursue these objectives by reducing the services offered to citizens. This would only lead to a decrease in public spending at the expense of the community and would have a serious impact on the standards which have hitherto been assured to the population. The objective, on the other hand, is and must be to lighten the burden of bureaucracy without reducing services, making them more efficient and cheaper. The long-term objective, in other words, is to reverse the first paragraph of Article 97 of the Constitution, as recently amended: to ensure that public administrations, in line with the European order, ensure balance of budgets and the sustainability of public debt. There are also other reasons for a radical reform of public administration. First of all, we must overcome the old logics, strongly rooted in our country, based on clientelism and assistanceism, so a massive use of human resources within the public administration has become almost a substitute for social shock absorbers, especially in the South. We must also eradicate corruption, which is becoming increasingly common to the activities of the public authorities. Transparency, efficiency and meritocracy must be the guidelines of a new and renewed public administration, which is based on good performance, as required by the Constitution itself, and is aimed at the citizen's interest, as the logic and common sense suggest. The delegation that we attribute to the Government with this provision is certainly broad and intervenes on several directions, also in the light of the modifications made in the course of the profitable work carried out by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: from the Charter of Digital Citizenship to the reorganization of the discipline of the conference of the services, from the silence-conson between public administrations to the certified signalling of beginning of activity, from the norms in the matter of self-protection to those in the matter of the prevention of corruption. Central, in the economy of the measure under consideration, are the provisions on the reorganization of the offices and staff of the public administration, which aim at a general rationalization of the offices and staff of the central and peripheral administration, with a consequent reorganization of structures and functions. On this subject, I would like to draw attention to the new Article 9 of the draft law, which lays down rules on the management's order. The first subparagraph provides, in particular, for the establishment of the role of public management, articulated in unified and coordinated roles, combined with uniform access requirements and recruitment procedures, not only based on merit, but also on training and continuous updating. The stated objective is to have a high level of professional leadership, recruited in a transparent way and on the basis of meritorious criteria, that also knows and above all adapt to the continuous and sudden changes in today's society, so as to avoid the perpetuation of that typical hiate existing between public administration and society. The forecast of three managerial roles (managers of the state, regions and local authorities), full mobility between them and the elimination of the distinction in bands, together with the forecast of new rules of access to the leadership marked by a competitive and meritorious selection, surely allow to pursue the objective of enriching the administration of competences matured on different levels of government. The need, then, to avoid assignments for life, which have characterized above all the less recent past, is guaranteed by the forecast of three-year assignments, with the possibility of renewal, and by the related possibility of revocation of the assignment, in the presence of specific objective conditions that allow to avoid a subjection of the executives to the elected bodies. It is necessary to ensure, also as an antidote to corruption, that the public leadership, while respecting the competences and specializations acquired, can and must rotate in the tasks. The rules on municipal and provincial secretaries are also included in this context. In line with the text approved by the Commission, I believe that the abolition of the secretariats would in itself be logical. It is, in fact, a leading figure in the context of the administrative activity of the local authority, called upon to carry out functions of collaboration and legal-administrative assistance in relation to the compliance of the administrative action with the laws of the State, the statutes and regulations of the institution. The absence of such a figure would be a strong vulnus compared to the need to ensure the good performance of administrative activity and the proper functioning of the bodies, in the implementation of the principle of separation of powers between politics and administration. It is a delicate, technical and responsible role to ensure the correctness and legitimacy of the acts of the public administration. For these reasons, the proposal approved by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (and in this regard I would like to thank the Minister, the Undersecretary, the rapporteur and all the members of the Commission for the wide availability and sensitivity shown on the subject) states that the abolition of the figure of the municipal secretary is adequately balanced with the forecast of an obligation, in all local authorities, of an apical figure with tasks for the implementation of the political direction, of coordination of the administrative activity and of control of the legality of the administrative action: I would say an important point in the organizational structure of the local agency. Now it is necessary - I hope in the continuation of the parliamentary process of the measure - to set additional targets in order to guarantee the full autonomy and independence of this apical figure, especially in the logic of strengthening the function of preventing corruption already assigned by Law No 190 of 2012. I also believe it is necessary to provide objective criteria for the assessment of professional and aptitude requirements for the performance of this important task, in order to always guarantee the third-party status of this professional in the context of the implementation of the political orientation, established by the political summit of the local authority, and the pursuit of the legality and correctness of administrative action, in the interests of citizens and the State itself. I am sure that with the contribution of the whole Parliament we will be able to strengthen the balance in the delicate passage between the former and the new structure of the public administration, which the country needs so much. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u65	I call Senator Martelli to explain a proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles. MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, I am not going to explain it, but I would like to proceed directly to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The vote on the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles will take place at another sitting, after the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government. The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u66	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1232-B, already approved by the House of Deputies, as amended by the Senate and again amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. I would also remind you that at the afternoon sitting on 1 April the rapporteur, Senator D'Ascola, gave the oral report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that today's draft law is part of our final examination in the context of the deflated measures of the prison population put in place in an attempt to respond to the Court of Justice's warning and to the demands of the then Head of State, Senator Napolitano, in order to give relief to the living conditions of prisoners who are far below the standards of civil countries. In my opinion, nothing has been achieved by the law passed, which provides for compensation of seven euros per day for each day of detention. Some of these measures are already law, such as empty prisons bis, while others are still being examined by the competent Commissions: I am referring to the indult and amnesty, a measure of which I am rapporteur in the Commission on Justice, which has been essentially bogged down. It would be correct for the majority to clarify their own determinations on this bill and possibly to scale it up, if only to prevent the prisoners from waiting for this measure anxiously, because of their legitimate expectation, which perhaps is not the case to preserve. However, the bill on the reform of protective custody, beyond the contingency that created it, could have been an opportunity to remedy that anomaly all typically Italian, represented by the high percentage in the prison population of inmates awaiting trial. The defendant - I say not, but our Constitutional Charter - is presumed innocent until his final sentence. Therefore, the substance of the preventive imprisonment - however you want to define it: protective custody, protective custody or with any other synonym that the fantasy of the legislative offices may or will find - does not change. It is ontologically and irreparably unjust, since it necessarily carries with it the risk of annihilating the personal freedom of a man, who is presumed innocent and who, with percentages that can be calculated and are not insignificant, will be declared such at the final outcome of the trial. To accept this risk, be careful, it may undoubtedly be necessary, but it must really constitute the extreme ratio and the exceptionality of the use of preventive imprisonment must actually be guaranteed by a system of clear rules that are not susceptible to interpretation manipulation. In this sense, the bill we are dealing with, on which, however, I announce a favourable vote, represents in many respects a missed opportunity and the corrective interventions made in the passage between the branches of Parliament have certainly not solved the main criticalities of a project that remains overall generic, eager and ineffective. This is true even if the surreal rule of the original Article 3 has been properly eliminated, which, in reforming paragraph 2-a of Article 275 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, between the preventative circumstances of the protective custody, contained the prediction - perhaps it would be better to speak of divination - that, at the outcome of the judgment, probably after years, the execution of the sentence would have been suspended pursuant to Article 665, paragraph 5, of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The passages, however, have been limited substantially to these; indeed, I recall that the passage to the Chamber has produced the elimination of that part of the bill that, introducing a paragraph 9-a to article 309 of the code of criminal procedure, has provided the possibility for the hearings of the court of the freedom of a postponement, even of office, from a minimum of five to a maximum of ten days, when this is required by the complexity of the case and the evidence. This was an attempt to make justice a little less summary, especially in cases where the court is examining orders of thousands of pages, involving dozens of subjective positions, which are - let us not forget - lives and human persons. From this point of view, therefore, I would once again urge the House to vote on the amendment I have tabled to reinstate this possibility. For the rest, there are many problems left. From the point of view of the legislative technique, in fact, in many points we continue to record that florilegio of adjectives and abstract formulas that, over the years, have always given bad proof, destined to discolorize and lose meaning in the practices of the judicial offices, that have them, with the undoubted ability dialectical of our jurists, chewed, digested and expelled, reducing them to empty simulations, devoid of life and practical meaning. This was the case, in fact, with the passage from the "sufficient" to the "serious" clues of guilt required for the adoption of the precautionary measures. It happened in 1988 - you will remember - and was greeted, at the time, as a revolution, yet it did not prevent the so-called Tangentopoli, the abuse of protective custody in function of coercion to confession, suicides in prison or at the doors of the prison, of the various Gardini or Cagliari, annihilated from the prospect of a preventive imprisonment, felt as unjust and inhuman. How not to remember the dramatic words that Gabriele Cagliari, before choking himself with a plastic envelope, left, as a lucid testimony of the practices of those years, in the letters to his family members. I would like to quote one step and, since these are words written by a man who, at some point in time, would have taken his life, I would like to ask the senators present in this House to listen very carefully to them: "My dearest friends, I am about to give you a new, great pain. I've been thinking hard and I've decided that I can't stand this shame any longer. The criminalization of behavior that has been of all, of the same magistrates, even in Milan, has put out only a few of us, abandoning us to the pillage and resentment of public opinion. The heavy, unbalanced and unjust hand of the judges did the rest. They really treat us like non-people, like dogs thrown back every time to the kennel. And again: The conviction that I have made is that the magistrates consider prison nothing but a tool of work, psychological torture, where practices can mature, or mold, indifferently, even if it is the skin of the people. Prison is nothing more than a headless and soulless animal locker. And after a moment, he took his own life. The same fate as the 1988 reform, Mr President, will certainly be the subject of the reform introduced by Article 2 of the measure we are debating today, in the part in which it adds the phrase 'current' to that 'concrete danger of flight' which can justify protective custody, in accordance with point (b) of Article 274 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is clear, in fact, that a concrete danger is certainly also present and that the concept of topicality lends itself to the most extensive interpretive latitudes. Even the same idea, which of course is present in the provision, of home custody as an ordinary precautionary measure is realized in an involute and cryptic way. Perhaps the majority were ashamed of it, building it, just as it was built, only in negative, with the forecast, introduced by Article 4 of the bill, of a new article 275, paragraph 3, which provides the possibility to adopt protective custody in prison only when the other coercive or interdittive precautionary measures, even if applied retroactively, are inadequate. Similar considerations with respect to the obligation imposed on the judge, with the addition of a paragraph 3-a to Article 275 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, to indicate, when applying custody in prison, the specific reasons why he considers inappropriate, in the concrete case, the measure of house arrests with the control procedures referred to in Article 275-a. But do you really think that it is difficult for a judge to motivate and write a motivation that justifies the use of protective custody in prison and not already of that alternative home? Ladies and gentlemen, those who attend for professional reasons our courts have already had the opportunity to see protective custody measures in prison which, even before the reform that we are going to launch today, already motivate on the issue of the need for protective custody with arguments so apodictic and prejudiceal as to be unassailable as dogmas. In fact, in my opinion, it would have been more effective and linear, rather than spreading the motivational path of the judge of childish and merely logical-formal obstacles, to make recourse to protective custody in prison exclusively to the danger of the commission of crimes with violence or against the person. This would also have been fairer in terms of the appearance of the values at stake. Only the need to protect the supreme good of people's life and safety can justify the maximum compression of the good of the personal freedom of an presumed innocent or of a not guilty (if you prefer), represented by infrared detention, with all that implies in terms of psychic and existential suffering. But this would mean a radical change in the perspective of the reform, which cannot be saved - I am sorry to say to my colleagues - not even from the incorporation of the amendments that operate on a fundamentally and irremediably wrong structure, for the reasons I have tried to put forward. This has not been done. That is why the reform, which also sees our vote in favour of the good intentions that inspired it, will not be effective, will not reduce the abuse of protective custody, will not bring down the prison population and will be a missed opportunity, one of the many in this legislature. You see, I'm not referring so much to protective custody, because, by firing this law, we certainly don't get the result we're hoping for. However, I would like to appeal to the left, to the majority, to this Government: we have received requests from everyone, we have been sanctioned by Europe, we have received requests - as I said just now - from the then Head of State and we have received requests from the Pope, to try to eliminate this inhuman living condition of the prison population, determined essentially by the overpopulation. We could then intervene with the measure of indult and amnesty, of which I and my colleague Senator Cirinna are co-rapporteurs, avoiding that they take advantage of the indult a number of subjects who have committed crimes and have been conducted of particular social alarm and reducing to a minimum those who may possibly benefit from it. However, we do not allow such a long-awaited and so much-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-called measure from various parts to stand still, however with indifference. Then I say to you: if you ever feel that it cannot be approved, have the courage to have it scheduled in the Commission and to reject it, because at least in this way you will prove that you have the courage of your ideas, the courage of your actions, the courage of your actions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Falanga. FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). I shall conclude by saying that, alas, this courage will not be demonstrated by the majority. As Manzoni said, the courage is only of those who have it and not of whom they do not have it, and you of the majority and of the government, in this House, do not have courage. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u68	Madam President, I am speaking in a'supercrowded' Chamber, not like Italian prisons. The draft law before this House today deals with amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure on personal protective measures, amendments to Law No 354 of 26 July 1975 on visits to persons with disabilities in serious situations. The report to the bill, despite the high-sounding title, begins with the reciting that the prison problem in Italy is chronic and takes on ever more worrying dimensions, with overcrowded penitentiary institutions, with prison conditions less and less worthy of a civil country; an aggression of the prison situation under the pressure of a security anxiety, sometimes indulged with too much ease, that has produced an emerging legislation, only concerned to prevent and punish without worrying to have attention for the overall sanctioning relapses. The report also states that it is not only a question of curbing the scourge of overcrowding that has characterized our prison system for years, and this proposal for a law is aimed at addressing the part of the prison problem related to the tendency to use in a preventive way and also at reducing by law the scope of the application of caution without adversely affecting the safety of citizens and the efficiency of the process. Certainly in these words a dichotomy can be seen. The measure envisages raising the threshold for the application of protective custody to criminal offences punishable by no less than five years without penalising the overall security requirement of citizens. Everything seems perfect, all clear, if it were not that I then asked for the list of senators who will speak in general discussion and about 50% of the speeches will be the prerogative of the senators of the North League and then I asked myself some questions, that is, if it is such a useful, simple, perfect and just measure that it has not even provoked the stimulus to the discussion, just because, being perfect, it is not possible to question it or perhaps it is better to make it pass under the banner, subtone, to the label, as someone would say, in the general silence. And perhaps that is the answer, Madam President. There is little clamour about a measure that is indissolubly linked to other measures always inherent in preventive imprisonment. This is yet another measure, yet another bill that is born and has its roots in the swamp of the overcrowding of prisons, compared to which even to us of the League it is quite evident the emergency. It is an emergency which, especially in the last two or three years, has been addressed by a series of emergency measures which have not solved the problem of overcrowding in prisons. In particular, in the first months of this parliamentary term, the issue of prisons was considered the main problem to be addressed, already with the Letta government, and I am not just referring to the issue of justice in general, but more generally to all the overall action of the Executive: little attention has been paid to other important things, we have talked only and exclusively about this. And then there was a production of decrees, from the decree-law of Severino (named by us, surely in the wrong way, empty prisons) to the decree-law of the Chancellors (and certainly in this case we have mistakenly used that definition of empty prisons). Then there was the decree-law of December 2013, which cited in the title "Controlled reduction of the prison population." Another decree in the matter of detention and non-prisoner was that of suspension of the provision for putting to the test. The testing has always been very nice to us. All these measures have imagined solutions taken cheerfully that have been channeled into a groove that has not dealt systematically and organically with the overcrowding of prison institutions. These are buffer and occasional measures which have only shown how clear the problem of prisons is and which have led him to become entrenched in recent years. It seems obvious - and we are absolutely convinced of this - that sooner or later this Government and this majority will lead us to a clemential measure that perhaps, once and for all, you will have the courage to call indult or amnesty. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] There is a consideration to be made for those who listen to us from home: the penalties for crimes that create enormous tension in the population will go down. I am referring to those relating to what is sometimes considered to be micro-criminalities. They are probably those that for families and among citizenship should receive more attention from politicians. The report also mentions one very simple thing. For example, it is said to bear in mind that, under existing legislation, among the offences punished with the penalty of imprisonment up to four years we find, among others, serious injuries caused by violation of the rules on road traffic by a drunken person. We want to raise the bar to five. We are also talking about aiding illegal immigration. Probably the legislator did not seem true to put in condition the illegal immigrant who could be even more protected. Then there is the abandonment, discharge and uncontrolled storage of waste in the territory in an emergency. We've talked about this in all the committees. We have produced rivers of paper with regard to ILVA and then we are going to put in condition these subjects not to be punished properly. There is also the launch of rockets or the use of instruments to offend at sporting events. We all rinsed our mouths, every time, at the end of the game, something happened, about the fact that we probably should have more restrictive laws. Madam President, I believe that this measure represents two facts, in particular. It represents an unconditional surrender of the state in the face of crime at a time when the state must and should put in place measures to combat those phenomena of crime and to put in a position to be absolutely heavy in the face of the penalty to be served. In all the electoral campaigns there is always someone who repeats to the boredom that security is a very important thing for citizens, that the certainty of punishment must be confirmed in this state and then you get to these measures. I don't know if you have any idea what the worry and fear of those who come home at night is, if you ever wonder if there are conditions for a person to be "serena" (I probably use the wrong word). In another intervention concerning these decrees I had defined the government as still as dwarfs in the garden. You know the colorful ones? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] At this point, I say that, rather than constantly giving birth to laws of this kind, it would probably be the least harm to stand still. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u69	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u72	Mr Albano (PD). Madam President, I would like to point out in this House that it is now days since the newspapers of my beloved Liguria Region have read only about the attacks suffered by prison police officers by prisoners. The last, in temporal terms, took place on March 27th in Sanremo Prison, where two agents went to hospital because of the beatings received by a prisoner with psychiatric problems. I have submitted some urgent questions that have not received any response from the Government: the question 3-01000, published on May 29, 2014, in which the difficulties due to the lack of the presence of the penitentiary managers in the surrounding houses of the Province of Imperia due to the amalgamation with the Piedmont Region, and the question 3-01415, with reply to the Commission, published on November 12, 2014, in which the overcrowding of the aforementioned surrounding houses is denounced. To date an urgent ministerial inspection has been requested to the DAP by the trade union acronyms of the Prison Police in the Ligurian institutions, where the staff suffers daily aggressions and all the essential security garrisons of the Prison Police are missing. I therefore request a quick answer to these questions to give a response to the people who face every day the risk of violence, both physical and verbal, by the prisoners and I would like to know how the Government intends to address this situation to be considered unacceptable for a civil country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency will urge the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u75	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Colleagues, on 2 April this House recalled that the current one was the 8th World Day for the Awareness of Autism, one of the most widespread disabilities, which only in Italy affects 500,000 people and, among them, many children and young people. Then we all shared, even rhetorically, the need for Parliament, the Government and the various institutional actors to pay more and more attention and maximum support to the world of disability. Except that, less than a month after the inauguration of Expo, strange surprises emerge. I am not referring to the initiative of the Milan Democratic Party that, in order to compensate for the loss of membership, allows to pay the entrance ticket to Expo for each new membership under 30, thanks - I imagine - to funding and funders conquered at crowdfunding dinners. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I am referring, instead, to the terrible surprise that disabled students will have to pay admission to the Universal Exhibition. For school visits it was decided that, while teachers or teachers of support of disabled students have free admission, disabled students themselves must pay the entrance ticket instead. The decision is doubly shameful, also because the Expo 2015 company has established the "School Project," a project that would offer the school world the opportunity to be the protagonist of a didactic and formative path for the diffusion of correct eating habits among students, involving them in valuable experiences that can guide them in conscious food choices. Nice involvement! With our colleagues in the Northern League Group, we tabled the question 4-03753, which was published on 2 April, in which we denounced this serious fact which shows absolute insensitivity. With this question we ask the Government to take an urgent initiative to allow free access to Expo 2015 to students with disabilities, given the cultural and educational importance of the event and the social purpose that the same seeks to protect the well-being and health of citizens. The Ministers for Education, University and Research, Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policy and Labour and Social Policy - to which our document is addressed - intervene here in good time, avoiding the decision delays that are added to the delays that are - alas - adversely characterizing the realization of the pavilions. The world of school, which has been booking school visits for weeks, is not capable of this crude and unqualified decision. Let's at least try to avoid another silly thing here. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u78	LUMIA (PD). Madam President, I would like to draw your attention from the Government to Question 4-03510 concerning yet another incident of employment crisis. This is a contradictory situation, Madam President, because it is the ACG TeamSystem Group. This newly created company is likely to see 34 employees fired. The company ACG was born on 1 January 2014, against a sale of a branch of company operated by IBM. The ACG is purchased by the TeamSystem group, which is a very solid company in Pesaro and operates mainly in the Adriatic area. It is known at national level, has many orders and is able to handle complex processes. So the strange thing is that this employment affair is in danger of becoming paradoxical. I therefore ask the Presidency to ask the Minister for Labour to give an answer and to deal with this strange, dramatic affair for the workers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency will ask for the answer you have requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u81	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, I am pleased that you are the chair, who is a member of my own Commission. I report a report that I have learned from the website www.partyrightsmilitari.org on which there is a statement, signed by Comellini and Turco, that concerns the Army, according to which there seems to be departments in northern Italy that are preparing to leave for Libya and Somalia. We want to know if we're at war or not. While in the decree-law on international missions there is absolutely nothing in view of this, except an EUBAM mission with very few units (73), on this site there is no mention of a mobilization. I repeat, it would appear that there is a preparation (the military call it "amalgama") aimed at simulating scenarios in the theatre of war. I ask Minister Pinotti to deny or give us further news with Minister Gentiloni, who this morning met the President of Libya as well as the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces: we would like to understand whether he has made any agreements or whether he is taking us to war without our knowledge. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u84	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I draw information from a news article and have heard from the citizens of Perugia. I read: A creepy scene, between the Kiss Square and the underpass that leads to the Broletto: the neighborhood policemen at the end of an operation trigger the handcuffs to the wrists of a Tunisian and do to bring him to the police station. But at this point the unlikely happens: another North African sees the scene and, after having called to collect other compatriots, he jumps at the policemen by pulling out the belt and trying to hit them to loosen the grip on the arrested compatriot. In the meantime, the other Tunisians are coming, and they're coming down with menacing air to the cops. The result is inevitably a parapiglia, with the police who seek and immediately get the support of the flying team: once on site, the forces rebalance and Tunisians are forced to disappear not before trying to bottle the police. A citizen who has assisted comments in this way: These are convinced that Perugia is theirs, that it is their territory. Madam President, this happened not last year, but on 4 April. A few days later, in the underpass of Via Sicilia, a minor was sexually assaulted and harassed by a foreigner. We are in the area of Fontivegge, near the station, an area that unfortunately has adapted, indeed I would say accustomed to degradation and not adequate, because all we want is that Perugia does not adapt to this degradation, indeed the opposite. Madam President, last week I drew the Minister of the Interior's attention to this situation which had developed in Varese. We are hundreds of kilometers away, but this means that every city in our country lives the same conditions of discomfort, degradation and insecurity. I invited the Minister of the Interior to come to Varese without escort and to cross Piazza della Repubblica. Today I invite him to pass also from Perugia, to cross Piazza del Bacio, to pass under the railway in the underpass and to go to Via del Macello, without escort, like any ordinary citizen, in an evening hour; he will notice the degradation that unfortunately the Forces of the Order can no longer contain, because they lack adequate tools and lack of protocols from the Ministry that allow them to face similar situations. There is also a lack of laws that give the whole State, the country the certainty that those who commit crimes, such as that carried out by this underground (which had already been expelled), are kept away from the country. In the absence of such measures, our cities remain prey to these situations. We do not bow to this, we do not bow to the citizens of Perugia and we invite the Minister to take this step too. Every time there is such a situation we will remind him and we are sure that the pilgrimage to the cities of the country will only do him good. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u85	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-425.ana.u86	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8 p.m.
