ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u4	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting for 20 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 9.37 a.m. and resumed at 9.57 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u6	Colleagues, let's resume our work. I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u7	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u8	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:58 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1552, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 572. The rapporteurs, Senators Fattorini and Filippin, have requested authorization to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Fattorini.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u10	Mr President, the text of the draft law under consideration, following the amendments introduced by the Committees on the merits and the proposal for the adoption of Act No 572, provides for the ratification and enforcement of the Convention on Jurisdiction, the applicable law, recognition, enforcement and cooperation in matters of parental responsibility and measures for the protection of minors, made at the Hague in October 1996. This Convention dates back precisely to 1996 and was signed by Italy only in April 2003, with a delay of seven years, and also by virtue of an express request to that effect by the Council of the European Union. A long time has passed before Parliament was responsible for the approval of ratification. The examination was in fact started only in 2011, in the last legislature, and only thanks to the presentation of four legislative proposals of parliamentary initiative, also stimulated by various acts of direction approved by both the House and the Senate. Difficulties and resistances of various kinds have long prevented the submission of a government bill, all the more serious since, by a decision of 2008, the Council of Ministers of the European Union had set a deadline for ratification by the Member States in two years (and thus by 2010). In this legislature, the Government finally presented its own bill, which was approved with some amendments by the Chamber of Deputies on 25 June. The agreement aims at the full revision of the 1961 Convention on the Jurisdiction of Authorities and the applicable law in the field of the protection of minors. In particular, this text aims at overcoming certain critical issues arising in the functioning of the 1961 Convention, following the entry into force of the 1989 United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which, as we know, has marked a profound change in the approach of international law to the protection of children. In addition to this framework governing relations with the 1989 Convention, it is also recalled that this Convention also has the objective - and this is its most delicate point - of giving an adequate form of legislation (the rapporteur for the Justice Commission, Senator Filippin, will then speak about it) in the Italian legal system to the so-called kafala, a legal institution for the social protection of abandoned children or in widespread difficulties in some countries of Islamic law, where adoption is not planned. It is an institution in some way comparable to the instrument of foster care, from which it differs in several respects, which makes it possible - generally through a judicial procedure - to welcome children into families other than the natural one. The institute of kafala, unknown to Italian and Western law, is provided for by specific rules of international law, including the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child of 1989. With the ratification of the Convention, the institute of kafala could finally be regulated also in our system, distinguishing, on a case-by-case basis, the delicate questions of compatibility between the Italian legal system and the various kafala measures provided for by the Islamic systems. Turning more generally to the content of the text which is being ratified, and in particular, as far as I am concerned, to the profiles within the competence of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, it should be noted that the Convention in question consists of 63 articles divided into seven chapters covering respectively the scope, jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions, cooperation, general provisions and final clauses. I would like to turn quickly to the main chapters and ask the Presidency for permission to attach the full text of my report to the documents, which contains their overall explanation. Articles 1 to 4 (Chapter I) outline the scope of the Convention, i.e. measures relating to the attribution, exercise and revocation of parental responsibility, the right of custody, protection, care and similar institutions, placement of the child in a host family or institution (including through kafala or similar institution), supervision by public authorities and the administration of the child's property. Articles 5 to 14 (Chapter II) contain provisions relating to jurisdiction (which is generally conferred on the administrative or judicial authorities of the State of habitual residence of the child). Articles 15 to 22 (Chapter III) lay down provisions on applicable law, generally establishing the applicability, even in this case, of the rules of the State where the child is habitually resident. Articles 23 to 28 (Chapter IV) focus on full recognition in other States and enforcement of measures taken in the field of child protection by the authorities of a State. Finally, as regards the draft ratification law, as stated in Article 13, there is no financial variance for the implementation of the provisions, while, for all other aspects of the Commission's more relevant content, reference is made to the report by Mrs Filippin. The Convention does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, Community law or other international obligations assumed by our country. The hope, as I said, is that the measure can be quickly approved, recalling that the Italian delay in fulfilling this international commitment is the subject of evaluation by the European Union. By two letters dated 23 May 2012 and 14 June 2013, the European Commission asked our country to make known the reasons for such a serious delay, considering the possible opening of an infringement procedure. With a subsequent letter dated 18 July, Brussels again asked to know the precise timetable for the adoption of the draft ratification law, what we are asking you to approve today. We therefore urge the House to approve this text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the full text of your report so that it is annexed to the Minutes of the sitting. I call the rapporteur, Senator Filippin.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, Mr Fattorini has made clear the content of the Convention for which ratification is proposed today. However, the draft law No 1552, of government initiative, is not limited to the mere ratification of the Convention made at the Hague on 19 October 1996, but also provides for a series of rules for the adaptation of the internal system. During repeated hearings with the Foreign Affairs and Justice Committees, as well as in the subsequent general discussion, some critical issues emerged in the text already voted on in the Chamber of Deputies, not on the text which was ratified, but on the arrangements for adapting the Italian legislation of certain institutions. The two Committees therefore opted to propose a simple ratification of the international instrument to the House, but aware that this will require, at a later date, the provision of additional adaptation rules. At its meeting on 17 February last, the Commissions in fact gave the mandate to the rapporteurs to report favourably on the text of bill No 1552, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, but with the deletion of Articles 4 to 12 inclusive and Article 14, and to propose the absorption into the same of bill No 572, at the first signature of Senator Di Biagio. The importance of the Convention and the need for its speedy ratification, for the reasons which Mr Fattorini has mentioned earlier, have therefore recommended this solution. It is recalled that the Convention aims above all to give adequate legislation in the Italian legal system to kafala, an unfamiliar institution in our system and in the western ones. I quote in this case the definition that kafala has given the United Sections of the Cassation, with a judgment filed on September 17, 2013: an institute of Muslim law that - given the Koranic prohibition of adoption (received in all the laws of Muslim law (...) and in compliance with the precept that obliges every good Muslim to help the needy and in particular the orphans - allows a couple of spouses, or even a single person, to guard and assist orphaned minors or at least abandoned with the commitment to maintain, educate and educate them, as if they were children of their own up to the age, without however the entrusted person entering legally into the family that welcomes him and without the affidator being conferred powers of representation or protection that remain attributed to the competent public authorities. It follows that the recognition of the institute of kafala cannot result in in our legal system effects identical or similar to those of adoption, but rather performs the function of justifying the activity of material and affective care of the child with the exclusion of any bond of a parental nature or even of legal representation alone. This definition makes you understand why it has been decided to meditate further on the rules of internal adaptation, to which however it will be necessary to proceed in such a way that the institute of kafala can finally be regulated also in our system, but distinguishing case by case the delicate questions of compatibility between the Italian legal system and the various measures of kafala provided instead in the Islamic systems. Always to explain briefly why the rapporteurs have induced themselves to propose to the Assembly the simple ratification and the consequent momentary deletion of part of the norms provided for in the government bill, I recall, first, the ambiguity of the legislative text arrived at the examination of the Senate. In fact, on the one hand, we try to introduce a different regulation compared to the internal institutes of custody and adoption in the apparent respect of the characteristics of the Islamic institute and we do not choose the simple way to foresee international custody for minors not in a state of abandonment or international adoption for those in a state of abandonment. But, on the other hand - and hence the ambiguity of the text - the discipline is not articulated in such a way as to make it actually conform to the characteristics of kafala by attributing, for example, to kefalins, that is, the family or the individual person who takes care of the minor in the case of a state of abandonment, a full and proper parental responsibility, for example of the guardians, and, therefore, including also the power of representation that instead remains at the head of the consular authority of the country of origin of the minor. It is therefore necessary to examine this part further and to reformulate the draft law in order to avoid that these innovations, which are provided for in it and which aim to ensure that the child is protected of his/her higher interest when they are in family and personal situations of particular discomfort and suffering, can lead to disharmony with Italian domestic legislation and, in particular, with the principles in force in the matter of adoption and reliance actually opening the way to a system that circumvents our legislation, the one that had been introduced thanks to the Hague Convention of 1993 on International Adoptions. In conclusion, the draft law of ratification, following the changes introduced at the sitting referred to by the two Commissions, lays down the rules for the authorisation of ratification (Article 1) and for the order of enforcement (Article 2). Amendments to Article 3 were then introduced by identifying only the Italian central authority in the Ministry of Justice - Department for the juvenile justice, which, for the performance of its tasks, makes use, where necessary, of the representation and assistance of the State's Court, as well as of the juvenile services of the administration of the justice and may request the assistance of the bodies of the public administration and of all bodies whose purposes correspond to the functions deriving from the International Convention. I would remind you that this definition is derived from Law No 64 of 1994 on the ratification of the European Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Decisions concerning the custody of minors and the re-establishment of custody, which was opened for signature in Luxembourg on 20 May and the Hague Convention of 25 October 1980 on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction. This definition is therefore constantly repeated in our acts. It was also foreseen that Articles 4 to 12 and 14 should be deleted for the reasons I have just outlined and that Senator Fattorini had also mentioned. However, it is clear that Article 13, which contains a clause of financial invariance for the implementation of the provisions, has been retained. For the reasons already stated by my colleague, we are calling for the rapid adoption of the draft law as proposed, that is to say simple ratification, and for the further but necessary adaptation rules to be postponed to a later date. [[Applause from Senator Mattesini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u12	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u13	Mr President, the subject we are discussing is certainly thorny and very delicate. I will try not to dwell, given the limited time available, on the situation of the last twenty years, in which our country has slept peacefully on this Convention, dating back to 1996, which it signed in 2003 but has never actually ratified. Let us remember, Mr President, for those who listen to us, that with the signing of a Convention a country declares that it shares the principles contained in it, but it is only with ratification that it undertakes to enforce them on its territory as a national law. Suddenly therefore this ratification today under consideration becomes urgent and it becomes urgent because there is an infringement procedure that is about to be opened, yet again against our country, on the protection of minors and their balanced development, which would seem something very humiliating for Italy. It is then accelerated and attempts are being made to resolve this annoying situation today, after what happened in the final vote on the measure in the House, where the votes in favour were 422, the votes against 22 (of the North League) and the abstentions 4, which probably repented. An explanation of vote was also made by a Member of the League on this ratification which I would say was not very successful: our colleague Mr Rondini tore his clothes to show that the issue of kafala had probably been dealt with in a way that was not good and without the necessary measures. There was talk of kafala, a term that only in contemporary times has acquired a translated sense in reference to the measures of protection of minors. As those who preceded me well said, this institute can be compared to a trust, a kind of social protection up to the age, in which the relations between the child and the family of origin never fail as happens instead in our order. There has been a battle, which we have supported in the House, and no one has probably listened to us, but we see that then there has been a reversal of attitude in the Commissions meeting with merit here in the Senate. Articles 1, 2, 15 and part of Article 3 are confirmed, while for the others the deletion has been proposed. As Senator Filippin correctly said, we will need to meditate on this issue and consider the issue of kafala with a certain punctuality, if ever we should recover it and bring it back to this House. We will then see what will happen after the bill has been passed on our examination. It will certainly have to follow detailed regulations and appropriate measures will have to be taken to regulate relations between the institutions for the protection of children of the countries that have signed the Convention, but also for relations with other countries. Moreover, our movement has always, let's say, kept an eye on relations with Islam because we believe that we must keep a great deal of attention to this aspect. We have also tabled an agenda, which will be explained on time by my colleague Stefani, who commits the Government to take up certain measures which have not been foreseen at the meetings of the Commission. They say it's just donkeys who don't change their minds. We are pleased, therefore, that in the Commissions there has been a reversal of the trend in a positive way compared to the arguments that we had brought to the attention of the House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u14	Thank you, Senator Council, also because we had a long time (19 years) to reflect on this issue, since the Convention dates back to 1996.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u15	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u16	Mr President, first of all, we have to point out how Italy usually lags behind in ratifying the Conventions. The measure that we are about to vote on, in fact, dates back to 1996 and updates the Hague Convention of 5 October 1961, today in force in our country, signed by Italy in May 2003. In practice, from 1961 we reach 1996 and then sign after seven years: in 2003. Then we thought for another twelve years to finally realize that we are not ready. Yet Europe is ready to open an infringement procedure against us that we certainly cannot afford. Dozens and dozens of minors present in our country have not been enough to conclude that there are cases of children in the state of abandonment or non-abandonment who are waiting to be protected as well as their peers born in Italy. However, we must not forget the debate that has taken place during these months, from which the choice to proceed with a dry ratification was born, after excerpting from the articles which, on the other hand, gave rise to doubts and confusion. First of all, those relating to the Kafala Institute which is in conflict with the Institute of Adoption referred to in Law No 184 of 1983, but for this reason such a delay cannot be tolerated. Unlike what happens in the Eurocentric legal systems, the Islamic systems of derivation not only do not contemplate the institution of adoption, but even prohibit it. This is on the assumption that the relationship of sonship must be rigidly anchored to the biological generation since the family is of divine origin, while the sonship is exclusively an expression of the will of God and therefore, the human person does not possess the powers to artificially constitute such relationship. The institute of positive Islamic law, the kafala finds its inspiration in the Koranic principle, according to which every good Muslim is obliged to help the needy, in particular the orphans. On this point, we have audited various associations as well as legal practitioners, who have pointed out that the measure was to be dealt with with with the utmost caution, criticizing the hasty and perhaps even superficial work of the other branch of Parliament. While Italy, up to now, has remained silent with respect to the ratification of the 1996 Hague Convention on Child Protection Measures, including the Kafala Institute, it is quite different the attitude of many countries on the European continent that have already provided in various ways to recognize the right to have a family even to children from States that do not know the adoption and that are protected through kafala. Belgium, for example, by a 2005 law, has introduced specific rules for the adoption of children from countries whose national law does not know or prohibit adoption. In order to grant a kafala measure and to pass the adoption, certain conditions must be met. In the meantime, adoptors must have taken courses of specific preparations and obtained the measure of suitability; there must have been no contact between the adoptors and the persons entrusted with the care of the child; the child must be orphaned of mother and father and must be the recipient of an abandonment measure. This means that it must be subject to the protection of the public authority. In addition, the competent authority of the home State must have provided for a form of protection for the child and must have authorised the transfer of the child for the purpose of a stable stay abroad, while the competent authorities, both Belgian and the country of origin of the child, must have approved in writing the decision to entrust the child to the adoptor or adoptors. Spain, on the other hand, by law No 54 of 2007 on international adoption, has been endowed with norms of recognition of the institute of kafala, which in some way anticipate the regime of the Hague Convention of 1996. Adoption and kafala are considered distinct, but both are likely to be recognised, provided that they are constituted by the competent public authority as means of international protection of the child. In Spain, an early nationality of the child is chosen in the sense that, when the adoption of a child is requested by Spanish nationals, the domestic law on child protection measures applies. Instead, for foreigners resident in Spain who have the nationality of a country that does not know the adoption, the kafala on a minor who is not orphan is not recognized, because the consent to the adoption of those who have the responsibility of the child cannot be considered to exist. In Luxembourg, too, the rules of private international law have led the courts to apply some sort of early nationality to the child. In Germany, the adoption of an abandoned child subject to kafala is possible when applicants are of German nationality or in any case spouses whose marriage is governed by German law. The problem of consent to adoption is solved by an important rule that allows the application of German law, instead of that of nationality of the child, when this corresponds to the best interest of the child. The United Kingdom, on the other hand, has established that the kafala measure has in some cases been qualified as "protection of the child" and the consent of the guardians has been considered valid for adoption. In Switzerland, a law of 2002, in force since 2003, also laid down additional requirements for the adoption of a child whose national law prohibits adoption. Therefore, for Swiss adopters, and for foreign applicants in Switzerland, it is possible to adopt a minor foreigner because the Swiss law that provides for adoption applies. However, additional requirements are required for the case of a minor alien who enters Switzerland in kafala: for example, documentary proof of parental consent is required for the adoption of the child or a declaration from the country of origin stating the reasons why consent cannot be issued and a statement from a competent authority of the country of origin of the child certifying that the child has been entrusted to future adoptive parents in Switzerland. France is the only European country to have expressly introduced in its civil code a rule prohibiting the adoption of a child from a country that prohibits adoption. It is stated that: The adoption of a foreign minor may not be pronounced if his personal law prohibits this institution, unless the child is born and is habitually resident in France. In fact, however, despite this prohibition, the measures of kafala are recognized in France and the same adoption is also given to these children. In fact, the adoption of a child in kafala is prohibited in France only when one or both spouses have the nationality of a country whose law prohibits adoption. If, however, they reside in France and their union is governed by French law, adoption may also be given to a minor subject to kafala, provided that he is a child born and resident in France. Moreover, for French couples the prohibition of adopting a child in kafala does not exist if the child was born and resides in France. You may wonder why I wanted to do this legislative excursus. In fact I felt it appropriate to make this comparison with the legal systems closest to the Italian one in order to highlight the difficulty for our country to make the institute of kafala compatible with the existing legal system. The most felt, and at the same time even more debated, problem was that it was necessary to determine whether a minor subject to the Kafala Institute in his country could receive protection similar to that which would guarantee the application of the adoption, but through other institutions provided for by the current legal system. The fact that we have reached a meditated conclusion makes us understand the need not to delay this ratification further and unnecessarily, having to consider itself essential and priority in our country a regulatory intervention such as to make applicable, as soon as possible and in a completely uniform manner, the norms to protect minors coming from countries of Islamic origin. This ratification is important not only for the recipients of the legal institution that should benefit from this protection, but also for the law enforcement professionals who will have to apply the law and find the right solutions to solve any problems that might arise, which may be confused as discrimination against helpless children. We are sure that ratification will allow us to identify the main road to safeguard the best interests of the child, of which my Group has always shown attention and special attention. It is in the interests of the child that the final vote of this measure should be organized, since Italy is the scene of the reception of thousands of children from Islamic countries, and unfortunately very often orphans of fathers and mothers. My only regret is that I would have liked to have accepted an amendment of mine tabled with reference to paragraph 2 of Article 3, in the text proposed by the rapporteurs, where it is prescribed that the central authority may avail itself of the assistance of the bodies of the public administration and of all the bodies whose purposes correspond to the functions deriving from the Convention. The amendment proposal, which was not accepted in the Justice Commission, concerned the recognition of the support function to be assigned to the Guarantee Authority for Childhood and Adolescence, as an institutional contact point to which the Ministry of Justice could refer because it was a third party, independent and neutral entity. Strangely, he didn't want to give any voice to this authority. I wonder whether it is annoying to anyone or whether it is considered merely an institutional figure whose formal nature is not compatible with interests which often go beyond common good intentions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u17	I address the greeting of the Assembly of the Senate to the students of the Professional Institute "Achille Grandi" in Cantù, in the province of Como, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u18	Mr President, I am speaking to make a small contribution on our part to the complex process that has led us today to discuss the ratification of this convention. Already only all the years that have passed since it was signed perhaps suggest that there has been more than one perplexity. On the other hand, there are great doubts on our part about the draft ratification law. As my previous colleague, Senator Consiglio, has already pointed out, it is very particular the process of discussing the provision between the House and the Senate. In the House the Group of the North League and Autonomy led a strong and decisive opposition to the bill in the part concerning the transposition of the so-called institute of kafala. I am referring to all those articles which govern the application of this institute, on which we show not mere perplexities, but a firm opposition. In the House alone, the North League voted against this measure, which then came to the Commission in the Senate and had a very structured process in this case too and which fortunately included a round of hearings. During these audits, subjects who, far from having any knowledge of the subject matter, on the contrary, followed very closely, even from the technical point of view, these institutions. All the audit subjects - including the Children's Friends Association, the same President of the court of minors in Rome, the Italian Association of Judges for minors and the family, the National Association of adoptive and foster families - shared the deep concerns expressed by the Lega Nord Group and the Autonomous House. All these audits have found a profound inconsistency with respect to the iter of recognition in Italy of the assistance of the minor in state of abandonment, in reference to the institute of the Islamic law of the kafala. At this point, it might seem that, at the end of the examination in the Commission, the problem has been resolved; in our view, this is not the case. Let us remember that in the Commission the North League had tabled an amendment aimed precisely at abolishing the entire articles governing the situation of the child in a state of abandonment and of the one not in a state of abandonment, with the application of the Kafala Institute in a way that we considered absolutely not acceptable. The Commission then decided to carry out the removal of these rules directly. However, we still believe that there is a problem that has not been resolved at this point. With the ratification of the Convention sic et simpliciter, we are faced with a difficulty represented in particular by Article 3 of the Convention itself. Article 3 refers to the measures provided for in Article 1, including the obligation to ensure the recognition and enforcement of protective measures in all Contracting States, and provides, in point (e), for the placing of the child in a host family or institution, or for his legal assistance through kafala or similar institution, so that the problem remains. We wonder, at this point, how the Italian State will deal with this express provision and we would therefore like to understand how, when and how this type of institution will be implemented, on which - as one of my colleagues has already said - we have great doubts, so much so that we have even submitted to the House a preliminary question of constitutionality. We believe that the need for the protection of the child and the interest of the child, in particular of the many minor children who are in a situation of grave discomfort, must prevail in front of all institutions. There is a need for serious protection and care for children, regardless of their type of institution. We must have the courage to say that the child's interest must be absolutely prevalent and must overcome religious issues and the application of these institutions. No matter how difficult this may be, we really must have this courage. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that we are going to present an agenda, which will be dealt with and which we will then perhaps be presenting in greater detail. This agenda refers to all minors who have arrived in Italy unaccompanied as a result of these very sad migratory flows that have affected Italy, especially in the last two years. We remember that, since January 2014, 6,722 minors have arrived, of which 4,598 are unaccompanied. The 5th ANCI Report 2011-2012 on unaccompanied minors notes that the problem is taking on emerging dimensions. Unfortunately, we need to think about the link between the abandonment of unaccompanied minors and migration flows. We will deepen the concept in more detail when we explain the agenda. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u19	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u20	Mr President, some Members have been ironic about the fact that this 1996 Convention is only ratified today. But this was no accident. Since 1996 all governments have somehow prevented the ratification of this Convention, for the simple reason that, over the years, the situation has become worse, it has not simplified itself. The introduction of kafala into our system means the submission of our order to Islamic law. To understand us, it would be as if we were saying to the Iranian Parliament, to the Afghan Parliament or to that of Pakistan that parents can rely on an Italian child, but they must necessarily convert to Catholicism. I would like to see the debate that would result in an Islamic parliament from such a proposal. Alas, let's see what kafala requires. I have here the notes and notes of the governments pro tempore of these twenty years, in which, black and white, it is written that, since it is mandatory for those who take in custody a child who professes the Muslim religion or who in any case Islamizes, and therefore converts, there are clear profiles of contrast with the right to freely profess their faith, enshrined in Article 19 of the Constitution, and with the constitutionally guaranteed principle, and affirmed also at Community level, of the prohibition of discrimination based on the religion of which they belong. Maybe we're a little schizophrenic. A month and a half ago the whole of Europe rebelled against the cry of "Je suis Charlie," proclaiming to be for freedom of thought. The book "Submission" sells millions of copies to report that the West submits to the Diktat of what has changed in the meantime. I was in Istanbul in 1970 and it was a totally western city, like New York. I didn't see a veil, I didn't see a person dressed in Turkish. Whoever goes to Istanbul now finds a city totally Islamized and subjected to Sharia. In fact, the Muslim fundamentalist movements of recent years have accentuated their claim to impose, even extra territorially (see England), Sharia in the Islamic courts of that country. I present to you this problem that has not been solved at all, so much so that we have tabled an amendment that, in order to save the salvageable, recalls the necessity for our authorities, or better for those who were to manage the kafala in Italy, (which - I remember - is not an adoption but only a trust because the child remains anyway property of the community and will never become part of the family of adoption), to verify the respect of the constitutional principles of religious freedom. What the Government states in the above notes is something theoretical. In fact, if there is coactus tamen voluit, so the couple converts to have the child, then it is difficult to say that it is a forced conversion and even more difficult is to obtain the revocation of the conversion, because in this case the apostasy and the death penalty for those who were to play on the question of a false conversion takes over. I therefore ask that Parliament, which is a place where not only technicalism is being done but political at all levels, should ask whether this is the time, after what is happening in the relationship between Europe and the Muslim fundamentalist world, to transpose into our system a treaty of twenty years ago that, as time passes, not only highlights all the concerns and perplexities in the face of constitutionally guaranteed principles, but becomes a further submission of our order and principles to the Diktat who come from those Muslim countries who claim for custody the adoption of kafala. We shall therefore be tabling this amendment, which is actually only a reduction in the damage, and we call on Parliament to make a further effort to avoid it. One fact is certain, we introduce kafala into our order and this requires a conversion forced to become Muslims, then we say that we will consider what to do to avoid this danger. It doesn't seem like a very wise way to proceed. [[Applause from Senator Albertini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u21	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u22	Mr President, before entering into the substance of this draft law, I would like to express my satisfaction, contrary to the position expressed just now by Senator Giovanardi, that the Senate yesterday, and hopefully also in the coming days, has committed itself to draft laws laying down angular stones with regard to the adaptation of our national legislation to a changing society. Therefore, through the adoption of this morning's measures (starting with yesterday's one on organ trafficking) relating to international adoption and foster care, as well as those that will see us engaged in divorce next week, we are fulfilling our priority task. I am referring to giving answers to everyone and not just to those potentates and emergency situations that are not actually the best part of our country. They are a part that we must take care of, but there is also the rest that is often silent and that needs our activity so much, all the more so at a time when the world, which we like to define increasingly global, really asks us to take responsibility for a series of processes of care and integration, which in the specific case of today mainly concern the weakest part of the population and which we have to worry about protecting more. The Hague Convention was in 1961, so in part it is also obsolete, and at this time with the bill we are trying to integrate it into our legal system. It certainly makes us critical, starting with the institute of kafala. We need to examine how it can be integrated, also reflecting on the general theme of adoptions, custody, parenting and child care. We see that our society is less and less crystallized in the reality of mononuclear families with children and is increasingly opening up to an enlarged family, in which various marriages follow each other, in which brothers who have different father or mother live together and have the right to live together and to be integrated. Ours is a society that welcomes; ours is a country called to welcome, it is a country in which adoptions also international have their own history and their deep roots. Clearly, especially in the light of the issue of international adoptions, this requires a comparison. In the case of kafala it is really about the integration of two cultures and two different approaches, because on the one hand we have the European matrix with which we see parenthood and on the other we have the Islamic one. In kafala, in fact, kafil, which is the subject to whom the minor is entrusted for protection and care (which means growth, education, obtaining the success of this minor when he grows up), asks, however, never to sever the parental bond, the bond of blood, and this requires a reflection that is real: kafala imposes it on us, because today it is necessary to integrate us with a different system. This is, however, a reflection that we must also do with regard to international adoptions with other countries. The adoptive parent must be asked what kind of relationship this child that will grow must have with his or her culture of origin. It is clear that it can have effect - and I see that Senator Giovanardi has a lot of effect - that the Islamic world is primarily concerned with maintaining those cultural ties which the child is obliged to maintain with this institution. Let us remember that in the Islamic world no adoption is at all foreseen as we see it: the parental relationship is exclusively biological (and this should also please certain political parties), so, in fact, parental power cannot be transferred. Article 44 of the law on adoption governing adoption in particular cases could also be the instrument for integrating kafala into our legal system, but it is also true that the crossing of judgments today calls us to a very careful work, because, as the rapporteur said, the situation is delicate and requires, above all, a case-by-case verification. We are talking about minors, about specific situations, so we must be very careful to create a regulatory framework that allows, however, also a case-by-case assessment and respect, according to the spirit and nature of the convention itself, of the legislation and culture of the country of origin. We therefore welcome the deletion of certain rules, provided that this Senate, with the help of the Government, takes serious steps to examine them quickly within the Committees of Merit, which have worked carefully, also using the contribution of auditors and who will be able to avail themselves of all the competences, since this is a truly cross-cutting interest. They will be able to dissolve the issues highlighted and bring this matter to the House very quickly, in order to arrive at a complete definition of ratification and the acceptance of the whole Convention into our system. We also share the concern to avoid a sanction. As we have mentioned several times in this House, the law of European delegation is coming. It is true that undersecretary Gozi tells us that the number of sanctions has been reduced, but it is also true that however this number is percentually double the procedures that could be opened compared to other countries. It is therefore clear that we must speed up our work and be more careful. As our country voted for the reception, as I said, it would be particularly shameful for us to be punished for negligence in this area, but it would be just as shameful that we were not able to give certainty to families and above all to children. And here I would like to conclude by stressing another aspect which, in fact, is perhaps what should guide us, a kind of GPS in our work: in all the judgments, in all the hearings and in the debate we have held, we are talking about protecting the interests of children. It seems like a technical formula, but it is a formula that reminds us of a point of great humanity, which is the care of children. The next measure is also part of this issue and I would like us to stop to reflect on how much, beyond providing technically correct legal texts, we are really investing in the care of children and adolescents, especially in a situation of economic crisis in which the first ones to suffer are precisely the little ones, who are less protected and less visible and who certainly have less strength in making themselves understood. I would therefore ask this Senate for a commitment, while allocating more resources to the whole system of public support, because we must remember that when we talk about the court of minors we are also talking about an external system, which is that of social services, a fundamental system to apply case by case. I would like to point out to those who never distractedly did not realize that in reality the resources allocated to all social services have been cut deeply, so today children are numbers of files that pass from hand to hand. I therefore call for greater attention and investment, including on the conditions of poverty of families, which sometimes have to give their child protection to others because they lack work. I also call for greater attention to be paid to international relations with regard to guarantees on a world, that of international adoptions, which is difficult, because they live together situations of great generosity and humanity with a real trafficking of children. I believe that we cannot close our eyes on this because it is a distant reality. As the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad, we have been interested in this issue and we are lucky to have a network of Italians around the world that we must use to be more careful about these aspects too. [[Applause from Senators Bencini, Maurizio Romani and Zin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u23	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to pay tribute to the work of the rapporteurs, who have explained to us the complexity of this measure. The ratification measures are usually less complicated, perhaps even too late, but quite easily to the attention of the House, the debate and the approval. Here, however, the same rapporteurs draw from some of the annexed drafts of legislation amending proposals, on which we will return when considering the amendments. What is the problem that this ratification poses and which probably explains, as someone has said, the long time, the rethinking and the delays? The problem is that if, from the point of view of private law, institutions connected with the so-called kafala can be made more similar from the western point of view to those which we would return to custody, Islamic law, wherever and however interpreted, excludes the possibility of adoption. But these are all problems which can only be attributed to private law. In a country with a national history like ours, let me add that the Constitution also exists. There is a written constitutional right that makes it less private, less technical and less generic that wonderful formula of adaptation to the regulatory system that has happened to me so many times to use in the discussion on ratifications. Without remaining the greatest sensitivity and humanity in trying to safeguard the rights and interests of children, I feel very impressed when I hear colleagues I esteem, like Senator Mussini but also Senator Stefani, to warn us that once the priority of children's rights and interests is safeguarded, the rest is irrelevant. No. The rest is not irrelevant. I was very impressed by how my colleague Bertorotta in her excursus referred to France, a country that is not at the centre of the ethical and civil priorities of my colleague Fattorini, for a too strong laïcité of illuministic timbre, while she likes more, as she said recently in international assemblies, a secularism or a laïcité of Anglo-Saxon type. The French have said that, where there is no institution of adoption, neither do they contemplate it: that is, they have made barrage to every hypothesis of possible introduction of kafala in the ordering. We do not have to follow the amendments proposed by the rapporteurs, but the fact that they have proposed such and so many amendments to us (the expulsion from Article 3 of the kafala as a legal reference, the forecast, taken also from a bill not of the Government, but of Mr Di Biagio, a central authority of reference of the national order) probably makes it more appropriate to have a representative of the Government with prerogatives in the field of justice than foreign affairs in this House. It remains, however, as big as a house, allow me with great friendship the colleagues Stefani and Mussini, also the problem of parents, which is freedom of religion. I do not want to quote this or that article in our Constitution. Perhaps technically, if I were to become a judge of the Constitutional Court, I would have to quote Article 19. But I would say that the entire Italian Constitution contemplates and guarantees freedom of religion or, better, the non-baratability of freedom of religion. And then, in those hypotheses where there would be to demand the conversion of parents, on the level of human sensitivity I still go beyond Senators Mussini and Stefani: I understand those parents who barter their religious beliefs in the face of the relationship of a life and respect them; on the level of our order, however, we can trade our Constitution with some more children! And God knows if we need it: the crisis of international adoptions is before everyone's eyes and the data is alarming. However, I believe that this must be protected, and it would be appropriate for the rapporteurs to propose to us, in addition to the meritorious range of amendments already presented in the report, something which better protects the non-convertibility as the price of the child to be entrusted, in the interest of the measure and in the interest of taking up the road again. One final point: there has been talk of delays, whether understandable or not, of the threat of sanctions and so on. These are all subjects that leave the time they find, because or is not at stake any hypothesis of constitutional law, otherwise, in the democratic conception, international law can never imply casual injury of national sovereignty from the point of view of constitutional rights. [[Applause from Senator Albertini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u25	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u26	Mr President, we are examining the ratification of the Convention on jurisdiction in matters of parental responsibility and measures for the protection of minors, done at the Hague on 19 October 1996 (as has already been repeated several times) on which perhaps the end of the tunnel can be seen today. Since 1996, several draft laws, rules and motions have covered this important issue. Now, with the bill no. 1552 and 572, attempts are being made to improve the original proposal: the 1996 Hague Convention had also been the focus of attention in previous legislation, but the examination of the various draft legislation produced had never really been started and it seems that the latter draft is the final one. It is a particularly important Convention, because it concerns the hypothesis of a kind of international custody and foreign measures of kafala (which is the measure of protection of children placed abroad in countries of Islamic legal tradition, which is halfway between adoption and custody). Specifically, several amendments have been tabled to bill No 1552, which regulates the custody or legal assistance of the child who is not in a state of abandonment and the legal assistance of the child in a state of abandonment. With regard to the first point, which is regulated by Article 4 of the text, the inclusion of family-type communities is also required, among the reception possibilities. However, it is the amendment that proposes a new version of paragraph 2 of the same article to determine in particular the requirements for the custody of the child not in a state of abandonment, starting from a collaboration between the central authority of the country of origin and the Italian Commission for International Adoptions. For this to happen, it is necessary to identify the purpose of the Convention's application to minors from the time of birth until the age of 18. They fall within the scope of the Convention: the attribution, exercise and revocation - in whole or in part - of parental responsibility; the right of custody; the protection; the designation and duties of any person or body responsible for dealing with the child or his or her property; the placing of the child in a host family or institution, including by kafala or similar institution. And precisely in the institute of kafala for countries that inspire their own legislation to the Koranic precepts there is no relationship of sonship other than biological bond. Islamic law also prohibits adoption. In order to prevent children without parents from remaining completely unprotected Islamic law therefore provides for kafala, an institution through which the protection of orphaned children is guaranteed, abandoned or, in any case, deprived of a family environment suitable for their growth through the custody of the care of relatives. Kafala is basically a trust that lasts up to the age of majority and does not find to date express correspondences in the Italian legal order. With this improved ratification, giving the legal status to kafala, many families succeed in obtaining custody of the child. In this regard, I want to read the story of a couple of Italian parents who decided to adopt a Somali child. The judge, after hearing the testimonies, carried out the investigations and verified the real ability to care of the applicants, entrusts to the mother, as of Somali origin, the child with a sentence of kafala. As Somalia is a Muslim country, there is no adoption according to Western rules, but there is the form of child protection called kafala. These happy parents could not bring their child to Italy because they were asked to give her a name, since it had not yet been recorded. The surname is assigned to you by the judge following the dictates of the Islamic law and here perhaps there is this legislative issue that we will most likely try to address in the specific bills that will be framed in the Justice Commission. I said, however, that documents had arrived from Somalia that had been translated and legalized to send them to the Regional Agency for International Adoptions (ARAI). The agency, after evaluating them, had found some incompatibility with the law on international adoption, including the most serious: Italy does not recognize the kafala. So he said it was impossible to proceed. Italy is the only European country that has not regulated this Islamic legal institution. The situation becomes increasingly unsustainable for these parents, because they have the judgment of the Somali court that recognizes them as foster parents of the child who is only two hours away by plane from them, in a dangerous country from which every week news of attacks arrives and in Nairobi the situation is not at all quiet: even there there are attacks and foreigners are warned not to go around the city and, above all, to avoid offices like consulates or embassies. The requests for visas for children entrusted in kafala, which are forwarded to our consulates in the various countries where Islamic law is in force, are systematically refused. This is despite the fact that the Court of Cassation in joined sections, in respect of a couple of Italians who had in custody of kafala a minor alien from Morocco, has established the following principle of law: "No objection may be refused to entry into the national territory, for family reunification, requested in the interest of a minor non-EU citizen entrusted to an Italian citizen resident in Italy by a measure of kafala pronounced by the foreign court in the event that the child himself is dependent or living together in the country of origin with the Italian citizen or serious health grounds require that he be personally assisted by them." After forty days of waiting and the request for access to the documents, the act of denial was handed over on March 28, 2014 to the couple of our history. The reasons put forward are that the custody judgment of the Somali court is not in accordance with Italian public policy and that, not mentioning the expected duration of custody, suggests that it is for an indefinite period and that the duties of the trustee are not expressed. The couple immediately resorted to the TAR of Lazio against the denial: so follow other long months of waiting, doubts and hopes. The two thought about what to do in the event of a negative response from the Lazio Administrative Court and began to think about the possibility that their life would be completely changed by deciding to move to Kenya. On 22 July 2014 the judgment of the judges of the TAR was finally filed and the appeal was accepted! Among the reasons of the judgment we find that, in the past years, the Italian jurisprudence has found the compatibility of the institute of the kafala with the Italian public order.It culminates with the aforementioned judgment of 16 September 2013 n. 21108 of the United Sections of the Cassation; moreover it explains that the duration and duties of the affidator are returned to the institution itself of the kafala that does not necessarily provide for a duration and that it is preordained to the material and affective care of the minor. The refusal is therefore declared unlawful and therefore annulled. The situation of children in kafala is really a frame of the purgatory of dantesca memory. The Somali child was issued a tourist visa, refused the residence permit, could not be registered with the registry and are also denied a tax code or health card. For now she is simply a tourist in the eyes of Italian law and when the visa expires, although two Italian citizens are responsible for her, she will actually be a clandestine. We are therefore deeply convinced of the need for this ratification document to become legal and to put an end to the discriminatory process of adoption of children of Islamic tradition. By giving life and attention to the system of social protection, through the whole system of attention to the social service of assistance and protection, with greater funding to the networks of protection on custody and adoption, as well as with the commitment to the elimination of the network of trafficking of minors who arrive in our country without parents, this first step of voting of ratification must stimulate us to present and implement feasible solutions of protection and reception. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u27	I address a greeting to the students and professors of the private Institute "Ugo Foscolo" in Rome who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u28	Mr President, if there is a good service that the Italian Parliament can render today to the climate of religious war that is spreading in our Planet, it is to include in discussions such as this, which concern a secular management of the rights of people, an ideological superstructure that shifts the attention from the concrete fact, which is that of the interest of children, to a useless and harmful opposition of the ideological positions of adults. I see that today the principle of the protection of the secularity of the institutions from the inclusion in our system of an institute that has an Islamic derivation is made precisely by those same political forces that then, on other occasions, make a point of honor to defend instead the characteristics of religious derivation of norms that are part of our order. I think that's a wrong approach. I do not, of course, have any sympathy for the principle of adapting the legislation of a State to religious precepts, but I am even more convinced of the need to make the fundamental rights of the person prevail over discussions that specifically concern ideologies, ethical positionings, religious confessions. In particular, I take advantage of the words of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, approved in New York in 1989, which should be our lighthouse whenever we talk about children's rights and which reads in Article 3: In all decisions concerning children arising from private or public social assistance institutions, courts, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, the best interests of the child shall be the subject of primary consideration. Senator Compagna warned us not to think that once the interests of children are guaranteed, the rest is irrelevant. That's right, I agree, but that's not the point. The point is to establish, as the New York Convention does, that once the interests of children are protected, the rest comes later. The rest, in order to paraphrase the New York Convention, must be the subject of secondary consideration. The theme, therefore, is not our need for a few more children in a situation of demographic decline but the right of each of those children to live and grow in serenity and in a family environment adapted to their needs. We will shortly be discussing a measure on the adoption by foster families of a similar problem, i.e. the harmonisation of two regulatory principles that are likely to collide with each other. In that case, our debate will probably be simpler because it is two rules within our own legislation. In this case we have one more difficulty, because we have to relate to a rule that is not part of our order. This does not detract from the need for this effort. Politics often complains that courts and courts replace the legislator by intervening on matters that affect the rights of people, but this is and will be inevitable when the legislator decides not to intervene. 11:16 a.m. (JUDICIES follow). Thus it can be verified, as happened in our own country with regard to kafala, that the Court of Cassation issues judgments that vary according to the point of view with which they relate to the other order. Specifically, on the one hand there will be a decision that recognizes in itself the possibility of a trust in the form of kafala and on the other - I am referring to a second judgment always of our cassation - a decision that recognizes a family reunion between adults and a child entrusted in the form of kafala. Well, in these cases we come to legislation that may appear inconsistent because it is not part of an organic and defined regulatory framework. We are, however, now in the situation, as has been pointed out several times, of having to deal with an infringement procedure. It goes without saying that at a time when we are taking responsibility and are aware that we want to be and remain an active, integral, dynamic and driving part in a process of constitution of the European Union, we must consider that when we are in infringement proceedings we are not faced with another person who is sanctioning us and who forces us to do things that we do not want: we are part of this subject, the European Union, we are found in it. In this case there is a virtual subject, that is the audience of the States that have signed the Hague Convention, with which we have freely decided to stay and to whose principles and commitments we have deliberately and consciously decided to adapt. So we ourselves are putting ourselves under infringement procedure, when we are on the part of the Union, because we do not respect a principle, an action, a commitment that the European Union considers necessary in order to guarantee a fundamental right as it is, in this case, the right of children to be within a context in which parental responsibility, and everything that follows from it, is adequately protected. It is precisely for this reason that I think it is necessary to delete it today, but it will be very important for this decision to be accompanied, as provided for in the debate we have held in the Committee on Justice and in the speeches of the rapporteurs, as well as, I hope, in the awareness of the entire Senate Chamber, the commitment to resume immediately the rest of the bill already approved by the House of Deputies. It is true, in fact, that the hearings we held in the Justice Commission, together with the Foreign Affairs Committee, have shown that there are a number of concerns on the part of the parties concerned, whether institutional or associative, about the way in which we are regulating, through this legislative measure, the effective application of the Hague Convention in our legal system. It is equally true that all the comments that have been made are on the subject of regulation: none of them have been made against the transposition of the Convention or against the transposition of the Kafala Institute. We are therefore within a context that has moved in an orderly way, clearly showing the need for further deepening. Let us proceed, therefore, and do so immediately, also because we are in danger of finding ourselves tomorrow in the even more paradoxical situation of having ratified the Convention and then not having the actual instruments to make that Convention operationally feasible. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u29	The general debate is closed. I shall refer you to another session following the examination of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u30	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1209. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether she intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, Senator Puglisi's draft law No 1209, from which the examination of justice in the Commission took place, contains: Amendments to Law No 184, 4 May 1983 on the adoption of children by foster families. This is a set of rules aimed at redefining the relationship between the adoption procedure and the institution of family custody. The institution of family custody, governed by Article 4 of Law No 184 of 1983, was created to give the child as peaceful an environment as possible during a temporary situation of difficulty of the family of origin. For this specific purpose, the institution of custody is clearly distinct from that of adoption, at the legislative level. In the case of custody, the family or the person who makes himself available to receive the child is well aware of offering him a temporary home and emotional environment, as parental responsibility remains at the head of the family of origin - or in the authority that provided for his temporary removal - and the objective to be aimed is to bring the child back into his family: the child or child must return home. In the case of adoption, however, the family that welcomes the child is aware of assuming in all and for all, at the end of the period of preadoptive custody, parental responsibility in a definitive and not reversible way. In the application of the legislation in force, however, it has become clear that custody, sometimes, loses in the course of its development the character of temporary and temporary solution that the law assigns to it. The report accompanying the bill No 1209 mentions the report of the Institute of Innocents on family trusts and community placements. In accordance with the provisions of the law, the maximum period of custody is 24 months, extendable by the court of minors, where the need arises: this term is therefore the reference threshold on which to make a reasoning about the duration that should have the permanence in reception of the child. Well, it turns out that children and adolescents who have been in family care for over two years, i.e. beyond the 24-month period, make up the majority of those welcomed, i.e. about 60% of the total: 62.2% in 1999, 57.5% in 2007, and 56% in 2008. It therefore happens that, in a large number of cases, the critical situation that justified the removal from the original family is resolved negatively and the child is therefore declared adoptable. At this point it is possible - and often happens - that a child or a child, already tried by a first separation (the one from the family of origin), are subjected to a second painful fracture and transferred to a third family because those who have taken care of it with great affection and dedication (the foster family) cannot, according to current legislation, ask for its adoption. The purpose of this draft law is therefore to introduce greater clarity into the current legislation, reducing the differences in application in such complex, sensitive and problematic cases as those I have just mentioned. Paragraph 1 of Article 1 of the draft law therefore introduces into Law No 184 of 1983 the principle that, if a minor entrusted is declared adoptable, the family or the entrusted person should be considered preferentially for adoption. At the same time, this provision clarifies that custody becomes a potential premise for legitimate adoption only when, contrary to the general nature of the institution, custody has been resolved in concrete terms in a stable and lasting relationship, even on an emotional level, between the same foster family and the minor. In the same article 1, moreover, paragraph 2 tended to resolve some jurisprudential doubts arose with reference to Article 44, paragraph 1, letter a), of the aforementioned law of 1983, or to the so-called adoption in particular cases. The qualifying aspect that distinguishes the bill in its initial formulation lies, precisely, in the favor for the positive consideration of the bonds built in the reason of custody, taking care to specify that these have importance only where the relationship established has in fact determined a special relationship, right on the emotional level, between child and foster family. On this basis, I briefly take account of the changes made in the Commission's examination to the text presented by Senator Puglisi. With regard to Article 1, it was decided, for reasons of coordination with the abovementioned Law No 184 of 1983, to replace the general reference to the court, with the precise mention of the court for minors, competent to decide on the adoption. The Justice Commission has then long debated how to provide for a link between Article 4, which governs custody, and the general discipline of the adoption procedure, reaching the definitive formulation of the new paragraph 5 -a of the same Article 4, in which is now inserted the reference expressed to the provisions of Chapter II of Title II of the Law, or those on adoption. The following paragraph 5 -ter, moreover, has been modified by inserting, alongside the reference to the case in which the minor is given in adoption to other family, also the eventuality that he is declared adoptable. Finally, the last amendment to Article 1 of the draft law concerns paragraph 5 -quater, introduced in the same article 4. It is expected that the burden of listening to the child who has reached the age of twelve (it is a general provision of law) or even of lower age, if it is nevertheless capable of discernment, for the purposes of the decisions referred to in the preceding paragraphs. On the basis of the amendments made to Article 2, the Commission, following an in-depth examination, considered that it would introduce the burden, under penalty of nullity, of summoning the affidavit in civil proceedings in matters of parental responsibility, custody and adoption which have regard to the child entrusted. It should be noted that this rule confirms the link between the custody institution and the adoption procedures, but tends to maintain a fundamental balance, so as not to determine systematic apories in the procedures that concern this sensitive matter. In fact, it is not the actual presence at the hearing of the affidavitary that is required under penalty of nullity, but only its convocation as an interested party in the proceedings, which, however, cannot be granted an excessively strong and rigid position. The Commission then decided to abolish the whole of Article 3 of the original text, which regulates, in the original text of the draft law, the statute and the legal nature of the family associations which group the foster families and which carry out activities aimed at promoting the good performance of the trusts. Article 3 of the draft law in the text proposed by the Commissions was instead introduced to supplement the reference to the prolonged period of custody, the effects of which are introduced by the draft law under consideration also in Article 25 of Law No 184 of 1983, in order to complete the reference between the legislation on custody and the legislation on adoption. Finally, article 4, which closes the text proposed to the Shareholders' Meeting, is concerned with confirming the importance of the relationship gained in the context of a prolonged period of custody also for the purposes of article 44, paragraph 1, letter a), which - as already illustrated - concerns adoptions in particular cases. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u32	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us examine today a draft law which should be evaluated by us regardless of any indication that it may come to us from the political forces to which we belong, because this is a matter which I consider to be one of the sensitive ones, in which our conscience, our experience and our daily lives are called into question. Senator Puglisi presented a draft law entitled "Amendments to Law No 184 of 4 May 1983 on the adoption of minors by foster families." I have tabled an amendment to the House to amend the title of the law itself. In this respect, I must say - and I am addressing the Presidency in particular - that it is certainly not normal to start the general discussion of a legal measure in the absence of any amendments to it, given that the deadline for their submission has been set for 5 p.m. today. I am now speaking in general debate by expressing a personal position on this draft law, but at 5 p.m. amendments could be tabled - either by the Government or by other senators of other political forces - which could substantially change the rule. In this case, I have spoken emptyly, in the sense that I have made considerations which I have inferred from the current text of the draft law, but without being able to take account of the amending proposals and, therefore, of the amendments that will be made to the text. Well, the haste, and probably the need to cover a void, has made this possible, but not in a matter that concerns the lives of Italians, individuals and especially minors. No kidding around here. Care must be taken to speed up the legislative process of legislative measures of this kind. And this is the first relief that I move also to the rapporteur, Senator Filippin, to which I add that probably she has not noticed that already the title of the bill creates confusion, which is then appaled by the reading of her articulation, between two institutions completely and absolutely distinct from each other: on the one hand the adoption, on the other the custody. We intervene by modifying - it is said - the law on the adoption and the norms on the foster families of children, inserting a generic expression according to which the judge, in declaring adopted a child from a particular family, must take into account the affective relationships consequent to a provision of custody. Let us, in fact, look at the current situation. I do not know whether it appears - and I certainly do - to the draftsmen of the bill and to the rapporteur who, at this moment, in our country, some cases of custody last decades. A child is entrusted to a couple and remains in that family for decades, being allowed to the judge to extend custody. This practice has led to a substantial and incisive confusion between the institution of custody and that of adoption. But what is custody? It is that institution that allows the judge to entrust a child, who finds himself living a certain precarious and temporary family condition, to a family that takes care of him for a certain period of time, but in view of the recovery of the family of origin; so much so that affective relationships are still allowed to parents who live moments of particular discomfort. In the institution of custody, therefore, there is a prediction, a purpose, an objective from which we cannot ignore, unless we intend to distort the institution itself. The judge therefore has the obligation, the duty to understand if the parents of the child live a condition of temporary discomfort, so presumably, from there to six months, eight months or a year, they will be able to deal again with the care and education of the child, or if the situation is irreversible. In the latter case, it is therefore not clear why the institution of custody should be used and not immediately the institution of adoption. In the Commission, with regard to the expression that in the adoption the judge must take account of the emotional ties, I pointed out that the Act on Adoption No 184 of 1983 (an obsolete law, now old in view of the evolution of time, science and technology), Article 6 lays down the conditions for access to the institution of adoption by a couple. Among these I recall the difference in age between adopter and adopted who previously, with the introduction of Law No 184 of 1983, was 40 years and then, with subsequent intervention, was increased to 45 years. You expect the judge to take into account, when adopting the child, affective relationships. However, in the absence of the requirements set out in Article 6 from the parents responsible, the judge will be able to take into account as long as you want affective relationships, but you have not given him the means to concretely realize what your understanding is. You want, that is, to give priority to the emotional relationships that have been created as a result of custody, but then you create a barrier, that is, you do not have the courage to remove that barrier that is determined by the conditions set out in Article 6. You lack courage. You should have dared to say that today, with the new techniques, a woman of fifty can give birth to a child and is certainly fit to raise, educate and care for him. And then we take action on Article 6, we remove the obstacles it provides for, and perhaps it would have been useful to have your regulatory intervention to change custody. Leaving the stakes referred to in Article 6 unchanged, concerning the conditions, you have done nothing, you have changed nothing. Not so much clarity, as Senator Filippin says. How do you say that, with this bill, you've made yourself clear about the foster care institution? What clarity have you made? You are saying that custody can last over time, that is, you are consecrating in written standard what is today's practice, certainly harmful, deleterious and destructive for the growth of a child's personality. You are saying that, if you cannot adopt, you opt for a foster care and then leave it alive sine die. I have tabled amendments to the Commission to limit the time limit for custody, to impose serious consideration on the judge, i.e. to provide for a maximum duration of 24 months for custody. If you do not foresee a temporary nature even in the foster care institution, you distort it. That's the figure. I would also ask you, Senator Filippin, to pay a minimum of attention also to the regulatory technique. Given that I am not a refined jurist, but a modest legal practitioner, I have to say that I often make remarks that can be advanced by a very simple man of law and not by a scientist of law. How do you combine Article 25 of Law No 184 of 1983 with the changes you have made? It shall read as follows: The court for minors which has declared the status of adoptability, one year after custody, has heard the adopting spouses, the minor who has reached the age of twelve (...).................................................................................................................................................................................. Therefore, the reference in Article 25 is a year of custody. You, in Article 3, refer to Article 25. But how do you systematically combine this call? The explanations have been given here, but I would have liked to hear them in the Commission too, because we talked about this, we talked about the need for temporaryity. Well, even on this measure the majority proceed like a tank on the basis of party indications. This majority cannot understand that, within a parliamentary institution, especially in matters such as this, it is not useful, but necessary and necessary to compare the work of the Commission with each other. Mr President, this morning I read in the press comments by leading figures in our country on a government measure. I refer to the comments of Dr Canton, President of the Anti-Corruption Authority, through his own statement, on the goodness of the amendment on the false in the budget that must be transmitted by the Government to the Justice Commission. Well, the government, before giving us the amendment, to examine it and complete the work on the anti-corruption measure, has decided to give it to the press and, therefore, automatically to other personalities and authorities of our country. Mr President, gentlemen, this is a very serious matter, and do you know why? Because the Constitutional Court has not once, but repeatedly, recalled and reaffirmed the principle of correct and loyal collaboration between the institutions of the country. Well, it doesn't seem to me that this collaboration is there, nor can it be described as fair and fair if we consider Parliament and the Commission to be the justice of the opels, sometimes annoying, useless and insignificant, so much so as to give the amendment to the press and make it comment by Dr. Cantone or others interested in the subject, and then, in the Commission Justice, it will arrive when it arrives. When a government puts the state at the centre and not the individual, on the basis of experiences of governments of the past, we are faced with a totalitarian. Well, if I may react in such a turbulent manner to such behavior, when it comes to minors, families, adoptions and foster care, I am not only turbulent, but I become something more. You are dealing with this matter, Senator Filippin, with the most complete and absolute ignorance of both the rules of law in our country and the practices established in our courts. You are dealing with this matter in a way that is not suited to representatives of the institutions. These are behaviors that do not suit any of us, regardless of what function we have. We cannot run, as we think we are doing, on a measure like this. Mr President, by hanging up on what I said at the beginning of my speech, I do not know whether I will vote for this measure. And I cannot anticipate it because I do not know the amendments and I do not know which will be adopted. I introduced some of them. With one in particular, on which I will dwell and invite Senator Filippin and the Government to pay attention, I ask that the period of custody be limited to 24 months, so that the judge can know as a matter of priority, at least on the basis of a well-established presumption, that that child may remain in that family for a certain period of time, and is not one of those for which the decree of adoption will have to intervene, if necessary. And if he ever thinks that that child will eventually be the recipient of a decree of adoption, at least he must not entrust it to parents or couples who do not have the conditions set out in Article 6. But Senator Filippin, in her relationship, let herself be overlooked that the child can also be entrusted to a single subject. And we know that a single person in our country cannot adopt. I reserve the right, Senator Filippin, to evaluate the decisions of this Senate, also in relation to the amendments I have tabled, and, after reading those tabled by others and evaluating their respective votes, I will be able to give a more accomplished judgment. Unlike others, on this matter I wish to make judgments that have been made and not approximated. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u34	Senator Falanga, I have taken your consideration of the deadline for tabling amendments. For the sake of truth and since there is a logic as you have said, I would like to remind you that the Conference of the Leaders presented yesterday a timetable for the work of the House which provided for last night, at 7 p.m., the deadline for tabling amendments, in order to enable, in accordance with normal practice, the debate to be held with greater awareness. But as you will be able to read on page 12 of the shorthand report of yesterday's afternoon sitting, the House has been asked to set a longer time limit for tabling amendments. The Presidency, as is always apparent from the report, accepted this request, making it conditional on the fact that there were no exceptions. No comments have been made in the debate and, therefore, the deadline, as requested, has been postponed for this reason. But the proposal of the Conference of Leaders was to set a deadline for last night. This must be said for the sake of truth and for his observation not to remain without an answer. Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u35	Mr President, as the rapporteur, Senator Filippin, has said, the main difference between the institutions of adoption and custody is that, while the first is characterized by the factor of permanence, the second is in term. The custody, in fact, is a form of targeted and temporary aid, an intervention of support and protection of a minor belonging to a family in difficulty which, for a certain period of time, is unable to deal with its emotional, caring and educational needs. However, if it is not possible to prolong the foster care and the state of adoption is declared, children would live the separation from the foster family as a terrible, new abandonment. Here, then, is the importance of this rule, which will allow us to avoid inflicting on the most fragile and the smallest, the minors, a dramatic wound, if the optimal conditions for their return were not created - it would be the desirable thing, which we all hope - in their original family. The main structure of this measure is intended to improve the existing framework for the adoption of children. First of all, we acknowledge by law that the foster family that declares itself available - this is the most important novelty - must be considered preferential for adoption, if a child entrusted is declared adoptable. The norm goes primarily in the interest of the subject who, first of all, is at the center of attention, i.e. the minor (child or child who is). The measure in its entirety tries to bring the child to the centre even more, going in the direction of paying more attention to the protection of children's rights. Predicting, in fact, that the judge who decides on the adoption must take into account the significant emotional ties and the stable and lasting relationship established between the minor and the foster family, introduces an innovative principle: the relationship of emotion continued and established over time is a precious asset, which the legislator cannot fail to consider within the discipline of adoptions. So far, Title I- bis of Law No 184 of 4 May 1983 on custody of the child does not make an explicit reference, among its own rules, to the question of the possible emotional ties that are created during custody and that would be dramatically interrupted, if the decision were to close the experience of entrusting to go towards adoption. These are emotional ties that should be rebuilt ex-novo, once again, with the adoptive family. And we know very well how damaging this can result in a person who is building the foundations of his personality, and who will carry on for the rest of his life. The extended custody over time enriches the foster family and must be avoided in any way the possibility that the critical situation that justified the removal from the original family - if it has resolved negatively and, therefore, the minor is declared adoptable - risks bringing with it the disastrous consequence that a child or child, already tried by a first separation, are afflicted by a second painful interruption and transferred to a third family. It's not postal packages, it's people who need to be accompanied. By introducing the changes to the laws that we are discussing today, we say that the family that has been entrusted with a child for a long time enjoys a favor at the time of adoption, precisely because of the relationships that are created and established within the family unit. "Significant affective bonds" and "stable and lasting consolidated relationships" mean relationships that, especially in the case of minors, have an extremely important specific importance such as immaterial baggage and treasure, determining during the growth process of a boy. I want to reiterate this, because it is nice that in a law we talk about it and the feelings, the heart and the growth of a child are considered by the legislator. I believe that this is precisely the innovative nature of the rule under consideration, which we cannot fail to appreciate. These concepts bind, thus, two institutions - custody and adoption - which often tend to be confused. The legislator, introducing these new aspects into the law, decides to put at the center of the measure the emotional continuity, which is, in this way, the heart and the fundamental dimension of the norm. Affection, on the other hand, is that vital breath that guides our most intimate feelings; that affate that indicates and directs, often, our actions, as children and then as adults. And it refers precisely to the fundamental, primary, structural need of man to relate, to live in the family and in society, to the full, every relationship. The socio-affective bonds, in fact, that involve the entire process of psychological, emotional and sentimental growth of a child or a child, a boy or a girl, are not a matter of little account, but the bases on which he or she will merge his personality, his or her self, the ability to relate: in short, the indispensable substratum on which life itself is born and grows. With the forecast that has been introduced in paragraph 5-c, according to which the judge, for the purposes of the decisions on the adoption, must listen to the minor who is twelve years old or even younger if capable of discernment, we only confirm the need to protect those feelings, often hidden, that lie at the basis of the relationships between people. In the present case, we refer to the whole of the relationships between the minor and the foster family and perhaps - if it is to be desired and there will be conditions and if necessary - later adoptive, if the requirements of the law are met. With the new rules we introduce by law the concept that, if the affidator is not summoned - also this is a very important and new thing - in civil proceedings in matters of parental responsibility, custody and adoption relative to the child entrusted, is previewed the nullity of the procedure, and he also has the power to present memories in the interest of the child. This is also a major innovation in highlighting the absolute value of socio-affective relations. In this way, we try to give a solution in the application of the current legislation in which between the institution of custody and that of adoption, often, we found ourselves faced with a wall in the interpretation of the rules that did not guarantee, even after the presence of bonds came to create, the protection of the continuity of affection for the subjects involved. It is essential not to forget the absolute importance of interpersonal relationships in the building of the personality of each child, as also indicated in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, according to which the protection of the best interests of the child must ensure the protection and care necessary for his or her well-being and promote the harmonious development of his or her gifts and mental and physical potentialities. In this light, therefore, the right to defend the continuity of the emotional bonds that are formed and built on the paths of growth must be read. We could not really fail to take them into account in the law, precisely in the respect and application of the Convention itself which I have just mentioned. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u37	Mr President, I would like to pay attention to the fact that the draft law we are debating does not have the enormous value that is attributed to it. It has only the great advantage of intervening to remedy the consequences of certain inefficiencies or of some cases of non-compliance with the rules by juvenile magistrates. I say this because an intelligent juvenile magistrate, who takes into account the rules governing custody and adoption, certainly has, before giving rise to adoption, a parental responsibility and feels the affidator. It doesn't say in the law, but it's normal for those who care about minors and families. Why is this rule necessary? I would ask the rapporteur to reflect on the fact that, if we introduce equally general rules, we run the risk of not resolving the problem. The text of the measure refers to a prolonged period of custody, but it must be clarified what is meant: the law, if a judge correctly applies it, states that the custody lasts 24 months and only exceptional facts, in the interests of the child, should allow the extension. Perhaps we should start by saying that a prolonged period of care cannot be two years, because it is a period provided by the law that provides for custody so that, after the period of crisis within the family, the child returns to the family of origin. We must try, then, at least, to specify what this is about: or according to the amendment that was tabled by Senator Alberti Casellati in the Commission (and if I understood correctly from what Senator Falanga said was re-presented in the Chamber), it is expected that after twenty-four months there will be no extension, or it is expected that, if there is an extension, the extended period of custody will be longer than twenty-four months. After that, there is no mathematical certainty of obtaining adoption, because it is worth noting that in the current assessment for the entrusts the foster family does not always have the characteristics suitable also for the adoption: they are different requirements and the judge will always have to make a further evaluation. In the order we write that the judge will have to take account of emotional ties, but what correct judge would not take account of that? The purpose of this rule is, of course, to compensate for some incorrect application of the law. We all know that in some of the courts of minors (not all of them) it has sometimes occurred that this custody has lasted even three or four years and this is an abnormal situation that we therefore try to correct, but we try to do so in the belief that, having been an abnormal measure, the other rules that provide that the judge must take into account the ties with the affidator will probably not apply either. Otherwise, it would have had to take this into account in the evaluation: if the conditions for adoption were to be met between the various subjects to be examined for adoption, certainly a judge who had done his work according to the rules and according to what must be the intervention of the judge within not only the family, but within any subjective position of the persons, should have assessed this family bond that had come to be created. We therefore intervene only in order to correct, in order to give an indication to the judges not to err, and I agree with that. Mine is therefore a serious invitation to the rapporteur to ensure that the rule is consistent, and if it is true that Senator Falanga has tabled those amendments, make a reformulation if he wants to. However, let us not leave this generic expression which means nothing and which can be used in either partem or partem malam, without having a possibility of evaluation. I will not dwell on the question raised by Senator Falanga about the fact that in Article 25 of Law No 184 of 1983 the year could be referred to pre-adoptive custody, but I invite you to re-read the first paragraph of Article 25 in question so that you realize that it does not mean anything to say that it also applies to the prolonged period of custody because even though it is a prolonged period of custody, it did not have the characteristics of pre-adoptive custody. It is only a procedural question that is described in Article 25 that I honestly have some doubts as to the usefulness of the rule, not so much in terms of the affirmation of principle as in terms of why we put to the interpreter the problem of understanding what the legislator meant. Therefore, I believe that the rapporteur - whose skill and competence we know - can, through rewordings, correct these two aspects that will allow us to have a rule that, even if it is made only to deal with certain violations of other rules, at least is clear and does not give rise to further interpretative doubts that would result in a denial of its own purpose. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u38	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u39	Mr President, it seems to me that the first thing to say about this piece of legislation is that it finally arrives and arrives a lot, but very late in relation to the need that is being dealt with, to the need that is being addressed. It is a question of regulating the life of children who come from certain difficult situations and who, because of this origin, are entrusted by the public authority to families who care for their education and raise the problem of building, together with the operators who deal with these events, a better future for these young creatures. What is the starting point for this need and this need? From the fact that we build a system, a network of affections, within the foster family, that do not concern only and exclusively the parents to whom is attributed the primary responsibility for the education of these children but concerns broader relationships already within the same foster family. The foster families, in fact, can have other children and certainly have families of origin, so there are the "foster grandparents" who are involved in the main moments of this experience. There is the network of human and social relationships cultivated by the foster family in which these children are inserted, with the construction, therefore, of a complex condition of life. Until yesterday, however - we must say this - the public authority, the State was more concerned about the possibility of building, in an almost compromising way for the positive evolution of the child, a solidity of this type of social and emotional relations. So the main danger was precisely the social and emotional relationships that were built inside and in the contour of the foster family. Therefore, after all the practices to build a condition for a more stable reliance and after all the preliminary acts required for this type of experience, the same experience was then spoiled by the possibility of a violent interruption of that type of affective and social relationships when the adoption was carried out. It happened then that the foster family, instead of being the main point of reference of that path, was generally excluded from stable custody through the institution of adoption: a malice. I have never been able to understand why the State must be necessarily cruel and I have never been able to understand, nor will I ever understand why the State must continue to be cruel, for which, not only does it not pose the problem of respecting the principles contained in Part I of the constitutional dictation, both in Title I and in Title II referring to social relations, but even, in the exercise of the power to determine the condition of life of the minor, as well as of what the possible evolution of the education and life of these children, finds the way to introduce an element of cruelty and irrationality, in preventing, instead of favouring, adoption by the foster families. I believe that this measure meets these needs and that it is a positive element, even if it needs to be improved on some aspects, such as the age of foster parents who - since there is already a path - can then become adoptive parents. I personally live a situation of this kind in my family, because my daughter has a child in foster care, ten years old. My daughter, who is forty years old, and her husband, who is a few years older, grow up together with the child; at some point there is adoption and it happens that perhaps at fifteen the child is taken away because there are no requirements for adoption. Another totally irrational operation is then carried out, acting cruelly: it is not enough to stress the need, as is also said in this provision, to protect the affective and social relationships that the child established during the period of custody. More needs to be done. It is necessary to be rational and to solve the problem in practice, to help solve the problem by ensuring that action is taken on the limits that are placed on the age of adoptive parents, who are too rigid. Moreover, I cannot understand why, if we adapt everything to life expectations - think of pensions, so, thanks to the Fornero law, we can work up to a certain age - we cannot be useful in such an important institution, such as that of adoption, for which there are limits now very limited to reality, compared to how life has developed and develops in a country like ours, a Western country that, however there is the economic crisis, is still a privileged country from the point of view of the quality of life. [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that we shall be working and tabling some of the amendments which fall within this idea of helping foster families to complete their act of love even in the event and with a view to possible adoption. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and PD Groups and Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u40	I address the greeting of the Assembly of the Senate to the students and teachers of the School Institute "Vittorio Alfieri" in the section "Quintino Sella" in Asti, who are following our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u41	Mr President, the draft law we are discussing - and I would like to thank Senator Puglisi for its presentation - is a measure of great importance and a great innovative force. I say this very clearly to Senators Caliendo and Falanga: it is not a banality; it has a great innovative force, as is also recognized by the many associations and bodies that have been dealing with foster care and adoption for years. It is a text that corrects certain limitations of Law No 184, but does not confuse adoption with foster care, on the contrary, as the rapporteur said, creates a new link between one and the other, and puts at the centre an essential element - this is the great novelty that escapes - that is the right of the child to see the continuity of affection guaranteed. Article 1 is very clear in this regard at a time when it is understood that where, following a prolonged period of custody, the required requirements are met and the foster family asks to be able to adopt it, the child court, when deciding on adoption, takes into account the significant emotional ties and the stable and lasting relationship that has been established between the child and the foster family. The text then goes on to say that, where the child becomes adoptable, if the foster parents could not, for the most varied reasons, adopt, they can maintain relations with him precisely in the interests of the child. It protects, therefore, the right of the child to affective continuity, and this is the great novelty. I am sorry that we do not understand it, because it is precisely the value of emotional continuity that becomes a legal category, a source of law, and this has already been demonstrated by the July judgment of the Court of Rome, where it has been allowed to adopt a couple of women precisely on the basis of emotional continuity. This theme, which is deliberately trivialized, is instead of great novelty because we speak of emotional continuity as a generative force able to give origin to another; an emotional continuity that in the first place protects the pre-existing relationships, therefore with the family of origin and with the other reference figures. Among other things, there is an important innovation already present in our legal system: emotional continuity makes the rights of the child even stronger, being the minor legal entity, because, in order to be able to proceed with the foster care rather than the adoption, the child must be audited. Where there has been no such passage, that is, if the minor has not been heard by the judge, the civil measures in matters of power, custody and adoption will be considered null. This is also a very important element. Why do I stress that? Because there is a connection with the evil that goes through our society. I am talking about loneliness and the fact that emotional continuity and care seem to be trivial themes, when they must be of interest to politics and at the heart of our action. The affective relationship is in fact a primary need for children, together with the educational need; today too often our children do not see respected their right to affective and educational care. See that the absence of affective and educational care is the most recurrent motivation in cases of the removal of children from the family of origin. The absence of affections is scientifically demonstrated as today it is the cause of the structuring of discomforts that then become real pathologies over time. It is now established, in any scientific research or study, that the mental health of individuals is significantly determined by the experience of the first years of life. The promotion of the health of children and adolescents, as well as the training of parents, should be and should be one of the strategic choices, including from the point of view of the growth of our community. In this draft law, this positive meeting takes place: finally, science, knowledge and politics are back to speak to each other. Putting emotional continuity at the centre has exactly this value as well. Children's experts are now all agreed that a child can live in conditions of happiness only when his primary emotional needs are satisfied, including emotional stability, understood as continuity over time. Of course, this emotional stability is even more valid in situations of family breakdown and reconstruction of new households. In emotional continuity there is also another important passage, as Senator Uras said: in emotional continuity the foster family assumes the value of dignity, so far considered a subject not so fundamental. It takes on dignity precisely because it has a right of precedence over adoption. But it also assumes another role - and I stress this - in Article 3 of the text at the first signature of Senator Puglisi, where it is recognized to the foster families and to the association of the foster families an extraordinary role of support in the carrying out of the activity aimed at favoring the good performance of the entrusts. It is a question of building a network of foster families, so that they can ensure their support and collaborate with social services (as stated in Article 3), carrying out an activity of awareness and training and offering to the foster families themselves (who live particularly hard experiences) the educational and psychological support needed. Foster families are today the subjects to be protected. The revision of the rules will have to take account of this: these families must be supported and not abandoned (I am thinking of two years). It is not only a matter of rules, but also of services on the ground. They must be supported because children today are increasingly difficult to welcome; in fact, they bring with them dramas lived with great effort, to which families too often have to respond on their own. If the objective we set ourselves with this law - I shall conclude - is to defend and guarantee the child the right to emotional continuity, the first thing to be guaranteed is to avoid a failure in the foster care, as well as in the adoption. This can be done precisely by supporting families and avoiding those fractures. In the report on the draft law - as the rapporteur also pointed out in her speech - it is stated that today we have 60% of those entrusted with care who remain more years in families (sometimes four, five or more). But there is another fact that we must take into account: the vast majority of children, over 60%, are not entrusted to families, but to communities. I certainly do not want to create an automatic link, but there is one important element. If families, not only because of the economic crisis but for a thousand reasons, were adequately supported (even those entrusted with this effort), that social culture would grow and that attention aimed at ensuring that instead of placing children in institutions they would be sent to the family. In fact, however good communities can be, they are still different from the climate and the warmth of the family. There is not that project of life of who, in some way, is inserted in a path of family trust and then adoption. The other interesting aspect is the need to stress even more the need for support in the territories. I am referring therefore to social policies, to educational support for families, because the majority of children in the institution are not the small children but the adolescents, the older children, the more difficult ones, those who when they reach the eighteen years will live on their skin the drama of being really people, if not really misfits that will carry with them the fact that they have not been subjects entitled to a family care. This figure must commit the Parliament and the Government to reason on this aspect which indicates in some way a failure, a insufficiency of the law on adoption. Above all, the Regions need to explain in terms of a path - to be activated also within the State-Regions Conference - to this end, because the Regions must regulate and make due actions to guarantee the right of every child to grow in a family, and the managing bodies and therefore the municipalities, individuals and associates, must adopt the consequent acts in order to make this possible. The child's right to have a family, and I insist on the great innovation represented by the value of emotional continuity as a very clear element in our legal system, is a fundamental element. Therefore, in order not to remain alone and only norm it is necessary that around the reception of the child and the foster family, but also of the adoptive ones, there is a social, cultural and educational network capable of helping these families not only not to fail their mission, but also to constitute good examples, because good practices are in themselves capable of motivating so many other families that perhaps would like to do so but that instead of measuring themselves with support they are measured by failures that are sometimes told because they represent reality. I really thank the authors of the bill and the Commission and I really urge you not to argue about children and not to use this beautiful page of politics and parliamentary choice to make political controversy and trivialize. This argument is not trivialized because it is really an element of great innovation. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u42	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u43	Mr President, this debate confirms that when it comes to the world of need, discomfort, pain, difficult family situations, it is really difficult to find a legislative measure to deal with those involved. We are talking about situations that - alas, in negative - lead to children entrusted to third persons; children who - I remember it once again - cannot be adopted because in Italy there is still confusion on the subject of adoptions: every day there is shouting at the scandal because children must remain in institutions because of the many limits placed to adoptions, but in reality, as is known, there are no children to adopt, neither in Italy, nor in the world, and instead there are so many children in a situation of difficulty for which it is necessary to provide with the institution of care, which is not and cannot be adoption. The first aspect that I am pleased to note is that in the work of the Commission - and I hope the House - the fundamental principle has not been broken that it is subject to two institutions which have absolutely different aims and which must remain so: the adopted person becomes the child of a particular couple; the caregiver is a child who can enjoy the generosity of a couple and that - in the hope that the problems and difficulties that parents may have encountered for a number of reasons - he should then be able to return to the family of origin. It would therefore be necessary to make a very long speech on social services, on their role in the territory, on the Court for minors, which has acted and continues to act with a fascist logic, in the sense that there is no contradiction even in the face of traumatic decisions in which there is no involvement of those who see themselves being taken away from children. We're talking about thousands of cases. I am still in shock because on December 3rd last year, as you know, it ended with a full absolution the story of two parents in Modena to whom they took the children away in 1998 and who were acquitted in 2015; unfortunately in the meantime one of them died of a heart attack, the four children have not seen them anymore, while the fifth, who is ten years old, has been in France with his mother, who in the meantime had another child and could not take him to Italy because he would have been taken away from her. Clearly, it is a world full of pain and contradictions. It is appropriate to reflect on the role of social services, on when, for the sake of the child, it is right that the same should be taken away from the family and when it is possible to exaggerate from this point of view. I know that in the courts for minors and social services there is a current of thought - and I have seen interviews that confirm this - so that if parents are guilty or innocent or in any case in a situation of difficulty they do not care at all because we have to think only of the child. It seems to me an absolutely extremist position, because the child has a father, a mother, a family, and in the context of these difficult balances you have to take into account all these factors, including the right of the natural family in difficulty not to be taken away from the child or, once overcome the difficulties, not to be opposed the reasoning why he can no longer see the child because for years he has been entrusted to another couple, and therefore, despite having done nothing wrong, he cannot have the child back. It is a paradox but it is so: if in Italy a child is kidnapped and after a few years is found, he is given back to the family; if instead a child is taken away from social services and after years and years the family to which he has been taken is innocent compared to accusations or overcomes his difficulties, the child is no longer given back, according to the principle that has now been entrusted to another family, so it would be a trauma to return with the father and mother of origin. I come to the conclusion by quoting an issue that I care about as a person who loves Parliament. I think it is time to stop saying that Parliament is always behind, that Parliament does not understand and does not adapt, that it is the magistrates who set the rules (this morning it also heard the quote of the two women entrusted). That's not true. Parliament operates, in depth, it makes the laws: the one on adoptions we approved ten years ago with my colleague Serafini and it was a law that came out of a parliamentary confrontation with all family associations. Even the reform that we are now going through comes from a comparison, which certainly ends through the confirmation of the two fundamental institutions (I entrust on the one hand and adoption on the other) and wants to resolve some situations of embarrassing difficulties; for example, when a child can be adopted and there is already a foster couple that has the conditions to adopt it, the law actually emphasizes that it is better to be with the latter than to have another trauma. The text therefore operates within the perfection of a system which, however, remains unchanged in its fundamental aspects. It is Parliament's choice, then if civil society or some magistrate thinks otherwise and tries to undermine institutions of adoption or foster care as they have been designated, it is democratically acceptable. However, it cannot be assumed that Parliament is merely out of step and that all colleagues, senators and Members, who are struggling with these matters, when they fire this bill, they will not have understood what they are doing or, by definition, are always lagging behind when it is not known what they are doing. Finally, even when addressing colleagues from Forza Italia who have spoken, whether this mini-reform will work or not, it is very difficult to say this, because unfortunately to lower the rules of law in the thousands of cases, one different from the other, with which we are confronted is very difficult, because the case always comes limit in which is emphasized the right of the family of origin that would be conculcated or the one in which instead the right of the confidors is conculcated, regarding which public opinion believes that in that case it is not understood why the law cannot allow it. It's always the drama of lawmaking in general situations. There are also other aspects that I have taken into account in the speeches made, such as the raising of the age limit for adopters, mentioned by my colleague. In fact, in a world in which you retire later and average life increases, it seems feasible to consider an update of the age up to which people can adopt. Moreover, medical science today allows women to have children at an age that is at the limit, if not beyond the maximum age to adopt, then improvements can be made in this regard. We will see the amendments tabled and the improvements that may result, but it seems to me that Parliament is doing a good job on this subject, certainly seeking a balance (in one of the most difficult areas in which to find it) in the interests of children, foster couples and even parents of the family of origin. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u44	Mr President, parental incapacity, economic hardship, psychic pathologies, conflict situations, etc., are the voices that have the greatest impact on foster practices. According to the latest report on the subject, more than 28,000 children and children up to the age of seventeen were welcomed by foster families and residential communities because they were outside their families of origin. The regions most affected by the practices of the foster care are at the extremes of the Boots, in spite of the stereotype of the well-off North and the unfortunate South. In fact, Liguria and Sicily are the regions where the rate of children and adolescents outside the family of origin is highest, i.e. more than 3.5 per 1,000 inhabitants. Most of them are children aged 11 to 14. Small and very small, therefore, are almost an exception compared to other age groups and if anyone thinks that we are dealing with a phenomenon linked to immigration, he makes a big mistake. Only 17 children in 100 are foreigners and exposure to risk of poverty affects everyone, or rather, it is affecting everyone, without distinction. The different realities of the foster care reveal the photograph of a state lacking in many respects, too many, starting from adequate support for parenthood. Stories of long journeys, suspended time and a bureaucracy that struggles to keep up with emotional needs. Stories of family breakdown due to the absence of one or both parents because they died, unknown or simply unaware of their role, and still, many stories of arms passages in arms and I cannot help but dwell on this point: the same arms that often create emotional scars and ambivalent feelings. The purpose of this bill is to guarantee a preferential path for the foster families of a minor declared adoptable. The court of minors, therefore, in deciding on adoption, will have to take into account the significant emotional ties and the stable and lasting relationship established between the minor and the foster family; bonds that arise from a measure thought as temporary and that, in the reality of the facts, has assumed a character of semi-permanentity: it suffices to think that almost 60% of the children in custody has been for more than two years. The right to continuity of affections, however, should be guaranteed in advance, through a concrete support of families in difficulty, avoiding the removal of minors. Yes, because having a rented house - or property for the luckiest - that is heated if it is cold and equipped with the main services, durable goods and accessories is for many a utopia. People who no longer know where to bang their heads because even the minimum is a luxury and with 800 euros you have to live in four or five family members. It is clear that the financial crisis cannot spill its devastating effect on children. It is for this reason that a continuous activity of protection of the child is indispensable, starting from listening practices because - to put it in the words of the UN Convention on the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence - the child capable of discernment has the right to freely express his opinion on any matter that interests him. Support projects, therefore, should be implemented at the origin, in advance, through concrete aid to families on the abyss of poverty and social distress. A reconstruction of the family tissues is necessary, giving the individual nuclei the sacred right to be able to raise their children, stopping the insane mechanism of suffering that is established because of the need. We of the 5 Star Movement are trying to achieve this goal with the income of citizenship, a measure that would give dignity to many people, in open contrast to the practices of marginalization and social exclusion that this Renzi Government is implementing by means of impositive decrees, comprehending what remains of a state shredded by the whims of a son of Dad who, as such, fails or does not want to understand the needs and needs of most Italians today. We have a duty to give an alternative to those who have asked for it, to those who are prey to the tentacles of the continuous state of emergency that afflicts our country and that, inevitably, hits the weakest, and falls on the smallest. Ensuring a future for children means ensuring that society in the future is sound and credible because the human root of progress is first and foremost rooted in the protection and education of the protagonists of tomorrow. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u45	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, a text finally arrives in this House which, if it does not put us on equal footing with what is happening in the rest of Europe, makes us take a good step forward. Senator Uras, who spoke before me, did well to say that, in any case, this text has exposed us over time to many unpositive situations and so it is good for Parliament to address this issue quickly. I would therefore like to thank Senator Puglisi, the first signatory of the measure, and all my colleagues (of whom I too am a member) for realizing that there is a real urgency in the life of families, in the lives of children and in the face of those emotional deficiencies that my colleague Mattesini spoke of in a perfect way. The lack of affection for children, especially in the early years of life, is the main cause of situations of discomfort, disadaptiveness and stress. It is quick to define an unstable adult, unbalanced, not focused on his priorities, without realizing how much he may have experienced as a child. The foster families deserve, in my opinion, a praise: not superior, not special, but still different from that of many families who make themselves available for adoptions. Think about it: at a time when a family is running to give affection, at a time when it proposes to welcome, love and affection for a child, however, it also has the cognition and awareness of the fact that that love that gives unconditionally, from the first moment the child enters the house, could suddenly fail because the child could be taken away from him. This can happen - and it is right that it happens, in some cases - when the temporary nature of the foster care remains, because the tendency is always to bring the child back into the family of origin, where this is existing and deserving. Attention, my dear colleague Giovanardi: on this, as usual, I do not agree with you (perhaps there is a karma in our joint presence in the Justice Commission): the minor is not property of the father and mother and does not have to return to those biological parents in that family, even in case of acquittal or the examples you have made. It is good for the State to recognise the priority of the affection and protection of the child, which is not private property of the parents. GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). But neither of the state nor of social services. CIRINNA' (PD). Senator Giovanardi, I did not interrupt her, but, as always, I listened with great patience; education, however, is another thing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator, continue. CIRINNA' (PD). But you're the President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I just made a call, actually. CIRINNA' (PD). If support institutions or institutions such as foster care and adoption have been introduced, the particularity and legal individuality of the child is clearly recognised, which should be protected by the State when certain situations occur. It is therefore good - indeed, very good - that emotional continuity is considered as a fundamental and fundamental element so that the trust then eventually can become something else. Well said Senator Uras: we have to overcome all those bureaucracy situations, let's call it that, or excessive regulatory requirements that often harness the affective and protective capacity that some families give to the child. You have reminded many people of the question of age: there are now freezing of the egg and heterologous fertilization (and it is not that when you submit to this practice age is asked: we have shining examples, not only in our country, but also in Europe). I am referring then to another provocation done previously by Senator Falanga (and I am sorry to speak in front of the totally empty benches of Forza Italia, to which the colleague belongs). In the meantime, Senator, I have not seen any of your notations in the Justice Commission, nor any intervention or submission of an amendment to the amendment of Article 6 of Law No 184 (and you know that I am dealing with this particularly in the context of the civil unions measure that we will soon have in this House). We are ready to blow the limits of Article 6, but we know where it leads, that is, towards a direction that I like so much: a situation in which it is possible to adopt as single or outside what you continue to call traditional family, composed of heterosexual women and men. For me, however, the family is any legal formation in which there is love. We are therefore ready to question Article 6, but I want to see which of you will follow us and whether Mr Falanga will present an article to that effect. Remember that the court of minors in Rome, in July, granted two women the adoption of a child, precisely claiming that the emotional continuity is fundamental and genetically capable of procreating and creating that bond on parental responsibility. However, if this was not recognized or the ability to raise a child alone - as in the case of the last adoption made in Cagliari of a child entrusted - then the ability of a widowed mother, divorced or separated to raise her children would be questioned. Perhaps it is true, then, that we must have the courage to put our hand in Article 6: if that were the case, however, I would not even want to hear more about situations that invoke natural right or even creationism (also this has been talked about)! Someone even mentioned the medieval canonist Modest in our hearings in the Justice Commission. Let us put our feet on the ground and understand that the Italian Parliament adapts many times to what civil society, which is far ahead of us, here outside does and recognizes this new possibility for the foster families to become adoptive families. Mr Uras did well to talk about his daughter's child; I could tell you about the wonderful experience my parents had in adopting as trusted a 16-year-old, very difficult age, as my colleague Mattesini said. One thing is to take into custody a newborn or a four or five-year-old, one account is a young man of sixteen or seventeen years, a boy who has already had so many experiences of pain and who, many times, is difficult to introduce into a situation of stability. I conclude by saying that this is an important text and we have worked on this in the Justice Commission. Surely it is an initial step towards debarking, which already exists in our society, compared to the traditional family founded on marriage between a man and a woman that is no longer the only one, with respect for all those that exist, of which I too am a representative. Society shows us to be different: there are enlarged families, rainbow families, single parent families, adoptive families, foster families. All families deserve the same protection. Protecting one type of family does not mean impoverishing another. All loves are worthy of the same dignity. As I have to say all the time about the text of civil unions, which I hope will soon arrive in this House, equality is equality. All that is not equality is discrimination. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u47	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u48	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u49	We greet the Scout group "Fidenza 2" of the AGESCI of Fidenza, in the province of Parma, who followed the Senate's work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u52	FAVERO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech deals with broadband. In the last Council of Ministers of 3 March 2015 there was the approval of the Italian strategy for ultra-wide band and digital growth 2014-2020 that aims to fill that digital delay of the country on the infrastructure and services front. Italy, unfortunately, is the country with the least coverage of new generation digital networks in Europe, below the European average of over 40 percentage points. This clearly creates a number of problems. It was therefore necessary to recover the gap in order to achieve the strategic objective of maximising coverage by 2020 from an infrastructure point of view, achieving at least the objectives defined for the second pillar of the Digital Agenda for Europe. The public resources involved in the new national ultra-wideband plan would total EUR 6 billion, from European funds and the Development and Cohesion Fund, to which the related funds of the Juncker Plan are added. The president of Confindustria digitale Elio Catania affirms that the plan puts at the center of the policy of growth the digital transformation of the Country, but there are gaps because the traditional infrastructures, that are very important (motorways and railways) need strong investments, but much more they need those of broadband, that are the telematic highways and the digital. We find ourselves then having great inequalities, because in northern Italy - big cities apart - there is a delay no longer tolerable. We have also seen, in fact, that it has been denounced that in Piedmont, despite a strong financing and the commitment of the Region, the superfast Internet highway is unused or inactive for 80% and this situation is traced in many Italian Regions. The problem is therefore twofold: on the one hand, the high cost of connecting businesses and households, which increases and is often unsustainable in the decentralised territories, and on the other hand, the lack of competitiveness between operators on the periphery. To this is added a cultural gap, which should be filled, for the diffusion of the use of technologies also among the elderly and also for the services to the citizen (I also think about health and home automation), in analogy with what happens in other European countries. It is about spreading the awareness that we are behind Europe. I would therefore like to say that I will put a question to the Minister responsible to understand the situation in Italy at the moment, precisely because there is no inequality in this area. [[Applause from Senator Angioni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u53	Senator Blundo had announced to the Presidency that she wanted to speak to ask the written answer to question 4-01854 on attention deficit and hyperactivity syndrome, but I do not see it in the Chamber: obviously the phenomenon had been attenuated at the moment. However, we take note of the solicitation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-404.ana.u54	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 10.01 p.m.
