ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 5 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u3	The next item is questions to be answered immediately (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on issues relating to waste management and climate change and energy efficiency, to which the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Mr Galletti, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us turn to questions on issues relating to waste management. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u6	Mr Caleo (PD). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching the COP21 Conference on Climate Change in Paris, during which the new global emission reduction commitments will have to be decided in order to try to limit the increase in temperature on the planet. Climate change poses unprecedented threats to the biosphere, health, living conditions and economic development of the Earth, also constituting a motive for the exponential growth of migratory flows, helping to fuel tensions or conflicts. The European Union has committed itself to achieving ambitious targets over the next few decades, from the so-called 2020 package to the road map 2050, which provides for an 80-95 percent reduction in emissions in 2050 compared to those in 1990, moving towards the mid-term phase of 2030, for a more competitive, safe and low-coal Europe. In order for these objectives to be shared by all countries, Europe will have to play a key role. Just today, the European Parliament adopted a very ambitious motion calling for the relaunch of EU climate policies through a clear commitment to obtain binding agreements in Paris, with five-year verification periods to avoid modest results, a timetable for financing and action on transport, one of the highest-emission sectors. I ask you, therefore, what initiatives our Government is putting in place to play a leading role in Paris, to promote the approval of a binding global agreement for emission reduction, with determined, expired and verifiable targets and national mitigation and adaptation plans. In the face of today's war report, with victims and considerable damage to the umpteenth water bombs, I would also ask you if you do not think it necessary to prepare the National Plan for adaptation to climate change long before the deadline, set for December 31, 2016. Our territory is already in emergency. We can't wait another year.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u9	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, the increase in energy efficiency is one of the priority actions in the fight against climate change, for improving energy security, for achieving the important energy and environmental objectives of the Energy Union and for the overall reduction of energy costs in the European Union. In order to achieve these objectives, Parliament and the Government have, over the last decade, activated progressive measures to promote the efficiency of systems and installations in order to promote, for example, the energy efficiency of buildings, given that energy consumption in buildings accounts for 40% of total consumption and 36% of total emissions of C02 in the European Union or, again, through support for the dissemination of technologies in the energy management of buildings, with attention to the expected investment-benefit cost ratio. It also seems absolutely necessary to promote the energy efficiency of products and, therefore, we need a design and distribution of environmentally friendly and efficient products, such as lighting, household appliances, engines and so on; any device, in essence, that consumes energy, both in the public and private sectors. A framework for the promotion and development of high-efficiency cogeneration of heat and energy, based on useful heat demand and primary energy savings, should also be supported. At the same time, an appropriate system of support for the dissemination of renewable energy sources needs to be encouraged. I would therefore ask the Minister what the state of the art is with regard to the briefly mentioned issues and, in particular, the state of implementation and effectiveness of the different measures taken in recent years in the direction of support for energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u12	MORONESE (M5S). Minister, the Court of Justice of the European Union, on 2 December 2014, condemned Italy, for failing to adapt unfair landfills to European legislation, for paying a fine of EUR 40 million, a flat-rate amount already paid in February 2015, and for paying a penalty of EUR 42.8 million for each semester until the judgment was fully implemented; this amount could be reduced by EUR 400,000 for each landfill for reclaimed hazardous waste and EUR 200,000 for each other reclaimed landfill. The European Commission, on 18 August 2015, requested by the 5 Star Movement, provided the list of illegal landfills (data updated in July), which shows that 185 landfills still do not comply with European directives. In six months, therefore, only 13 of the 198 landfills were cleared, which is why the amount of the semi-annual fine is EUR 39.800,000. I would add that, from the data in possession, it would appear that the Sicilian Region has drawn up documents in which it declares that it has cleared 6 of the 12 illegal Sicilian landfills, while 4 of those 6 are still on the list. Replying to Question 5/6398 of the 5 Star Movement in the Chamber of Deputies on 15 September, the representative of the Ministry of the Environment said that it is common interest to clean up all landfills that were condemned as soon as possible. In this regard, by the 15th of each month, the Regions shall submit a monthly report on the progress made in reclamation operations. I would ask you, Minister, how do you intend to comply with the stated commitment and, in other words, to achieve, as soon as possible, the fulfilment of the obligations of non-fulfilling bodies? Is there a timetable for 185 landfills to be cleared and on what criteria is it based? With reference to the monthly reports that the Regions have to make, you will make them public and available on the website of the Ministry, how is it right that it is? Last but not least: how many other six-monthly instalments will Italy be forced to pay? Are there situations similar to the Sicilian case? How is such discrasia possible?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u15	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, before I put my questions to the Minister, I would like to understand which of the two issues we are dealing with, because I have seen some confusion between my previous colleagues. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are dealing with the issue of waste management. DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, in the session of the Commission territory, environment, environmental goods on October 8th, I asked the Government about the serious problems that the current situation is bringing to light with regard to the management of waste electrical and electronic equipment (so-called WEEE). In particular, there have been malfunctions in relation to the control mechanisms on collection centres in relation to waste management, intermediation and trade activities, including the detection of possible violations, which - as I recall - is entrusted to the Provinces. These dysfunctions have made it difficult to identify those figures to whom to entrust the responsibility of the principals and their proper managements. This means that the reference framework, although valid under the conditions, is now easily eluded in practice. It is precisely in the awareness of this circumvention that I have welcomed the reply given to me in the 13th Commission on the willingness of the Ministry to review the current arrangements for the supply of such waste. And this is not because there are no legislative instruments that can guarantee an adequate monitoring and control system on the centres, but because, in fact, there is probably no desire for these instruments to become operational, leaving uncovered the responsibilities and shortcomings behind the degenerations denounced. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, what action you intend to take and how and when you intend to take, in order to prevent these incorrect malfunctions from continuing in the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u18	MOLINARI (Mixed). Minister, in Calabria we are experiencing an emergency situation of waste - which has been denounced with several questions which we have not yet received an answer - during which more than two billion euros have been wasted without having solved the problem at all, so much so that the spill into landfills continues with serious prejudice - as you will understand - to the health of the people and the health of the territory. Moreover, because of this our nation continues to be subject to the sanctions of the European Community. Currently in the landfill of Celico (in the Province of Cosenza), which also operates in violation of the law, and in other private landfills throughout the Region, pursuant to Contingible and urgent orders that are illegitimately repeated, waste such as, in violation of all Italian and Community legislation. And this always happens on the basis of a fantastic emergency that has lasted for more than ten years - Minister, you will understand, like me, that this is a rather strange emergency - which has never been remedied and in which the disturbing shadow of the 'ndrangheta often stands out. As you will understand, the landfill of Celico, which is at the foot of the Sila Natural Park, must be closed. I'd like to know what the government is going to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u21	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Minister, the management of urban and industrial waste is closely linked to health protection. In this context, special attention should be paid to the management and placement of legal warehouses for vehicles, scrap and tyres which have been worn out and which have been damaged by time in high population density residential areas (in particular collective structures such as schools and offices). In particular, Minister, I refer to the question put to your attention on 8 September 2015. On August 31, 2015, Casacelle, hamlet of Giugliano in Campania, developed a fire in a judicial warehouse with more than 300 vehicles, tamed after several hours. The fire caused a toxic cloud, spreading even several kilometers away, causing justified environmental and health alarm, with presumed dispersion of fine dusts (PM10), fraternal aromatic hydrocarbons, nitrogen dioxide and sulphur, dioxins and similar dioxin PCBs. The event is part of a territory already dramatically torn and violated by illegal waste fires. Judicial deposits are in fact collection centres for vehicles, often neglected or poorly monitored, which should remain there for a strictly limited period of time. In fact, instead, the vehicles and the products generated by them remain much longer in these deposits and subjected to weather, with aerial diffusion and in the soil. Being highly polluting materials, the environmental and health alarm is entirely justified. Mr Minister, I would therefore ask you, with regard to what you have said, how you intend to intervene as a matter of urgency or what you have already done with regard to the smooth existence of procedures for the removal and disposal of vehicles, the existence of environmental requirements and compliance with safety standards and control operations (if they have been carried out in this regard). I would also like to ask you whether you intend to carry out a check on the relevant collection centres on the proper observance of the rules - if deemed appropriate - for environmental safety.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u24	Compagnon (AL-A). Minister, there are frequent reports that highlight the serious problems in the various regions of Italy on the subject of waste management. Recent research by ISPRA reveals a leopard-spotted situation, with an unequivocal inability of some regions of Italy to begin that virtuous path of waste collection; see what happens in Sicily, as well as in Liguria. In view of the regional waste plans, which provide for the creation of an adequate plant for the closure of the recycling cycle, there are various blockages, delays and difficulties in the construction of the plants, or even more paradoxically, in the activation of these, although they have been carried out, revealing the doubt of the existence of a strategy aimed at facilitating the continuation of the disposal in landfill, instead of the achievement of virtuous objectives of separate collection. While learning with satisfaction the news of the distrust that the Government has made, preparatoryly to the commission sent to the Sicilian Region, we also come to know of statements issued by the President of the Sicilian Region on the intention of the realization, by the Government, of thermo-toolizers in Sicily. Considering that the territory has always expressed doubts about this option and that this would contrast, among other things, in a clear way, with the activation of a complete and sustainable cycle of waste, that pushes to the maximum instead the separate collection, I ask you to clarify if it corresponds to the truth that the Government intends to promote in Sicily the realization of thermo-valuers and to clearly show what is the overall strategy for waste, both in Italy and Sicily. I would also like to ask you what actions you intend to take in order to proceed quickly to the activation of the plant (see, for example, the composting plants and others) aimed at the realization of that circular economy that we are talking about so much, which sees in recycling and reuse, and not already in the heating or landfill, a modern and sustainable strategy of reference.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u27	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Minister, the call for the management of SISTRI, published by CONSIP, expired last August 5. The same CONSIP has evidenced that the award of the concession to the new subject will happen within 31 December of the current year, but that the new system will need a period of run-in for the purpose of the implementation from the enterprises. However, Minister, to date, businesses, the obliged parties, have specific commitments and tasks in order to join the old SISTRI system, and this despite the fact that the Ministry you have led is under way the modification of waste traceability systems. In particular, the parties obliged to join, in order to avoid heavy sanctions, have already paid the registration to the old system by 30 April of the current year and moreover, from 1 January of next year, will also be subjected to a whole series of possible sanctions provided for by the complex of the SISTRI system. To sum up: companies are currently paying and are subject to sanctions for joining an obsolete system that the Ministry itself, after years of complaints and complaints from the business world, considers not working and to which it is making radical changes, precisely with a new ban. I would therefore ask you, Minister, whether you consider it appropriate to adopt a rule that totally suspends the sanctions relating to the current SISTRI, delaying the entry into force of the same sanctions until the date on which the new waste traceability system will finally enter into operation, which will have to be completely redesigned. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Mr Galletti, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u28	Mr President, on a matter of time, given that the questions are many and very complex, if you agree, I will reply briefly to each of those questions which have been asked to me. I will, however, leave to the documents a document which contains the detailed answer to all the questions asked, and I will do so only for reasons of time because, since it consists of almost 40 pages, it would not be enough for the time we have available to read everything. Meanwhile, I want to thank you for the opportunity you have given me, through your questions, to take stock of the situation on the major issues that concern my Ministry. There is a word that unites all the questions you have asked me; a word that is very fashionable today, but that is not a slogan, and it is necessary that our country, Europe and - I say more - all the countries of the world are able to decline into active policies. This word is circular economy. You called her back in your speeches; you spoke of circular economy. I think we have to start with this. We are already giving concrete signals, because in the environmental connection, which you will be examining in this House as of next week, there are already elements that lead us to that type of economy. When we have finally established it - I repeat in our country, but more globally also in others - that type of economy will allow us to solve most of the problems of the use of materials and the production of waste that we have today. The 21st century is the year in which we realized that it is also appropriate for companies to implement a production that consumes less resources and, therefore, efficiently uses the first resources, that we have discovered to be not endless - therefore their cost tends to increase - and that it produces less waste. This is not only because it is good for the environment, but because waste has become a social, environmental and economic problem, since today it costs to dispose of waste to companies. The shift from the linear economy to the circular economy is, therefore, the key to environmental policies in the coming years. And here I hang up on the topic that was raised at COP21 in Paris. I believe that we should strongly emphasise the concept of a circular economy and also bring about the good practices we have already experienced in our country and at European level. One figure on all, and then I don't quote the others: the cost of non-action. We in Paris are going to seek an agreement between 193 countries to maintain the overheating of the Planet within two degrees, which means going towards the decarbonisation of our businesses, but also of our cities and the way we move from one place to another. This is the challenge ahead of us. Non-action on these issues can cost the community, the world 500 billion dollars more than the non-action of recent years. This means that every dollar we don't spend today will cost us four dollars from 2020. It is not only an environmental problem - in addition to all the environmental problems that non-action costs - because I remind you that here we are talking about possible migrations from one place to another of the Planet, according to scientific data, of more than 250 million people. It means that there are areas of the Planet that go towards desertification, glaciers that melt (with obvious problems also of increase of the level of the seas, harmful especially for the small islands): all this will result in a migration of 250 million people from one place to another, with everything that follows in terms of poverty, illegality, wars and famines. This is the great challenge facing us. What are we taking to Paris? We carry a virtuous, ambitious and legally binding agreement, which Italy completed, under its European semester, on 23 October 2014, which commits all 28 European countries to reduce CO2 emissions within their own countries by at least 40%. I repeat: that agreement is legally binding with burden sharing. This means that each country will have its own national target and, if it does not comply with it by 2030, will be subject to European infringement procedures and sanctions. We bring that agreement, aware that it has already been an example to other nations more reluctant to intervene on environmental problems and that today arrive at the Paris Conference, instead, with the will to find an agreement; I refer, in particular, to the countries that are among the major CO2 emitters, namely China and the United States of America, which had not signed the Kyoto Agreement, the only protocol in the field of the environment, but are very active in the preparation of the Paris Agreement. This is a good start, but we must not lower our guard because the Paris Climate Conference is certainly the last call we have in order to be able to act on these issues. Finally, I would particularly like to point out that the problem we are facing in Paris cannot be reduced to a mere problem of numbers, how much we reduce our CO2 emissions and how much resources we are able to mobilise. What we are going to face at that Conference is an ethical-moral theme and this must be the approach with which all the countries of the world will go to that appointment, because in that forum - even if the tones seem too apocalyptic, but in this case they are fit - we play the future of the Planet. So we have to go with the knowledge that we have to come to an agreement and we have to do it - on the one hand - for our children, but - on the other - for us too. This is not only a problem for future generations, but it is above all an ethical-moral problem that we must address ourselves and that we must address as our own and resolve to give a better future to all, because climate change will add poverty to poverty, illegality to lawlessness, injustice to injustices and wars to wars. This is the issue we are facing, and this is the approach that we must adopt at the Paris Conference. As far as specific questions are concerned, the first point is waste management and I believe that, in our country, there is today a clear problem for everyone, that is, a non-self-sufficiency of the regions in waste management. Let me just remind you: in our country, 40% of waste is still landfilled and this is unacceptable for a civil country, both from the environmental and the health of citizens. I don't tolerate this. There are good separate collection tips in certain areas of the country, but also unworthy percentages in other areas of the country. If the rules work in certain municipalities - a leopard stain, because there are points of excellence in the South as there are in the North - this means that the rules are there and can give good results. There is an inefficiency on the part of some municipalities and some regions that I no longer intend to tolerate. I say this clearly: I am not a lover of waste-to-energy, but I strongly hate the landfill. So, either the Regions will prove to me, with acts already formalized and that can be put into practice immediately, that they do not need the thermovaluerization, or I will go ahead with the faculty that grants me article 35 of the decree-law unlocks Italy, focusing on the thermovaluers. I do not accept an Italy that still sends 40% of the waste to landfill, with tips, in some regions, that exceed 80 and 90%, also because, if I tolerate this, I also tolerate the possible infringement procedures that will come from this management. I am talking about possible infringement procedures, but some of them - as has already been mentioned - are already in progress: two are the most serious cases, which concern Campania and illegal landfills; two others could give us problems from here shortly and concern waste management in Campania and waste management in Lazio. I give you only one global figure: in this year of government we have closed 11 environmental infringements. It is still open to 18, of which 13 are the responsibility of the regions, and most of it concerns the issue of waste. I can't tolerate this anymore. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency shall authorise you to deposit the written reply. They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u31	Mr Caleo (PD). Mr President, I am pleased with the Minister's reply, but I am even more pleased with the words that UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon addressed to the Italian Government this morning regarding his commitment to the issue of gaseous emissions and climate change. This makes us even more responsible. We have a chance to make a positive impact. We want a united Europe not only in monetary terms, but also on this issue. In fact, if we were to pass the two degrees of temperature in 2050, there would be huge problems for our country. The latest news from the South of our country requires serious reflection and funding to make available to the people for the security of the territories.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u34	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I can only express a partial observation of the Minister's reply. I can understand that the lack of time available to the Minister was certainly not adequate to answer some of the questions I asked. I hope, therefore, to find the answers within the documentation which the Minister has deposited with the documents. I just want to point out that it is essential, in the context of actions relating to energy efficiency and, therefore, also with a view to the implementation of the commitments we are going to make in Paris, to review and coordinate the many incentives put in place to support the efficiency of renewable energy sources in such a way that efficiency is guaranteed. I hope to find the answers in the document - thank you for your kind participation - and I reserve the right to make a judgment once I have read it in full.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u37	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I am unfortunately not satisfied with the answer, but I reserve the right to read carefully the document which the Minister leaves to the record. I am also dissatisfied with how this Government, but also the previous ones, addresses the problem of waste and landfills. Already in the law of stability of 2013 the 5 Star Movement had made very feasible proposals to avoid the fine of the European Court of 2 December 2014, which, of course, were rejected. Among other things, you are talking about competing against the regions and municipalities that we are forced to pay, but I would like to give you the example of Campania, where there are 48 landfills that are condemned by the European judgment. It is true, however, that we have had for twenty years commissioners for the land of fires, for the reclamations and for the garbage which, notoriously, are a governmental appointment. The blame, therefore, is of the State and consequently also yours. One last remark: you have focused your attention on the circular economy, but the Italian Government says so in words, but not in deeds. In fact, Europe tells us that we must permanently abandon the use of incinerators, but in the unblocking Italy you have started the construction of 12 new incinerators, instead of focusing on the construction of composting centres and on the reuse and recycling of waste.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u40	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I thank the Minister and I am grateful for the attention and the evidence he has shown with this House. I am happy to see that the speeches announced are finding a tangible reality in the facts and, therefore, I am satisfied. I urge you to ensure that your Dicastery supervises the management of WEEE waste, which is a para system forgave by the neglect of local management which is certainly lacking, particularly and unfortunately in the Centre-South. The silence of the provincial authorities, who hold responsibility for this matter, reveals that what is missing is above all the initial input from the municipalized companies. I therefore believe that the problem is at a different level in the administrative chain, and on this point it will be my concern, as well as my colleagues, to focus on the next steps to deepen the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u43	MOLINARI (Mixed). Mr President, I too will have to wait to read the report, partly because my questions were specific. As the other colleague has already pointed out, of the so-called circular economy I think that this Government has understood very little: it is true that it is against landfills, but if it continues to focus on so-called incinerators, it seems to have understood very little of what the circular economy is. Europe obliges us to put into circulation what is considered rejection. If we continue to go on with landfills and incinerators, we continue to catch infringements, and therefore make the Italian people pay doubly: both from the health point of view, because we will continue to send in the atmosphere the effects of incinerators and for the use of landfills, and because we will lose large sums of money because we will have to pay sanctions to Europe. I'm sorry, Minister, but I thought I felt something better.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u46	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I can only point out that the Minister replied to the question which I was asking and rightly referred to a report which he will deliver. I am confident that in the report it will certainly give a full response to this, in relation to a territory which - I would like to stress once again - is torn apart and violated, not only by criminal acts but also by municipal waste and toxic industrial waste, which have caused considerable damage, not only to the environment but also to health. I'm going back to your sensitivity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Romano, you will see that the Minister's report will be very timely and copious.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u49	Compagnon (AL-A). Mr President, Minister, if I agree with the good principles and the general approach that you have given to your reasoning - there is no doubt about this - I would like to stress, as other Members have already done, that it is contradictory to want to continue to insist on thermo-toolizers, for a very simple reason: in essence, we will replace what is already a negativity, namely landfills, with another negativity, which are the thermo-toolizers. It is always about pollution: instead of polluting the groundwater, we pollute the air. On this subject, on which I have repeatedly written letters to the President of the 13th Commission, we would like to make a point with you and the Government. In our view, we need to find another way to go; moreover, my question was to do so. The government must be the government and the state must be the state: it must impose on those who do not do it to pursue the right path, that of recycling, reuse and that circular economy in which we all say we believe. We cannot afford or continue to maintain landfills, let alone to think about being a waste-to-energy plant, which is the exact opposite but basically does not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u52	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, Minister, you have not answered SISTRI and I hope there is some trace in your document. Needless to say, Italian companies are the most vexed in Europe: in the last four years they have been beaten by the IMU and the TARI, in particular those forced to join the SISTRI. I would like to remind you that they have been forced to pay for this system that has been obsolete since birth; not only have they been burdened with burdens for an inefficient system that has also put delays in its production activity. I would like to hope that at least these companies will not face sanctions for the involuntary and misapplication of a system that will be broken in a few months' time. I therefore hope that your document will contain the cancellation of sanctions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u54	You may, although you have not asked any questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u55	DAVICO (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, Minister, I too reserve the right to see your report. We are talking about incinerators, air and the environment, and I have put a very specific question to you in another place: petcoke, which unfortunately for a few years we have been trying to use as fuel. But we cannot do different things: we cannot talk about cleaning the air and the environment and, at the same time, continue or proceed with activities that are dangerous and risky. As a precautionary measure, since you mentioned clearly in Paris and the decisions that will shortly have to be taken, I call for your intervention to suspend this very dangerous and very harmful activity to which all are opposed: local authorities, citizens, trade associations (especially agricultural associations), associations of free citizens, municipalities and provinces.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u56	Let us now turn to questions on climate change and energy efficiency, which will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Land and Sea Protection, Mr Galletti. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u59	VACCARI (PD). Mr President, Minister, I wanted to talk about the circular economy in order to reverse the order of interventions, and I would like to do so by trying to pick up some of the considerations that the Minister has already offered us. The European Commission will soon develop a new and ambitious circular economy strategy, which is an important part of a more comprehensive strategy that will see the commitment of the Union and the Member States to and after the Paris 2015 meeting. One objective of the strategy is to enable the development of relations with new markets and the implementation of new, more sustainable models and will be based on a directive and a communication containing an action plan. The 13th Commission has also worked on this issue to make a contribution to this meeting by calling for more courage from the European Union. I would therefore like to ask the Minister, on the subject of environmental taxation, how the Government intends to work with the European Union to promote incentives for companies that will prove to be virtuous. I would also like to know how your Ministry intends to enhance and support the heritage of good practice in our territories and that the municipalities and regions have achieved by arriving first in Europe, beyond the issue of incinerators, ensuring that the resources of the new EU action plan can focus on these good practices.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u62	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, for the same disguido that my colleague mentioned earlier, I will also try to raise the issue of waste in relation to the fight against climate change. Even in waste management, the European Agenda 2020 sets clear targets: at least 50% of municipal waste recycling and zero landfill use. It is an ambitious but achievable programme, given that some European countries are rapidly moving towards the goal. Meeting the objectives of the European Union for waste management is also an opportunity to bring substantial economic and employment repercussions, which is also an assessment of Italy's starting point, which you mentioned earlier. It is therefore necessary to carry out the industrialisation of the recycling chain and it is essential to pursue recovery of efficiency in the collection and selection phases, which are certainly adequate to ensure the fight against climate change that we are talking about. These are necessary conditions so that even the least developed countries in this sector, like ours, can reach the most virtuous. Really huge are the expected economic and employment spillovers: authoritative studies suggest more than €80 billion of more activity in the sector and the creation of 400,000 new jobs by 2020. I therefore ask you, with regard to the issues raised and to the European objectives, what is the state of the coordinated measures already taken or in progress by the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u65	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, Minister, if we are talking about climate change in Italy, the focus must be on the energy efficiency of the building stock, because this employs as much as 40% of the total energy consumption. The efficiency measures on buildings in line with the European objectives would in fact allow the reduction of consumption, easing the balance of payments on the purchase of energy from abroad, with the consequent reduction of the costs of supplying, as well as the improvement of the energy security. Let's remember that the Italian building park disperses on average 60 percent of the energy used to heat and refresh it. To cope with this waste, in 2007 the legislator established the so-called ecobonus, the facility for the energy redevelopment of buildings, which since then has been extended, but always in the most complete uncertainty and always for only a further year, thus preventing the enormous additional benefits that would have come from a pluriannual stabilisation, for example of three or five years. Numerous studies by ENEA and associations argue that this deduction has positive effects on energy saving, the environment, health, the economy and employment. According to CRESME from 2007 to 2014, ecobonus has stimulated investments of around 26 billion euros, which have generated 280,000 new employees in the construction sector, which would rise to 420,000 if we considered the induced and the economic balance between the resources used by the State to support the measure and those generated (VAT, IRPEF, etc.) is positive, thanks to the high emergence of the submerged economy. The Finance and Environment Commissions have committed the Government to giving stability to this facility. The Senate Industry Commission in the DEF has also expressed the need to stabilise the measure for a significant period and so far there are many extensions of the political world's deployments. For what reasons, then, it seems that the Government, in order to deal with climate change, has decided to include in the law of stability yet another extension of the ecobonus, once again for a single year, in fact preventing 14 million families living in the condominium from using it for a total restructuring of their condominiums, instead of stabilising it until 2020, with a reduction in the percentage of deduction that would have guaranteed a huge greater effectiveness of the measure, of which they could finally benefit the above families, who will once again remain dry mouth?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u68	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, in the field of climate change, one of the determining factors is certainly linked to the production and management of energy and to all those resources that make it a transversal element of everyday life both in terms of generation and consumption and use. In this context, a policy that, in terms of energy and environment, is aimed at developing, enhancing and implementing all new technologies oriented towards the sustainability of urban and territorial settlements is essential. We now know that there is a possible strengthening of the ecobonus in the government's examination. I recall that, in this area, the sustainability of buildings and the development of bio-building were specific elements of what was approved by the Senate last July, with the Environment Commission's resolution on the issue of circular economy No 580. I therefore ask you, Minister, what concrete initiatives are being taken, even at the forthcoming opening of the budgetary session, in order to strengthen the instrument of ecobonus, the urgency of which is evident, also in the light of the recent calamitous events affecting the buildings, not only in terms of energy, but also in terms of static, anti-seismic and water.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u71	Orellana (Mist). Minister, there are many studies indicating Lombardy as the most polluted region in Italy and one of the most polluted areas in Europe. A twenty-year study conducted by CNR showed that current climate change, also caused by intense industrial activity, has dramatically affected the climate and the Lombard environment; one of the most evident symptoms is the half-life of fog episodes. In the province of Pavia in particular, despite the agricultural vocation, with excellent rice in Lomellina and wineries in the Oltrepò, there are numerous plants for the management and disposal of waste. In fact, to the two great thermo-toolizers of Parona and Corteolona, capable of burning a quantity of waste far greater than the local production, are added other industrial plants that, burning, among other things, palm oil - evidently not of Italian origin - lolla and chippeato, determine a sharp increase of the pollutants present in the air. The local situation is further compromised by the spreading activity of about 800,000 tons of sludge, even of industrial origin, that every year are scattered in the fields of my Province and used as fertilizer, thanks to a process that allows to reuse sewage sludge, rich in carbon, to fertilize the soil. This can be considered a concrete example of a circular economy, but this process does not guarantee the complete elimination from the sludge of highly toxic substances, such as heavy metals, which permanently pollute soils and groundwaters. In view of this situation, which is of course of great concern and alarm among the citizens, I ask you whether your Ministry does not consider it appropriate to revise the now obsolete national legislation, based on Legislative Decree No 99 of 27 January 1992, in order to modify the maximum acceptable thresholds for the harmful elements present in the sludge, to impose more frequent and punctual analyses, carried out by public laboratories (but charging the costs to the producers of the sludge), as well as to ensure stricter controls on the soils suitable for receiving the sludge and on the mode of transport, storage and spreading of the sludge.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u74	Compagnon (AL-A). Mr President, in practice, the Minister has already responded in his introduction to what I will explain later, and that is a very positive fact. The Paris Conference, which you referred to, Minister, will have to be the time to re-examine the issue of climate change at global level and that Europe, presumably, will have to make other efforts to further reduce and limit pollutant emissions. It has also been shown that the renewable energy and energy efficiency sectors, and research, if properly stimulated, have enormous potential in creating new jobs. Our country, especially the South of Italy, then has conditions of irradiation, wind power as well as the presence of natural energy plants, such as the sea, wind and volcanoes, of exceptional value. Moreover, the energy strategy of a modern country can no longer rely on oil (it is, moreover, destined to run out). All this said, even if you have already responded in practice; Minister, I would like to know what is the general strategy and the perspective of our country, and if you do not think that the projects concerning and using oil should be progressively abandoned and strengthened, instead, the investments and incentives for the realization of energy production plants from renewable sources, also widespread, in order to give the possibility to the citizens to become themselves micro-producer of energy and cooperate, therefore, to the achievement of the more general objectives of the country. I would also like to ask you whether the Government does not consider it necessary to invest primarily in research into the storage of energy from renewable sources, in order to provide for the progressive replacement of energy produced from fossil and climatic sources with clean energy from renewable sources over time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u77	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Minister, the next Paris Climate Conference will mark a decisive stage in the negotiations for the future international agreement after 2020, so that global warming can be curbed. We believe that the law of stability for 2016 launched by the Government this morning (and we will see when it will be made public) should take particular account of this event and propose policies adapted to the objectives that are being achieved. The increase in the temperature of the Mediterranean, the waves of heat and the intrusion of salt water that lead to a progressive loss of biodiversity and desertification, alternating with torrential rains from tropical climate are phenomena that increase the hydrogeological risk of our territory, already vulnerable, and make immediate interventions necessary both for the achievement of the objectives of the reduction of CO2 and for the actions of prediction and prevention of phenomena calamitous from hydrogeological risk. I cannot avoid quoting the sudden and devastating air trumpet that hit the Brenta Riviera in Veneto on 8 July last year or, more recently, the flood in Piacentino, events that caused damage, deaths and injuries. Minister, I would like to ask you whether, by means of the law of stability, the Government intends, on the one hand, to extend, or stabilize, the ecobonus, including by extending the audience of interventions benefiting from tax relief; on the other hand, if it has identified the missing resources to finance the plan for the removal of the hydrogeological structure of the broader National Plan for the prevention and contrast to the hydrogeological failure 2015-2020. Finally, if the derogation from the Stability Pact has been provided for territorial authorities intending to carry out improbable and urgent ground protection measures aimed at the prevention of hydrogeological failure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u80	DE PIN (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Mr President, Minister, these very hours are showing that the civil protection machine is not working and, above all, that prevention actions have never been put in place by this Government. We would like to know from you, Minister, whether at least the strategies for the conscious use of the soil have been defined, to avoid hydrogeological disasters and reduce the vulnerability of the territory, by setting up those necessary alarm and monitoring systems, as well as the essential coordination of institutional activities between the State, the Regions and the Basin Authorities, defining the conversions, the productive transformations and the renaturalizations. That is, ultimately, if there is a policy of active defence of the territory, or if we must continue to pursue the disasters that inevitably follow thanks to the uncriteria of land and land consumption. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Mr Galletti, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u81	Mr President, I follow the previous pattern by making a further clarification. 99 percent of the questions you have asked are answered in the document. The questions on European integrated cycle policies, state of infringement, car deposits, environmental taxation and good practices, waste traceability control system (SISTRI), national sites of interest (SIN), waste management in Calabria and Sicily, petcoke are detailed in the answer. You understand that if I had to answer each of these questions, there would not be enough time. So I want to focus on the macrothemes you've raised. On waste, I repeat explicitly: no one has foreseen the construction of 12 waste-to-energy heaters in this country. According to article 35 of the release Italy we did a reconnaissance of the needs. If the regions show me, in deeds and not in words, that those waste-to-energy heaters are not indispensable, I will be the first not to do them. They must tell me, however, because if we are still content with words, we continue to take waste to landfill and, therefore, implement the worst environmental practice we can do and continue to take infringements. I won't tolerate this. So, I'll accept from anyone who projects to encourage separate collection. I correct myself: we must not talk about projects, but about acts that make me understand that in a short time we are going towards that definition. As far as alternative energies are concerned, you have in particular asked for details of the ecobonus. The Stability Act provides for an extension for another year; on the contrary, it is extended because it will be valid from this year also for public housing (ERP). I believe that we must intervene with energy efficiency very strongly on those too. On this too, therefore, you will be able to enjoy the ecobonus. I believe that this instrument has worked and we must continue to apply it. I repeat: the law of stability is provided for. I forgot that in the law of stability there is also another thing about waste, especially those in Campania. You know that there is an infringement and there is a budget of 150 million per year for three years to intervene precisely on the problem of waste in Campania, particularly as regards the land of fires. I believe that this is an important signal that we give to the Campania Region. It indicates the attention this Government has for all the issues that affect the South of our country. I think this is the first time that we have taken such a strong action on a specific waste problem in Campania. Going back to the ecobonus - excuse the confusion - I think it was a very positive experience, as I said before, and that we must continue because it allows us an energy efficiency and to show how good environmental practices can be flyers of the economy of this country. Let us not forget that the energy efficiency of buildings also triggers a series of economic operations and investments that concern mainly small and medium-sized enterprises operating on the territory. As far as hydrogeological failure is concerned. I disagree. Civil protection does not depend on my Ministry, but directly on the Council of Ministers. Personally, I believe that civil protection works in this country. It can always work better, but I find it ingenious to say that it does not work, even towards that large number of people who, whenever there is a catastrophic atmospheric event, voluntarily go to help, with their own skills, the affected territories. I must also say - but I am not saying this because it is a point in our favour - that we have also seen that in other parts of Europe, as in the French Riviera, these events have a very strong impact on the territories that are affected. Unfortunately, we, who have already had many of these events, have developed a civil protection system that, I repeat, can and must still be improved, but that in many cases, as in the penultimate, that of Olbia a couple of weeks ago, has worked allowing to save human lives. On the hydrogeological disaster we still have a lot to do, but with great pride, believe me, I say that something, indeed - I throw myself - we have done a lot, because we have simplified the rules and this has allowed us to commit resources that were already there and were still for many years. Today, many of those resources are more than a thousand open yards and this has been achieved by simplifying the rules and allowing the Presidents of the Region to take over the functions of extraordinary commissioners delegates. We have also prepared an ambitious plan, which will last seven years, with operations planned for 1.3 billion, which we have already financed with 650 million and which we plan to finance for the other 650 million at the beginning of next year. This plan has been prepared with a criterion on which I want to draw your attention: to identify the most urgent works, also as dangerous, that is those cases that endanger a large number of citizens, but also to favour those municipalities or regions that are later in the state of design. Let's stop believing that the problem of this country is always and only the resources: "I don't have the money" is an excuse of those who don't want to do things. That's not always the problem. Of course, it is also a problem of resources, but the resources need to be able to spend them - and this is another problem we have - and to be able to spend them well. The problem must then be seen in its globality and we are addressing it in its globality. Then I want to be serious with you and responsible: it is not that with what we have done we have fixed the hydrogeological risks of this country. We are not even close, because we pay for a degradation and neglect of years, which have materialized in a lack of maintenance, in a lack of culture of protection of the territory, in the damned building condonons that we have released for years and that have weakened our territories. We must then resume everything: we must find the resources, spend them well, teach people what it means to respect the territory and say forcefully "never more condonos building." In the environmental connection we have allocated 11 million for the demolitions of abusive houses and I say, with a strong statement, that if that fund is spent immediately everything I am ready to put in more money from my Ministry and refinance it until there will be demands in this sense, because I find it a civilization intervention. It is no longer a problem of resources that of the demolition of abusive buildings: for those who want to make money there are and I assume responsibility for it. I'm going to remove resources from other parts of my ministry and go fund that fund, make it clear to everyone. In the law of stability there is the possibility of using the administrative surpluses of the local authorities also for interventions against landslides, for the cleaning of rivers and against the hydrogeological failure and I think that this is also a great step forward. We are also studying a measure from my Ministry to see if we can arrange further interventions for small landslides in the municipalities. On this, therefore, the commitment is and is a decisive and strong commitment. However, we will not solve the problem shortly, because it takes years to recover what I just said. Let us bear in mind that an intervention on hydrogeological failure takes a long time both because there is design and because, even when the works have begun, it is work, sometimes, of hundreds of millions of euros that need years of work and construction sites. So I don't want anyone to believe that the state of our territory has changed profoundly this year, as we would say something not correct. We started a job, which is long, but if we don't start it never ends. This is one of those things that politics does not like and which is not done because - I repeat - a political policy does not like. In fact, most of the works I'm doing today will be inaugurated by my successor. Politics is reluctant to do things that are not immediately seen; I believe instead that we must have the morals and ethics to start a work on this, even at the cost of doing something for those who will come and with the will to achieve something that has a strong meaning in terms of protecting the territory of this country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u84	VACCARI (PD). Mr President, I am certainly pleased with the answers that the Minister has given us. Of course, I will also read the answers on the issues I raised in the document. As the Minister has argued, the circular economy is an important part of a strategy that leads us to fight climate change and to ask Europe to be more courageous and to clarify the rules also with regard to the circular economy and waste management. We have asked Europe to work on ecodesign, eco-industry and eco-innovation. The related environment which, as I hope, we will approve next week, already anticipates many of the contents that the Minister has indicated to us today and I believe can also be an important contribution in the debate that our State will make with the European Union on the new directive on the circular economy.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u87	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have listened carefully to the Minister's statements and I take note of them, but I continue to regard them as general statements. It is therefore necessary to enter into the concrete in order to understand well. I believe that on the issues of energy efficiency and the fight against climate change (which can be pursued through energy efficiency and renewable energy sources) it is essential, Minister, to give certainty to those who invest. It seems to me that the framework needs to be clarified and deepened and I hope to find answers and to be able to give them to those who ask me, starting with the reading of the approximately forty pages of the document that the Minister has announced to us.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u90	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr Minister, your answer is very unsatisfactory to us and to the 14 million Italian families who, once again, will not be able to proceed with energy efficiency interventions simply because they will not have the time. Looks like the king's naked and the government dropped the mask. On the other hand, she was the one who declared on "Il Sole 24 Ore" of recent days that she was opposed to a stabilisation that could compromise the effectiveness of the norm itself. Unlike what you think, the 5 Star Movement and the business world are and are strongly convinced that the stabilization for three and five years of ecobonus is a real and positive opportunity to create work, protect the environment and health and, vice versa, reduce the profits of energy producers (the only ones who will still be happy). Other than climate change: we have the opportunity to improve the building stock by helping companies in different sectors with an industrial policy aimed at innovation and the use of technologies that produce clean energy or that greatly reduce energy consumption. On the other hand, it seems that you are only working to give account to fossil energy producers by means of measures that promote energy consumption. In the Senate the 5 Star Movement Group has tabled a motion in favour of the stabilisation of ecobonus (an initiative taken also by other political forces) and from today, in the context of the discussion of the bill of stability, we will do everything in our ability to be approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u93	DI BIAGIO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Minister, thank you for your response, which shows the Government's serious attention to the issue of protection of the territory, with a view to sustainability. I am therefore fully satisfied. Ecobonus-enhancing measures are key to strengthening an approach to energy efficiency that strongly focuses on regeneration and redevelopment of cities at all levels. This means operating immediately on the buildings, starting from the individual housing units, but also proceeding harmoniously along what we could define the urban chain: plurality of buildings, popular buildings, neighborhoods up to the city floor, as also provided for by the European directives. The assets of such a project certainly include initiatives aimed at strengthening the sustainability of buildings and the development of bio-building. Concretizing all this is an objective that we set ourselves and on which we are prepared, as the Environment Commission, to support all the initiatives that your Dicastery will certainly be able to put in place.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u96	Orellana (Mist). Mr President, I am satisfied with the general answers given by the Minister. I was pleased to hear the confirmation of the commitment to building abusing, the willingness not to build further thermo-toolizers and also the words spent on ecobonus. As for my more specific questions about the reality of the Province of Pavia, I wanted to represent a seriously compromised environmental reality, where instead an example of circular economy, as can be the spreading of sludge, is managed in a very questionable way and, in my opinion, needs a regulatory update at national level. On this I hope that there is something in your report, Minister, and I therefore hope to receive an answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u99	Compagnon (AL-A). Mr Minister, I have already told you that you have dealt with this subject extensively and had dealt with it even before our questions, but we cannot be satisfied with the general strategy of the Government. It is clear that more can be done and that we should do more. I think of the ecobonus: the ideal would be to imagine it in a multi-year version, which would give a greater stabilization to the system. However, the commitment of the Government, when it decided to confirm this measure, is already a positive fact that must be recorded. The same applies - and I think this attention to the territory is very interesting - to the choice of finally allocating funds for the demolition of abusive structures; I believe that this too is an act of great good will. Something more should be done and studied with regard to prevention. I don't think Civil Protection doesn't work. Those like me who made the mayor know that Italian Civil Protection is one of the best in the world; but certainly it can be improved. I believe that something more must be done with regard to the prevention of hydrogeological failure, which is not the responsibility of civil protection, but it is the responsibility of the Government, which must put in place a whole series of actions to protect the territory, starting from a greater attention to agriculture, which, let us not forget, represents the first approach to the maintenance of the territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u102	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr Minister, unfortunately, the many words and commitments are not followed by actions for effective prevention of hydrogeological failure. Our territory absolutely needs land defense works, so funding must be provided. I have to say that the financing timetables laid down in the previous Stability Act have been disregarded. If there are local and regional authorities that do not use resources, these local and regional authorities must be taken away. A notation: Europe allows a 0.2% flexibility, which in money is over three billion euros, to allow our country to address the issue of immigration, in particular the reception system. It is a paradox that we do not have the same flexibility for what we think is a higher priority, namely the protection of the territory. So I fear that our country will continue to sink and that we will continue to spend those few resources to cope with emergencies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u105	DE PIN (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M)). Dear Minister, I find myself completely dissatisfied. My focus was precisely on prevention, because I did not launch, on August 6th, the hashtag "#Italiasicura". There are problems and I think that you do not want to take the responsibility of saying with certainty that future misfortunes do not happen anymore, also because we cannot say. I think that the money available is still insufficient. Only in Veneto do I remind you of the flood of 2010 that cost two billion. There are many works, however, that have been going on for thirty years; I remind you of one: the Padua-Venice waterway, which in my territory would secure half of Veneto. It has been started for 30 years and has never been completed; it would only be 650 million, compared with the two billion spent. I think there's a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u106	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Galletti for his helpfulness and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u107	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-10-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-524.ana.u108	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 20 October, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.16 p.m.
