ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u4	As part of the programme of administrative cooperation between the Senate and the Upper Chambers of the United Kingdom, Germany and France, a delegation of the French Senate is present in the gallery and attends our work, to which we address a particular greeting and wish for good work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u5	Colleagues, I invite you to a moment of attention. [[Brusio.]] Let's show the French Senate how the Italian Senate works. The Conference of Leaders confirmed the schedule of the current week and approved by a majority the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 24 September. Next week, the Assembly will meet again from Tuesday afternoon 15 September to examine the draft framework law on international missions. At the beginning of the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 16 the documents for which the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has deposited the report will be discussed. At 4.30 p.m. the call of the senators for the vote for the election of a member of the Board of President of the Court of Auditors will be made. The ballot boxes will remain open until 7 p.m. On Wednesday 16th the resignation presented by Senator Vacciano will be put to the vote. The calendar also provides for discussion of the bill on the reorganization of financial advice and motions on the protection of children's rights in the territories controlled by ISIS and Boko Haram and on RC car insurance rates. The afternoon session of Thursday 17 will end at 12.15 p.m. to allow the senators to participate in a mass of suffrage in memory of Senator Donato Bruno. During the afternoon session on Thursday 17 September the question time will take place, with the presence of the Minister for the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. The schedule of the week from 22 to 24 September includes, in addition to the possible follow-up of the unfinished topics, the examination of the draft law on the introduction of the torture crime in the penal code and on the disciplinary responsibility of the magistrates, as well as the related environmental bill, where concluded by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the program of the Senate's work for the months of July, August and September 2015: - Drawing of law n. 1917 - Provisions concerning the participation of Italy in international missions (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1559 - Rules for the reorganization of the financial advisory activity - Drawing of law n. 10-362-388-395-849-874-B - Introduction of the crime of torture in the Italian law (Approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1676 - Provisions in environmental matters to promote measures of green economy and for the containment of the excessive use of natural resources (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Linked to the financial maneuver) (final vote with the presence of the legal number)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u7	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted by a majority - in accordance with Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the new agenda for the Assembly until 24 September 2015: [[Wednesday 9 September pom. h. 16,30-20 - Following draft law no. 2008 and 2009 - 2014 account and 2015 settlement (final votes with the presence of the quorum) - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs Thursday 10 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 10 September pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] [[Tuesday, September 15 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Draft law n. 1917 - Framework law on international missions (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Documents of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities (Wednesday 16, 9.30 a.m.) - Voting on the resignation submitted by Senator Vacciano (Vote by secret ballot by electronic procedure) (Wednesday 16) - Voting on the election of a member of the Board of President of the Court of Auditors (Wednesday 16, 16.30 a.m.) (*) - Draft law n. 1559 - Reorganisation of financial advisory activities - Discussion of motions on the protection of children's rights in territories controlled by ISIS and Boko Haram - Discussion of motions on RC car insurance tariffs Wednesday 16 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 17 " ant. h. 9,30-12,15 Thursday, September 17 pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea (*) Voting by secret ballot by ballot. At the opening of the afternoon session on Wednesday, September 16, the call of the senators will be made. The ballot boxes will then remain open until 7 p.m. Amendments to draft law No 1917 (Fundamental Law on International Missions) and No 1559 (Reorganisation of financial advisory activities) should be tabled no later than 5 p.m. on Thursday 10 September.]] [[Tuesday 22 September pom. h. 16,30-20 - Possible follow-up to unconcluded arguments - Drawing of law n. 10-362-388-395-849-874-B - Introduction of the crime of torture in the penal code (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 112 - Disciplinary responsibility of the magistrates - Drawing of law n. 1676 - Provisions in environmental matters (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Linked to the financial maneuver) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) (Ove concluded in the Commission) Wednesday 23 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 24 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 24 September pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to bill No 10-362-388-395-849-874-B (Introduction of torture in the penal code) should be tabled by 5 p.m. on Thursday 17 September. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 1676 (Environmental provisions) will be set in relation to the Commission's work. Breakdown of time limits for the discussion of draft law Nos. 2008 and 2009 (Rendiconto 2014 and Assestamento 2015) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 8' FI-PdL XVII 36' M5S 32' AP (NCD-UDC) 31' Mixed 29' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI- MAYE 24' LN-Aut 21' GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M) 20' COR 20' AL-A 20' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1676 (Environmental provisions) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 8' FI-PdL XVII 36' M5S 32' AP (NCD-UDC) 31' Mixed 29' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI- MAYE 24' LN-Aut 21' GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M) 20' COR 20' AL-A 20' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u10	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I will speak very quickly to say that, precisely because a timetable has been presented, approved by a majority, which defines the subject of our work for two weeks, it would be absolutely necessary to include the draft law on civil unions on the calendar for the week from 22 to 24 September. I say this in a very quiet way, because we can no longer continue to see statements - which, for goodness sake, are fine - from the Government and the majority that the bill will still be passed and will arrive at the Assembly and then, when it is proposed at least to schedule the measure, we are faced with a completely different situation, as has happened today and as you know, Mr President. My view on this is always the same: not to include the draft law in the calendar of this House is, in fact, to ensure that, within the Commission, work continues in the examination at a slow pace. I therefore call for the official inclusion of the debate on this draft law on the calendar for the week that I have mentioned. I would also like to raise another question, Mr President, which I imagine Mr Castaldi will also raise. We have asked several times to put the debate on guaranteed minimum income on the agenda, at least that is what is called in our proposal, while others talk about citizenship income; among other things there are proposals also made by members of the majority in this regard. We have heard all the times that the Presidency would have called on the Commission to work, as it has done, and we acknowledge that, Mr President. However, the Commission does not go ahead and therefore raises a problem in some way of boycotting these issues: I say this very clearly. Nor is there any trace on the part of the rapporteur of the possibility of reaching a basic text before the summer, on which at least to begin working to prepare the amendments. As far as we are concerned, we ask that this theme be included in the calendar, always in the above-mentioned week, for a very simple reason: as you know, on 15 October the budgetary session will begin and it is clear to everyone that once entered this particular session, measures such as that on income of dignity - I want to call it as the Free Association calls it - being a law of expenditure, they will no longer be able to proceed with their own iter. This relates to another question: do oppositions have the right or not, in this House, to see their own draft laws discussed? A few months ago there was an attempt to include some measures, but they disappeared and were blocked in the Commissions. This speech concerns the income of dignity, as well as the identification of members of the Forces of Order and also other issues that were the right of the opposition to see finally included in the agenda of the proceedings of the House. I therefore think that this element should be clear to everyone. They are also measures that would, yes, give great help, as in the case of income of dignity, not only for the benefit of people, but also for the benefit of the economy of this country. Honestly, the bill on civil unions is presented as part of the government program, but then in the end they must be forces like ours, who are in opposition, to solicit its calendarization. Then, as you know, in view of the timetable you have read, this request is not accepted by the majority forces. That is why I hope that this time this House will take decisions that will enable us to take steps forward, both as regards the inclusion in the calendar of the measure on civil unions, and as regards the very serious and very important issue for this country of income of dignity. [[Applause from Senator Barozzino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u13	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, having listened to Mrs De Petris, I believe that the calendarisation of the provision on civil unions, given also what happened at the Conference of the Leaders, if we get to the vote in this House today on this calendar, should pass. We who were present at the Conference of the Leaders have heard what the political forces are doing. As far as the 5 Star Movement is concerned, today we are strongly asking for the calendarization, tomorrow, of the citizenship income. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The reason is simple, Mr President, and it is the same that we said at the Conference of Leaders: since November 2014, every President of our Group, at each Conference of Leaders, has made this request. I agree with Senator De Petris: in the Commissions this provision is boycotted. Then we come to this House, we put our face to it and we debate it, because I believe that today for 9 million Italians, largely represented by very weak groups and in unacceptable economic conditions, it is the duty of this Parliament to exercise its power and to demand the immediate calendarisation in the House of our bill on citizenship income. We must give this country something useful for the recovery, because there is nothing on the calendar for the citizens; it is a very light calendar. Let's do it now and do it now tomorrow. I think that in your heart you are tired of listening to slogans; I think you are tired of the media launches of the serial liar that we have caught from the deck, indeed, that the strong powers have fished from the deck, to make the rich enrich and always impoverish the citizens who constantly pay for this type of policy. The income of citizenship, in addition to dignity (by turning to Senator De Petris), Loredana, allow me, is a serious economic maneuver, which would really set consumption in motion, increase profits and, consequently, employment. This measure would certainly lead to an increase in collective wealth; on the contrary, we have the lie to the Government that aims to increase the wealth of the few. So, Mr President, our request is clear: tomorrow, in this House, citizenship income. At that point, publicly and in front of the whole country, everyone takes a precise position and responds to the Italians, who, if I'm not mistaken, pay us well to work for all of them. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u16	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, in addition, of course, to our Group's proposal, which has just been put forward by the Castaldi Parent Company, I would like to ask that the motion be included in the agenda for next week's work so as not to equip the F35 with nuclear weapons. It was tabled on 29 April at sitting No 439, and this is Act 1-00405. Having been signed by nearly 70 senators, it should have been discussed within a month, but it has not yet been done. I therefore call for it to be included in the next week's timetable, including on other subjects.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u17	I put to the vote the proposal to include in the timetable the draft law on citizenship income. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in view of the disorder in this House and the importance of the subject that is required to be scheduled, I would kindly ask you to try again.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u18	Indeed, even with the help of the secretary senators, we have been able to see that the proposal has been largely rejected. [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] TAVERNA (M5S). They didn't even raise their hands. SANTANGELO (M5S). I raised two hands. It doesn't cost you anything, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. Please don't take pictures in the courtroom. It's not approved. [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] I put to the vote the proposal to include the draft law on civil unions in the calendar of proceedings. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. [[Ironic applause from Senator Donno.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). But how, Mrs Cirinna votes against? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal to include motion 1-00405 in the agenda. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure, so we check the numbers: I suppose that's the purpose. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u19	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on draft law Nos. 2008 and 2009. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the joint general discussion and the replies of the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government took place. I inform you that, since the final vote on the two measures will take place by electronic ballot, pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, once the votes of the articles of the accounts have been completed, we will proceed directly to the examination of the articles of the settlement. The joint explanations of vote will then be followed and the two votes will be taken using the electronic system.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u22	Mr Barani (AL-A). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental dimensions of the budget show all the difficulties of the moment. Thanks to the symmetrical shock that has affected all Western economies (oil price reduction, quantitative easing, low inflation) we have managed to stay within the public finance constraints that are valid in Europe. But we have not been able to reverse the course of a trend that has been going on for too many years now. Once again, current expenditure net of interest shows an incremental profile of almost 13 billion, which amounts to about 0.8% of GDP. It has not been translated into a greater deficit only thanks to the saving of interest expenditure, mainly attributable to the decisions taken by Mario Draghi and the liquidity rain that has invested the European market. This led to a general fall in interest rates and thus to savings in relative spending of around EUR 8 billion. Let us hope that the end-of-year summary can confirm this assumption of reduction. Next week the Fed will decide whether or not to raise its interest rate structure by 0.25 percent. It is not certain that this will happen. But if the choice were to be directed in this direction, we will have to observe very carefully the effects that will result on the European markets. Let us not forget that financial interdependence is very strong. It follows that decisions that are so far from a geographical point of view, as has always been the case, can also adversely affect the European situation. (17.02) (Followed by Mr Barani). The differential between interest rates can result in capital movements from the old Europe in favour of the dollar. This would lead to a further strengthening of the green currency, but this would greatly complicate the ECB's management of the monetary base. So far the revaluation of the dollar has produced swinging results. In the first part of the year the phenomenon has favoured European exports contributing to the limited growth that has been achieved. But then the process reversed. The dollar, which reached its maximum revaluation point (1.04 against the euro), has gradually devalued to a value of 1.12 in the last month, with peaks of up to 1.15. Values, however, far from government predictions that were serving an exchange rate of 1.08. The consequences of this error immediately reflected on the economic profiles of our economy. In the second quarter of this year, according to ISTAT's most recent estimates, foreign losses (due to insufficient growth in our exports compared to imports) have fully offset that small awakening of domestic demand. So the increase in GDP - the 0.4% that so much dreamed - was only a consequence of the increase in stocks: a provisional figure. If they do not turn into more turnover for companies in the coming months, what we have gained in terms of growth we will lose it as quickly as possible. That is why reforms must be made, all of them. No one, therefore, is able to predict what will happen from here to the end of the year: GDP can still grow, if domestic demand will take effect, but it can also fall if cyclical turbulence, due to China's poor performance, will lead to further compression of world trade and, therefore, to a stronger fall in our exports. Don't gamble predictions. Moreover, those who venture with this impalpable future do so at their own risk (investors know something about it): they can win the throne of prophecy, but they can also fall into the dust, after having demonstrated all its ignorance. For this reason, I am deeply wary of the anticipations that follow. It is better to watch, but also to reflect on the fact that we cannot continue to move forward with an economic policy whose outcomes are increasingly dependent on chance, while we do little to reverse a trend that does not satisfy us, and that is why we need to reform, and all of them. The demonstration is also, albeit not only, in the data of this budget: the compensation of the higher current expenditures, net of interest, has taken place only thanks to an increase of the tax levy for approximately 3.5 billion (tax revenues), for another 850 million (extra tax revenues) and for ulterior 2.3 billion for alienation of the assets. It is, therefore, a so-called tax and spending, albeit more limited. On the last item, however, we need to spend a few words. Selling family jewelry is more than just in times of crisis, indeed we are very late due to the uncertainties related to the actual take-off of the spending review. But the receipts from these sales cannot cover current expenditure; they should, instead, bear capital expenditure, to give Italy infrastructure worthy of a Western country, and above all to be invested in the South, which is in great crisis, while the latter item has only increased by a handful of millions, just over 200. It is certainly not with this financial strategy that we can cope with the immense work of modernization that the country requires us and for which President Renzi, at least in words, is spending so much. It is therefore necessary that the policy statements follow concrete facts, but these unfortunately do not manifest themselves, at least not with the necessary evidence. As you can see, judgment is not positive: there are too many shadows and few lights, even if there is some light. Of course, let us not forget that events that have not depended on the will of the Government have weighed in this rough course: the decisions of the Constitutional Court on the indexing of pensions have led to an unplanned drainage, demonstrating that, even today, we are paying for the mistakes of the past governments. I am referring to the excess of austerity that, during the Monti Government, has absolutized the budgetary data, regardless of any constitutional considerations, so it ended up as it had to go and the Court's ruling in favour of pensioners has restored legal principles violated with too much falsity. I hope that this will at least be a lesson - I am thinking of certain elements of the current President of the INPS - for the future. In the same way, for the future it must make the opposition that is manifested, by some circles, to the hypothesis of reduction of the imposition on the first house and the sheds. Today we recognize - and we hope that this is a majority position - that it was a mistake to apply it in such massive doses. Since I was there when it was launched with the first law of stability of the Monti government, I would like to remind you that then we needed an additional levy of 20 billion and certainly we were wrong. In the measure, however, it was thought to give the municipalities greater tax capacity. The proceeds, against any forecast, were therefore 24 billion, those 4 billion more that correspond, roughly, to the taxation of the first house, excluding luxury mansions and castles. There is a need to reconsider today. Meanwhile, however, the real estate market has collapsed further. Average prices decreased by 30-35 percent. People do not sell or buy: they simply save, despite low interest rates, to restore the value of their assets. As a result, the pace of development, due to a lack of domestic demand, continues to stagnate. We hope, therefore, that this debate on an aseptic document such as the one on budgetary adjustment will also help to awaken sleepwalkers, to make them understand that it is necessary to change, reform and make them quickly. But it is necessary to change really, without questioning whether the measures we intend to take are right or left, but only if they contribute or not to restart the country. We are in a situation of waiting. Let us hope that, in the end, healthy common sense prevails. But until we see concrete signs in this direction we will not be able to vote in favour of the measure. We will therefore vote against it in a constructive manner. Let's give a five more to the government, in the hope of being better able to contribute later on to get Italy out of that swamp where we have all gotten ourselves into. And, if that happens, we are ready, as a Group, to change our vote in favour from now on. But only if we contribute and will be listened to in the future with great responsibility and with our precious experience and competence, if the Government can grasp our suggestions, will we, of course, be ready to contribute to the rebirth, with the reforms, of this State that is actually not up to what we really deserve. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u25	MILO (CoR). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth pointing out some essential issues also in the light of the Vice-Minister's reply because, reading the data, both from the accounts and from the settlement, it is clear that there are many shadows. There is little to add to the figures. The figures are commented on by themselves. The net balance of 2014 deteriorated by almost 25 billion. Government debt, relative to GDP, continues to rise. In the preamble, we must note that Parliament is still not in a position to fully assess the state of public finance as a whole. And this is not just about the estimates of macroeconomic and financial developments contained in the programming documents, namely the DEF and the Update Note. These are estimates - we all know - characterized by wide margins of randomity linked to macro forecasts. No study center or controller ever catches in the sign about macro estimates and there has never been any macro prediction that has not been denied by the facts. What concerns us, however, is the current management of the budget and the actual possibility for Parliament to make a concrete contribution to planning and, above all, to monitoring budgetary results. An emblematic example of this, in this bill of settlement, is the blatant reinstatement of the fund for indifferent and urgent expenses, contained in Article 3: a rule, therefore, characterized by obvious profiles of asystematicity compared to the content typical of the bill of settlement, which contributes to worsening the quality, in terms of transparency and effective knowledge of the budget. It would therefore be necessary to provide that the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers with which the use of the fund is to be made, Mr Vice-Minister, should always be forwarded to the Budget Commissions. In any case, it is the entire management of current public finance that leaves us extremely perplexed. There is no news of the state of implementation of the legendary spending review, initially entrusted to Commissioner Cottarelli, whose work was closed in the chests of drawers of the Ministry. Then the famous safeguard clauses, amounting to about 73 billion in the three years 2016-2018, hang. A review of the governance of the financial programming cycle is therefore needed to address these issues in a substantial way. We are still very puzzled by the Government's invitation to the Commission to quantify on time the savings expected from the reform, so that these constraints will serve as an objective for the executives called upon to implement it. The inclusion in the budget of savings from lower expenditure cannot, in fact, be more than the result of interventions that are suitable to produce savings that are reliable. What is actually to be welcomed is the call to strengthen Parliament's work in evaluating public policies and monitoring results. I would also like to make a few brief comments on the subject of completing the reform of the accounting law and on the adjustments to the two instruments in relation to the requirements imposed by the renewed constitutional discipline of budgetary balance. In July, the Senate and Chamber Committees carried out an important cognitive activity on this subject. By limiting myself only to these two instruments, I would point out that the substantial nature which is attributed to the unified budgetary law in the new system of public finance rules cannot be extended to the settlement law, with which only compensatory changes between the financial allocations will continue to be possible, even if between different voting units. The law of settling, therefore, can consequently have only characteristics and contents similar to the second section of the future unified fiscal law, not being able, however, to contain innovations regarding the legislation in force. With respect to the budget programming cycle, however, it appears necessary that, in any event, the adjustment should ensure full consistency between the balance of the State budget for the current financial year and the policy objectives in terms of public administration as set out in the DEF. Having said that, and also listening to the Vice-Minister's reply, I would like to focus mainly on the challenges ahead of us in the coming months. The financial economic framework seems to us worrying and confusing. The President of the Council continues to tell us about a country that is not there and uses ISTAT data in an instrumental way. The very weak data on GDP growth in the first two quarters - for example - as anyone can see, depends largely on the accumulation of stocks. It remains to be seen whether these will lead to consumption. The figure on unemployment then, which has reached the historical record, moves mainly for seasonal effects, not to mention the decontribution that has caused no new recruitment, but only transformation of fixed-term contracts and with exorbitant burdens (8 billion). Moreover, the figure conceals a further increase in the inactive, more commonly known as discouraged. So, while over 16 billion additional resources are burned on the pyre of the monument to the leader, we continue to see an absolutely unjustified optimism. Meanwhile, after 2014 closed in recession, GDP in 2015 could close with a low 0.7% or 0.8%: an absolutely insufficient figure to create jobs and contain the dynamics of the debt-to-GDP ratio. We have reached a debt-to-GDP ratio of 132%, a figure never so high in the history of the Italian Republic and that seems destined to increase more and more. Our Premier has to be attributed only one great fortune: a very favorable conjuncture between oil prices and interest rates and spreads, in turn determined by the quantitative easing of the ECB, all external circumstances to the action of the Government. That is why, Mr Vice-Minister, we call the attention of the Government to provide for a responsible action, including with the contribution of Parliament, in particular on the control and containment of public expenditure, on the relaunch of investment, simplifications, on the reduction of the tax burden, on the reform of justice and, therefore, on the so-called structural reforms, while the institutional reform can never be included, obviously aimed only at the definitive humiliation of Parliament and the removal of the remaining marginal powers it retains compared to the Government. Above all, the search for the approximately 35 billion that the Premier said will serve for the next law of stability will be crucial. Experience teaches us that the larger the size of the maneuver, the greater the risk of failure, especially with regard to finding the necessary resources, with increasing risks of over-quantification of the greater revenue and the lower expenditures that constitute the whole of the resources. From this point of view, however, we trust for the umpteenth time in the cuts to the unproductive expenses of the entire public administration, cuts that, however, must not be linear, but selective, in order to affect only the situations of waste and inefficiency. In particular, we must note the failure of the notorious 80 euro bonus, an electoral measure that costs more than 8 billion and that has not produced macroeconomic effects and let alone a redistribution of wealth in favour of the less well-off. This is obvious to everyone. For everything I have said, our Group will vote against both the statement and the settlement. Dear Deputy Minister, however, we trust always and above all in the Update Note to the DEF and on the law of stability so that they can return, at least in part, to Parliament the possibility of having knowledge of the management of the policy and monitoring its results. [[Applause from the CoR and AL-A groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u28	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I begin my speech by talking about the statement in which - as has already been pointed out - all the balances have deteriorated. Rightly the Deputy Minister says that the government that misestimated the predictions was the previous one. That is true, but I remind everyone that that Government was chaired by Enrico Letta and supported by the current PD and the NCD and therefore, in the eyes of the citizens, it is always the same Government and only the President of the Council has changed. The issue that is highlighted in a particular way, and on which I want to focus, is that of public debt that increased, in 2014 compared to 2013, by 67 billion. Just to highlight this aspect, today the public debt has reached 2,262 billion, 194 of which attributable to the current Government, that is, to Mr Renzi. Another aspect of the report is as follows: Perhaps some citizens have experienced the experience of the Finance Guard who has made some observations about their company and others have happened to be called by the Revenue Agency to have some explanations. It is a bit what the Court of Auditors does on the state budget, with the following comments, which are found in the report, so everyone can verify what I said): failure to carry out a public invitation to tender for the award of the concession of the exercise of horse betting; disbursement by the administration of the sum of millions of euro against the results of an unused project; failure to recover sums wrongly received by companies providing a service; failure to recover sums wrongly received by the former President of a foundation, and so on. These are the observations made by the Court of Auditors. There are several, but a "civil" state must put an end to this situation in order to prevent these comments from being made in the 2015 report. Those who are wrong must pay, because a simple citizen, when he is wrong, is called not only to pay, but also to do so in a disproportionate way. On the other hand, as regards the adjustment, Mr Vice-Minister, it is true that you were right about GDP developments, but you did not have so many other aspects, and particularly about public savings, which has decreased, or about the primary surplus, which has collapsed. This means that we are making deficits, which will still turn into further public debt: in fact, the use of the market to finance the state increases, and this exposes us not only to greater debt, but also to fluctuations in interest rates. It is true that the latter are low, but what if it will increase again, even a little, that famous and infamous spread? What will happen to our interests, which we have to pay with this huge and disproportionate public debt? The levels of parity are now very small: just a small overhang of the interest rate and again the scaffolding will collapse. Then there are these deviation points which also derive from two measures introduced by the Government in the law of stability and which we strongly dispute, namely reverse charge and split payment: the first, rejected by the European Union and, therefore, never entered into force, will determine at the end of the month the increase in excise duties on petrol for 750 million per year; the second, on the other hand, has resulted in a lower revenue than that quantified in the law of stability, so that in this case too we will have to find another way and other funds to compensate for forecast errors. I welcome the fact that Vice-Minister has said in this House that the safeguard clauses will certainly not be taken and that everything will be done to ensure that excise duties and VAT do not increase, but the problem is that the blanket is short. We do not want the local authorities to be cut once again, as has been done recently, which are no longer able to move forward. Gentlemen, talk to your mayors and hear what they say to you: talk to us once in a while. In this context, which - in our view - sees all the parameters deteriorated, it is precisely the failure of the creative measures invented by the Renzi Government to cash out. They hang just like a real sword of Damocles, carefully implied by the Minister of Economy, but it will be imposed for next year. Even here, I wonder how the government will do if, to the 1.4 billion that must be found by the end of the month, we add the 12 billion VAT and the decrease of the factor of the tax on the first house, which is another 4 billion. Our President, however, makes announcements on television during the summer. In his latest appearances on TV he, with complete confidence, announced his magical ability to abolish taxes. Leaving the hypocrisy behind, we remember who, a few months ago, imposed ex novo the agricultural IMU and then announced, the next day, that it would remove it. Gentlemen, Renzi's announcements are obviously a mockery and President Renzi is no longer even concerned with masking the absurdity of his statements. The government's game is very dangerous. Abolish taxation of any kind on the first house would cost EUR 4 billion and I don't know what could happen. Acting in this way means not seeing with foresight what can happen. Let's also think about the so famous spending review that everyone saw saying not to worry, as they would make cuts that would guarantee financial coverage. The Court of Auditors itself has now pointed out that it is difficult today to carry out the spending review. Renzi himself, also here, said that the effects of a possible spending review can only be seen in five years. And in the meantime, how do we do that? No problem, because the important thing is to appear and make the statement. Do you remember the story of the 80 euros? The much praised maneuver of the 80 euros was a beautiful operation of image that led to results. Too bad, however, that it brought only electoral results to the PD, because also here Renzi himself has declared - complaining, therefore, himself - that the maneuver did not have the desired effects. Mr President, all these beautiful things of image will still be a flop or will lead to an increase in debt, thus increasing the 2,262 million debt. Everyone is capable of doing image operations, so there is always someone else who pays and - as a matter of fact - in this case it will still be the citizens who have to pay for this. For these reasons, the North-League Group will vote strongly against the measures under consideration. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u31	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, already during the general debate this morning I had the opportunity to make some comments on the general state statement for 2014 and on the provision for the adjustment of the budget for 2015. I therefore refer you to this morning's considerations, taking advantage of the opportunity to reason for a moment on the next financial manoeuvre, starting from the results, even not particularly satisfactory, readable from the 2014 financial statements, which have also been reflected in the 2015 financial year. In particular - as I pointed out this morning too - we need to mark a change of pace, particularly in the Mezzogiorno. The measures of this last financial maneuver have shown a particular attention to the strong areas of the Country, the more industrialized ones, with a greater consistency of the levels of employment, where are found the more healthy enterprises and also the greater number of enterprises. Therefore, interventions such as those aimed at the payment of commercial debts of public administrations, the decontribution or the cutting of IRAP have also improved, consolidated and, to some extent, protected those areas of the country. Now it seems necessary and necessary to intervene in the Mezzogiorno of Italy, to carry out a rebalancing operation, to build the conditions so that investments can be developed and, above all, to improve the performance of economic activities, which are consistent with the productive vocations of Southern Italy and the islands. It is therefore a question of intervening on structural issues: for Sardinia I remember - for example - transport, energy or school dispersal, the impact of which is among the highest in Europe and the highest in Italy. We must also intervene with substantial structural measures, which change the conditions of difficulty, instead translating them into better possibilities and opportunities for development. I would therefore like to refer to what was said during the afternoon sitting, and I would like to remind you that public finance accounts are being settled not only by contracting waste, by reducing passive public expenditure and by recovering resources, including public resources, to be allocated as a result to investments or to the support of investments in the private economic system, but also by improving revenue. And when we reason about the balances and quote the trend of gross domestic product and its possible growth of 0.3, 0.4 or 0.7%, for this year, we have to do so by being aware that, in the last seven or eight years, we have lost more than ten points of GDP, that is, we have lost an enormous amount of resources and wealth in the country, we have reduced the incomes of our workers and their families in a way that is too low, and we have put at risk not only the social estate, but also the unity of our country itself. We have raised questions about the more or less positive development of the economy of the Centre-Nord Industrial and, in the meantime, we have also not said forgotten, but applied to worsen the living conditions of the Regions of the Mezzogiorno, all traveling around 20% of the unemployment rate, that is, where the worst performances of the period of the crisis are recorded, the collapse of the productive capacity of the Country and where the factories have closed. Despite the fact that at this moment there is no one in the government's benches, it must be remembered that unfortunately the disputes arising in the Mezzogiorno are almost all still to be resolved. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Uras, you're right. If the government is present in this House, I would like it to be in its proper place. URAS (Misto-SEL). I was just saying that the worst data are recorded in the Mezzogiorno. The disputes that have opened, especially in the industrial sector, in the southern part of the country are almost all without solution, while solutions have been found, even with merit from the Government, for other industrial realities in other parts of the country. So, this is a country, this is a united republic, one and indivisible, and it must remain united. But it is not a formal legal unit that serves: it is a substantial, economic and social unity, a real general political attention. I expect, beyond the proclamations and instead of a reduction in taxes that will affect only some (and above all some who are already well), a large and massive intervention of investments for the Mezzogiorno and the islands, which are those parts of the country that have been most affected by the crisis and that represent the border with the suffering of the whole of Europe. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u34	CHIAVAROLI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the People's Area will vote in favour of the two measures before the House today, the 2014 and 2015 accounts. We shall vote in favour of the hope, indeed I would like to say in the conviction, that these are the last documents in which we see variations mainly of negative sign, the result of an extraordinarily long economic crisis, of which we can finally see the end. Therefore, rather than focusing on the analysis of what has been done (work done extensively by the rapporteurs), we want to focus on what will be and which will see us engaged, by the end of the year, with the approval of the 2016 Stability Act. In order to grasp the shy recovery that can be seen, we are convinced that it is necessary to continue on the path we have taken, that of institutional and economic reforms, for which this legislature is characterized. On the other hand, our Group was born for this very reason, to bring Italy out of the crisis and not to interrupt the reform process begun with the Letta Government and continued with determination with the Renzi Government. We believe it is essential to pursue both institutional and economic reforms with conviction and determination. The institutional reforms, in fact, will finally give the country a system able to decide, and to do so in the time required by the epoch in which we live, putting an end to the bicameralism of equality, which we can no longer afford. For this reason, our Group will provide its full contribution and support for this process to reform the country's institutional architecture to the full. Another eighty conviction, determination and also great courage will be needed on economic reforms, because Italy must absolutely start again. This is why it is a priority not only to neutralize the safeguard clauses, as Deputy Minister Morando said, which would expect an increase in taxes and excise duties, but also to proceed with conviction to lower taxation, which has now reached unsustainable levels not only for businesses but also and above all for citizens. In particular, we are referring to taxation on the house. The house that must return to being a bene-refuge, a source of security and not of nightmares for Italian families; and then, indeed first, it is necessary to make a serious and decisive revision of the expenditure in order to eliminate waste and inefficiencies, and also the costs of politics, finally cutting down the ax of the cuts on the thousands of participating societies that are now an unacceptable and unbearable burden. Moreover - this will be our commitment to the law of stability - we need a real plan for the family, a family act, as we have defined it, because the family, and not - let me say - civil unions, is the pillar of our society. The family is the promoter of social development and well-being, but also the place where to cultivate the future, the desire for fatherhood and motherhood. The Italian one is one of the lowest birth rates in developed countries and this must not leave us indifferent. That is why we will fight for measures in the law of stability to support the family, through favorable tax treatment for families with dependent children and dependent parents, with specific measures to support the birth and reconciliation of living and working times, and facilities for young couples (e.g. for rentals). I mean, a plan for the family, which means a plan for the future. This will be the commitment that we assure from now on and for these reasons we will vote in favour of these documents, which are prodromic for the work that awaits us, for which our Group accepts responsibility and commitment so that we can overcome the great challenge that awaits us, namely to bring Italy back on the path of growth and development. We're convinced we're gonna win it. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u37	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, in recent years the Berlusconi Government has governed us first, which, with its centre-right, throughout its administration, has increased current expenditure by 206 billion and taxes by 156; the Prodi Government, from 2006 to 2008, which has increased public expenditure by 60 billion and taxes by 52; the Monti Government, which, even he, managed to increase expenditure by 8 billion and taxes by 20 and also the Government Letta increased current expenditure by 11 billion and taxes by 12. This is the report of the last few years. After Monti and Letta, we finally reach the government of the young Premier. According to the bill n. 2008 today at our examination - and no owl has written it, but it has signed Padoan - it turns out that, compared to 2013, therefore not already compared to forecasts that we know to be always doing it, the final expenses have gone from 582 to 603 billion; the revenues from 819 to 840 billion; the total expenses from 753 to 811 billion; the net balance to be financed goes from minus 28 to minus 53. Then we see the adjustment in 2015: the final expenses go from 603 to 611 billion while the total expenses from 811 to 838; the primary surplus is further reduced by 23.5 billion. According to the Court of Auditors the most worrying aspect is that gross fixed capital formation fell by 16% in the year of Renzi Government. Yet we will all remember the unlock Italy. There was a splendid slide that boasted 43 billion blocked investments that would finally be broken down: only the oil lobbies are distributed; otherwise, we had a decline. Then we had -18 percent fewer commitments in the Cohesion and Development Fund, which is mainly for the less-favoured regions of the South. However, when the Svimez report arrives, the Renzi Government realizes that there is more than a third of Italy that has not been forgotten: I thought it had forgotten it, but when last year's law of stability arrived I realized that the intention was precisely to plunder it. Now it makes me laugh to watch and listen to the Premier, and Confindustria - who does his work of pressure - talk about restoring the decontribution at least for the South. This could be grotesque and picturesque, except that such a law was already there. I am referring to Law 407 of 1990. It has been repealed to cash in with the looting of the cohesion and development funds and then re-proposed as the great novelty in the new law of stability. Unfortunately, instead of being structural, it will again be a commercial: it will last about a year, if it will suit us. Exactly as they did with the minima regime. Do you remember the slide of the law of stability? It was promised to reduce taxes to 15%, but we were at 5 with Monti. Then came the so-called thousand extensions, which then went back, because this is always the case. The same was done with the spending review. When Renzi settled in February 2014, one of the most interesting slides was the one with 32 billion cuts already made. They should have used 10 of these billions for the EUR 80, but we still have to pay them with the safeguard clause that will take place in a few days for the reverse because everything had been put to cover the EUR 80. Another ten billion were needed to cut IRAP by 10 percent, a maneuver that later re-neededed into last year's law of stability to make another promise that we will see the effects - perhaps - in 2016. Those who account for companies in the South know that, in fact, that relief to the South was already there. Therefore, removing that work component from the IRAP calculation will not be a relief for the South, but rather an increase. It would be interesting to see the Premier go down to Sicily, Campania, Calabria and my Puglia to bring a clear slide in which he also explains everything he took away and snatched to the South. That is why we shall vote against it. It is not because we always want to go against it; it is not because we were not in favour of the EUR 80 if we had not transferred all the tax commitment to other people or to the same with the increase of taxes on the house, which now promises to remove. But I wonder: since TOSAP and TARSU will not be put in the local tax, what do we put in the same? Do we put the increased IMU on sheds and shops? However, I would like to remind you that companies can at least be deduced from TASI. It's not like that with the IMU. They only deduce it for 20%. You're making a good joke. Who knows by which slides will be seasoned. The entrepreneur will only be aware of this when April or May arrives. We hope that is not the case. We also hope that the safeguard clauses will not only be postponed because the economy is made up of security, optimism, truth and seriousness, things which, unfortunately, this Government does not have. Probably in the government and in the majority there are people who know these things, but perhaps they behave like Mrs Cirinna, who votes against herself, and despite the discipline of the party differs a lot from the discipline of the Premier's propaganda, which when he goes on television says anything else. Therefore, the 5 Star Movement unfortunately, with regret, is forced to say again no to how you spend money. Those 67 billion new public debt could serve to abrogate IRAP for small and micro enterprises or to introduce citizenship income - and I am sure of what I say. Instead of raising consumption by 80 euros, these manoeuvres would have given the economy a boost. Probably, instead of continuing to choke the Italians and despite all having ever lower primary leftovers, at this point we would feel better. The justifications aren't good enough. We now object that from Europe we are told that the "80 euros" are expenditure instead of a lower income; but expenditure has increased well beyond 10 billion euros: we must be precise in this too. We really have very little more to say. What we have left to suggest is to listen to the voice of Parliament and also of the 5 Star Movement. We heard the premier shout that there are no more friends of friends; but then, on different levels and for different conditions, arrives Marino or arrives Azzollini: indeed he is a friend of a friend. Yet it is always about money, strictly public, that goes away and that anyway, then, they go to be part of these beautiful accounts. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u40	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will immediately say that these two documents cannot be voted on by anyone who has simply read the same reports that we have heard from the majority in the Budget Committee. The report says that all balances show a deterioration compared to the results achieved in 2013. If we want to give some details, the net balance to be financed from the state budget has deteriorated by 24.8 billion; the current balance shows a worsening compared to the previous year; the recourse to the market, idem; the same total expenditure commitments; current expenditure has increased; the total expenditure in 2014 exceeded the fateful threshold of 800 billion euros. If we add the expected deterioration in 2015, we go to 838 billion euros of total spending. It's a good thing it was supposed to be years of spending savings! It's a good thing it was meant to be the season of the renewal of the way to manage public finances! But even from this point of view, that is, from the point of view of the quality of expenditure, the deterioration is even more serious, not only because the negative voices of the state budget have dramatically increased, but also because of how these amounts have been spent. There is a judgment of the Court of Auditors which is absolutely terrifying. The so-called judgment of equalization by the Court of Auditors detects irregularities in terms of the discrepancy between the balance sheet items and their amounts compared to those resulting from the accounts of the individual administrations; notes that in the result of the residues there are amounts not deriving from accounting records, but calculated as the difference between the total of the residues collected and the amount of the sums remaining to be paid at the end of the financial year 2013; idem in the payment of the residues; on the expenditure side, there are discrepancies in the changes in some places of non-financial activities; omitted variations; omitted entries; failure to update the values entered; incorrect registration of financial activities. In short, there is a whole series of criticalities and irregularities that, if you who have so much rigour in examining the laws for fake in the budget applied it to the budget drawn up by this Government, I think you should draw conclusions that are certainly much heavier than merely a negative political judgment. Therefore, in essence, the figures already in themselves condemn the result of this that was to be the Government of the reforms, the Government of the change, the Government of the turning point. Dramatically they say that this government is not in a position to really impress a new trend on the way to manage public spending and above all it is not able to resist the temptation to increase it. Let us consider one particular point: we are in the context of an international situation which could not be more favourable than this. For some years now interest rates have been at a minimum, the famous spread has largely decreased and nevertheless the savings on interest (which is not that striking figure as we wanted to make clear when spreads had higher figures) is 7,7 billion in the 2015 adjustment and is entirely frustrated by an increase of 27 billion of current expenditure, therefore four times compared to the savings due to the international economic situation. We also have a significant decrease in the price of oil, so the balance of payments also benefits from this; we have a whole series of international conditions that should revive the economy of our country and the public accounts, but we always remain taillight, both when the global economy gets worse and when it improves. This happens because a Government, which up to now has experienced announcements, has entered the reporting season, those that we are examining (as happens, as often coincide also literally things), and the reporting season states that this Government is not at all capable of holding the fate of the country. Senator Lezzi and Senator Comaroli have highlighted a whole series of contradictions; we could fill with contradictions, of the going and coming, of taxes that come and go, of which the decrease or suppression is announced. It is truly a bailamme of mental confusion that unfortunately is added to the bailamme of economic confusion. And to think that what is in office is the government that had to make the big reforms to reduce public spending, instead has put in place - and we will live it further in the coming weeks - a mechanism of internal and external conflict to the parties that everything can solve except the problems of public spending. The reform of the regions and their expenditure are not addressed. A short time ago, colleagues, we greeted, as if we were in the psychological conditions of the gladiators in the arena, the representatives of the French Senate; We have said: "Morituri te salutant" to those who will survive, because that is a nation absolutely aware of its traditions and its future and does not need to abolish Rooms in order to improve its own conditions. From 1 January 2016 France will have 12 Regions against the current 24; moreover, since we always tend to follow the external examples (when it suits us), Denmark will not have Regions from 1 January 2016: it has abolished all intermediate entities between municipalities and the State. On the other hand, we are not able to intervene on a fabric of 21 regions that are the owners of the greatest waste in Italian public spending. They are the ones that have led to the increase in public spending. We forced the municipalities to reduce it. We have forced many bodies to reduce it, naturally cutting horizontally, without entering into the discretion of a wise and targeted spending, while other nations have realized that the public apparatus cannot maintain conditions of elephantia that weigh on citizens, constantly forced to see the tax burden increase. When, in real reforms, we enter these areas, only then will we be able to say that we really want to reform and make our state more modern. But the regional political class now dominates the political scene and also dominates this Parliament, so much so that today, after having listened for years to invective against the double office and against the positions of dual presence in the Municipalities, with parliamentarians who became mayors and who were put on the index, now we, in the Constitution, decide that the double assignment must be held in our country, giving the regional councillors the opportunity to become senators as well. As you can see, therefore, it is a government that does not know exactly where to start and has only one word: reform. And this reform, as long as it is such, does not matter what content it contains and what content it transfers to the Italian society: provided it is reform. And with this we will really consolidate a dramatically negative trend of our public accounts. We are going to consolidate the most wasteful political class among all the various institutions. Just now I listened to Senator Chiavaroli throw invectives against the participants. But if we do not reduce the number of institutions (in this case the Regions) we will never be able to reduce the number of their participants either. For each Region, for every public service it renders, there is one shareholder. Then that is the cancer on which we must intervene, that of the elephantia of the institutional apparatuses of our country. The figures are dramatically clear, they are unequivocal and condemn this Government to the resounding failure (and unfortunately tragically damaging to Italian citizens) of an increase in public spending, an increase in public debt and, unfortunately, beyond good intentions, also soon of an increase in taxation on the citizens of this country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u43	SANTINI (PD). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the reporting and adjustment of the public budget is an important step in the budgetary cycle in which we examine the state of our finances. On this occasion, they confirm to all of us and our fellow citizens that Italy has the public accounts in order and an economy finally recovering after years of decline. It must be said immediately, in relation to this and the worsening of the indicators reported by many interventions, that the explanations given, in the intervention of Deputy Minister Morando, of the dynamics of the crisis that, contrary to the forecasts of the previous Government, has prolonged also in 2014. Despite not having solved all the problems, the country is in a position to look to the future now with greater confidence and awareness of being able to further improve its fundamentals. On the public finance front, the 2015 settlement confirms that the country is healthy. The public deficit is under control and the primary surplus is among the best among the Member States of the European Union. The net balance to be financed, for the part of the competence, is in improvement compared to the forecasts of last December. The revenue and final expenditure, although rising compared to the initial forecasts, show positive signs in particular on the side of certain items relating to tax revenue, on the side of capital expenditure and, above all, on the development of interest expenditure with a positive balance of EUR 7.4 billion in terms of competence. We are now in a position to present ourselves in the European and international institutional fora with a sound, credible and capable of contributing to the stability of international financial markets. But the most positive figure these days, which is going to strengthen the results achieved in the field of public finance, is that the national economy, after years of recession, is restarting towards economic recovery, the growth of consumption and employment. ISTAT data released in recent days are comforting. Asking to be able to deliver the text of my speech, I only mention the fact that 0.7% growth has already been achieved this year compared to 2014, which was the subject of many forecasts also made in the debate by many observers. Consumption growth was positive, the labour market improved sharply and inflation was also stable. Faced with these data, the problem we now have is to imagine a law of stability that can look to the future with the possibility of restarting growth very strongly. For this reason, the government's agenda must focus on the engines of growth, starting with the reduction of taxation (a very strong commitment), the decommissioning of safeguard clauses, the fight against social inequalities, the reactivation of public and private investments (as shown by some investments already made on the school and how the interventions planned on the South and in general on investments will demonstrate), the fight against corruption and tax evasion, the simplification of the country. We do not start from scratch, and the results achieved so far are there to demonstrate this: Parliament has already adopted important measures in recent months that will have an impact on the economy, and much will be done with the next Stability Act. So we need to speed up: this is the lesson we need to learn from the 2015 adjustment and we need to optimize the results that ISTAT has given us. Reforms still under discussion need to be implemented very quickly and incisively, and in this way the issues of growth, debt reduction and all those positive voices that we need to improve can be consolidated even more strongly in 2016. In this way Italy will regain the confidence and hope that are indispensable to give a concrete boost to the growth and economic recovery in place. For these reasons, we in the Democratic Party will vote for both the statement and the settlement. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u44	The Presidency authorizes you to attach the full text of your speech to the Minutes of the sitting. I briefly suspend the sitting until President Grasso arrives to preside over the proceedings. (The sitting was suspended at 18.11 a.m. and resumed at 18.12 p.m.) The sitting was resumed. We shall therefore proceed to the final votes on draft law Nos. 2008 and 2009. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the voting by simultaneous ballot of the bill n. 2008, as a whole, with annexes 1 and 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the voting by simultaneous ballot of the bill no. 2009, as a whole, with the annexed tables. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u47	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I believe that the order of business now includes some ratifications of international agreements, but in view of the absence of President Casini we ask that this item on the agenda be postponed to tomorrow, of course if colleagues agree. I believe that this is compatible with our timetable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is If no comments are made, this remains the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u48	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-09-LEG17-Senato-sed-501.ana.u49	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 10 September, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.15 a.m.
