ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u8	The Conference of Leaders adopted changes to the current timetable by a majority. In relation to the progress of work on the draft law on corruption, the examination will continue next week with the understanding that explanations of vote will take place on Wednesday 1 April, starting at 6 p.m. To this end, the hours of the sittings have been adjusted and the Presidency has been authorised to harmonise the speaking time. During the afternoon session on Thursday 2 April, the draft law on the reorganisation of public administrations will begin to be examined. At the same sitting, the Council's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities on the authorisation of ministerial offences against former Minister Matteoli will be placed on the agenda, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 135-a of the Rules of Procedure. The sitting was therefore set at 7 p.m. for the sole purpose of concluding any voting operations as a result of this procedure. The other topics already included in the timetable of proceedings remain confirmed. During the afternoon session of tomorrow's question time, the Minister for Simplification and Public Administration will answer questions on the legal status of civil servants and reform of management, as well as on the reorganization of offices and functions of public administrations.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u9	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 19, 657, 711, 810, 846, 847, 851 and 868, in the unified text proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u10	Mr President, I do not think it can be denied that there is a clear link between illegality and economic crisis, between crime and the world of work. One example: there are 1,700 companies seized from crime. What happens to the workers? In Italy it is estimated that about 30% of GDP is in black. [[Brusio]] I am sorry, Mr President, but I cannot speak under these conditions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u11	I pray to those who have no interest in the discussion of moving away.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u12	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). We prefer the empty Chamber to the trouble. I was saying, in Italy it is estimated that about 30% of GDP is in black. Almost 50% of it is the result of organized crime. The rest is the result of tax evasion estimated at between 120 and 180 billion. These are frightening figures which, in fact, condemn our country to economic and social decline. Imagine how long it would have been possible to approve and finance, with the proceeds of evasion and corruption, the law on guaranteed minimum income, which we, together with others, have tabled in Parliament for a long time, if only a real fight against evasion and, therefore, corruption. On the contrary, it proves once again to be weak with the strong and strong with the weak and continue to be fierce against the workers, destroying democracy and the dignity of the workplace. The last is microchips to boots, on which this House has not uttered a single word. It's a shame. Remote controls and massacred working rhythms: if this is modernity, we prefer the past. For example, the laws governing procurement must be re-established, because that is where the mechanisms that can create illegality are triggered and the black capital is concentrated, which, by the way, are not even re-patriated in production, but are transferred to tax havens. The breakdown and fragmentation of work and its production cycle must be combated, which do not even allow workers to know who they are working for, as is the case in contracts and transfers of companies. [[Brusio]] It's really hard to talk like that. These laws allow the entrepreneur to take away all responsibility for the worker he uses in his production cycle, without any limit, conditions or rules. At the end of the nineteenth century - we are in 1890, other than reformism - the legislator of the epoch, of liberal extraction, in imposing on entrepreneurs the obligation of insurance against accidents at work, had established that the enterprise that organizes, which benefits and involves human work in its own activity cannot be disinterested by the worker, but must be responsible for what it uses. Today the entrepreneur no longer has this responsibility, thanks precisely to a discipline of the job that favors its disengagement, and then contracts, subcontracting, the chain of the sub-supplyes, all often in the shadow of the lawlessness and the corruption. Corruption also has devastating effects on work, because the illegal system makes its effects felt in healthy companies in terms of unfair competition, also in relation to the fact that they, through illegal practices, acquire job opportunities, are very often lacking both on the pay side and on working conditions. We are talking about poor wages, no social security contributions, no protection and zero security: is this what you call modernity? Therefore, combating corruption and starting again from legality is primarily a commitment of the legislator, who must not in any way and without ambiguity favour illegal practices. If politics wanted to regain its role - but I fear this will never be the case - this would be the right opportunity. Unfortunately, however, Mr President, once again, we see that interest reigns supreme.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u14	Mr President, I would just like to draw the Minister's and the House's attention to some of the untrue circumstances that have been circulating during this period. Has there been a delay in discussing this law? No: on May 22, 2014, less than a year and a half after the adoption of the Severino law - this is, therefore, the anti-corruption law, which we have all voted on, with increased penalties - we had already given the deadline for amendments. Subsequently, with amendments by the rapporteurs and the Government, we have managed to reach this point three times. Question: Is corruption fought with increased penalties? I feel like I'm saying no out loud. Since the era of Clean Hands, we who operated at that time - President Grasso will remember - pointed out that we had succeeded, with penalties quite different from those approved by the Severino law, lower, to do the trials for corruption, phenomenon that disfigured our economy and our country system. We must realise that there is nothing that can pollute society more than corruption, not so much from the point of view of bribes, but from the point of view of activity that may not lead to economic utility. We have increased our penalties in 2012 and we are increasing them again: what are we going to do in two years' time, Mr President and Minister? If there was any corruption, would we get to life? I think that's pretty wrong. I've been working on this subject for a long time. What is the reason, Minister? I very much appreciated your statements yesterday, after what was approved in the House in the matter of prescription. Why did I appreciate that? In this House and in the Commission, we have repeatedly pointed out that it was not possible to take account of increases in penalties which did not correspond to the sanctioning system, as they altered it. Let me give you an example: I found 63 articles in the penal code that show that there is no consistency in the new discipline you have created. Let us take Article 499, "Destruction of raw materials or agricultural or industrial products or means of production": "Whoever (...) causes serious damage to national production or reduces to a significant extent goods of common or large consumption is punished with imprisonment from three to twelve years" and it is the same penalty that we are going to introduce today - indeed, it is lower - for the crime referred to in Article 319-b. Do you realize, then, schizophrenia? The amendments of Forza Italia, at least those I have signed, do not affect the increase in maximum penalty. Do you know why? The Deputy Minister can confirm this: despite having made a point in the Commission in making the maximum penalties adequate, we did not want to touch them, because it is his responsibility. The unfortunate choice of framing the measure last Thursday did not allow us to have the deadline, until yesterday, to make the amendments. Therefore, not knowing what was voted on in the House, we chose the thesis will choose the Minister and we only proposed the reduction of the minimum penalties. For maximum penalties, how can I argue if I find myself, having to join the two increases to twenty-one and a half years or twenty-eight years and a half for some crimes, that if today had been this law, in 2015 we would have a subject of clean Hands that would be acquitted after twenty-five and twenty-eight years. Do you realize the absurdity? I appreciate what the Minister did in the statute of limitations law, where he finally introduced a principle that was proper to the Berlusconi Government - and the parent of that time, Anna Finocchiaro, will remember it - by transforming what was the end of the short process in the term in which the appeal and the cassation process must be celebrated. Can we understand these rules? We want to fight together. I have tabled a number of amendments and four tabled by Mr Forza Italia and myself have already been accepted. However, there were others who were concerned with prevention, on which I heard that we would have thought further in this House. I hope that this House will be right. I heard from the Deputy Minister that the Anti-Corruption Authority would carry out a management activity, but that is not the case: in the law that we approved in 2012 the Anti-Corruption Authority orders the destruction of acts that do not correspond to transparency. I ask you: in the event that the order is not respected, what must the Anti-Corruption Authority do? Going to the TAR? Or, with the permission of the Council of Ministers, can you replace those acts? Do we really want to make corruption a phenomenon relegated to a situation of minimal importance? And to do this, the norm must be such as to be perceived as just and fair. President Grasso, I do not have to teach you anything, but raising penalties is not a criminal system that is based on the rules of the Constitution, nor is it based on an efficient system of deterrents. Deterrence comes first of all from a rule that is well adequate and fits into the system and then from the speed of the process and the imposition of the sentence. The Minister, thank God, acknowledged in the Commission that, in crimes against public administration, the percentage of prescriptions is only 3% and the statistical data - not because of the Minister - do not allow to give a parcel reading of that 3%, but you know better than I do that it will most likely concern less serious facts. When it is said that it takes time to find out some facts, I would like a statistical data or any data that will allow us to assess how many facts are not discovered or discovered late. It's not like that. In the matter of crimes against the public administration, our judiciary has done everything that could be done in the right time. Why aren't the crimes prescribed for clean hands, Mr. President? Why do some surroundings succeed in celebrating trials in those times? If we did not have confidence in these times, why did the Minister, in the House, introduce - with which, moreover, I agree - into the provision on the prescription two years for appeal and one for Cassation, even not considering the timing for the filing of judgments? So, do we realize that we need to harmonize? You said that yesterday, Minister, but who does? Just as yesterday the House debated a rule ignoring what was happening in the Senate, we too are discussing today, with amendments already tabled, after the statute of limitations was approved in the House. Do you realize that we do schizophrenic work? How to recover? Mr Minister, only you can recover: since we are going to Wednesday for closure, make corrections. The questions referred for a preliminary ruling on constitutionality which I tabled this morning have a sacrosanct basis and, as a matter of fact, you were so convinced that your amendment to Article 2621 of the Criminal Code contained the criminality thresholds; it was removed after a majority meeting which gave incorrect indications. The judgment of the Constitutional Court to which I referred refers to the term "relevant measure" in tax matters. In the event of tax evasion, the Constitutional Court has rightly said that the assessment refers to the judge. If here the relevant person becomes a connotation of what the offence must be, will it be a constitutive element of the case - as the rapporteur and the Government have said - or a condition of punishableness? In the first case, we affect Article 25, second paragraph, of the Constitution; in the second case, we affect the principle of equality, as referred to in the first paragraph of Article 3. I'm told to take off the relevant thing, because small things aren't relevant. Well, then there is a band of punishableness that makes it possible to say, unlike the attenuating referred to in Article 2621-a, in which we speak of small-scale facts. So, if the fact is mild, it has that sanction. Are we going to say what the fact is that this is not a criminal offence? I have not proposed them again, even though the criminality thresholds have been confirmed and comforted by the European Court of Justice and our Constitutional Court. I have changed the current ones in reduction, hoping at a time of general rethinking, because we are implementing a rule that will have no effect in the fight against corruption, but will result in disasters. I hope that that plan to which Cantone refers, and which is a development of those prevention rules that were included in the 2012 law, may be for some part remodulated, otherwise we do not eliminate corruption. In fact, the penalties, which have always increased, did not cause a phenomenon to be interrupted that must be fought with intelligence and with the effective will to no longer allow an alteration of the par conditio in the management of the enterprises and the commercial activity. How does a foreign company, Minister, come to Italy and know that it has been twenty years since we, when we talk about fraud in the budget, have been added to the norm, even if it is the subject of assessments? You have said that and you know better than I that, when a law does not repeat the same discipline, at least from the point of view of the case, it is a change. It is clear, however, that, as the rapporteur correctly said in the Commission, these must be understood and the case law must be interpreted. Do you realize, Mr. President? You can teach me this: it is not possible for us to leave the supplementary interpretation of the rule to the case law: this would mean leaving foreign companies the power to decide on our criminal system. And we cannot afford it if we want - on the one hand - to really combat corruption and - on the other hand - to promote that economic growth of companies, which alone can guarantee those who least have the opportunity to rise from a situation of real degradation in which it has been reduced. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u16	Mr President, like you, I am withdrawn from the meeting organized by the Anti-Mafia Commission in the House, to which the Head of State also attended, which has valued the role of the Anti-Mafia Directorates throughout the national territory in the fight against criminal organizations. Introduced the afternoon session, today Fr Ciotti repeated one thing he often says: "Corruption and organised crime are two sides of the same coin." They are not the same, but corruption certainly makes the economy and society more permeable to organised crime. Of course, corruption is also an additional opportunity for mafias, a tool that allows mafias to penetrate and condition public institutions and apparatus. (17.02) (Following MIRABELLI). Recent investigations confirm that, unfortunately, corruption is a widespread evil in our country, involving politics, public apparatus, businesses, and not just criminal organizations. Corruption is an evil that affects the economy by distorting its principles of free competition, which leads to rewarding lawlessness and not merit. The economic dimensions of corruption are a phenomenon terribly rooted in our country, which takes away resources and opportunities from citizens, healthy businesses, young people, a system in which those who innovate are penalized rather than rewarded. Fighting corruption and mafias is a priority on which a good part of the future of our country is played, the same possibility to return to growth, to rebuild confidence in the possibility of living in a country where words like rules, merit and legality return to guiding coexistence. This Parliament has already done important things in this parliamentary term. I understand that he makes fun of many telling about real estate institutions, imbeciles, unable to fight mafia and corruption, but that's not the case. The introduction of the exchange vote crime (votes in exchange for favors), in accordance with article 416-b of the penal code, and the crime of autocycling, the realization of the National Anti-corruption Authority entrusted to Raffaele Cantone, unanimously recognized as the most effective initiative carried out in this country against corruption: these are facts and have been voted in this Assembly. I think it would be important for us all to claim it, also because - look - continue to represent a desperate picture, in which nothing serves to avoid an inexorable decline, a cynical and cheating destiny, which condemns this country to corruption and lawlessness, is a gift to those who want to criminalize. If we accept the idea that nothing is needed, nothing is enough, if we do not value what we do, but choose to complain, we spread the idea that corruption is an incurable disease in this country and that we are condemned to live with it: it is not so. This law, the one we are debating today, is another step in the right direction, another useful tool against corruption. Probably more will be needed, from the reform of the procurement law to the reform of the prescription. But this law responds effectively to a series of regulatory gaps that have weakened the law enforcement action and the deterrent of the judiciary and the state. It responds to the failures created in 2002 by the abolition, in fact, of the fake in the budget. Senator Caliendo, I believe in your renewed will to fight corruption. I believe, however, that this will must also be expressed by self-criticizing those facts, by the choice of having effectively abolished the false in the budget, which has made it less difficult for crime to obtain money to pay for the corrupt. This bill re-introduces the fake into the balance sheet, providing for penalties from three to eight years for the corrupt directors of listed companies, but above all by reintroduction of the office procedure. Again, we intervene on the penalties that will punish the corrupt, the corrupt, the concussive and the concussors, creating the conditions to put an end to the feeling of substantial impunity that is seen that only a few dozen condemned for corruption effectively serve the penalties in prison in this country. This is not a punitive obsession, but I think it will tighten the pain to ensure that those who corrupt or corrupt the prison sentence will certainly be a deterrent and it will be a choice that will do justice to the idea that for the powerful there are treatments other than those reserved for the other condemned. But the law we are debating is not limited to tightening up the penalties; this is important but it would not be enough if - as they are - useful instruments were not provided for in order to hit corruption. First of all, we encourage those who denounce, guaranteeing a discount of punishment to those who, guilty of corruption, choose to collaborate, help to identify the other responsible, to recover the money and the utility transferred, to avoid further episodes of malpractice. Secondly, further powers and new prerogatives are given to the National Anti-Corruption Authority (NAAC), providing that any relevant news should be reported by the administrative judges to the ANAC, and extending the types of law enforcement submitted to the Authority's scrutiny. I started my speech by associating the fight against corruption with the fight against mafias. I conclude in the same way, by enhancing another important rule contained in this bill: Article 4, which tightens up all the penalties provided for in article 416- bis of the penal code for the mob association and extends them also for foreign associations. It is important because with this choice we solve a problem that often the anti-Mafia magistrates have placed us and that causes the mob bosses arrested, having delegated the fine crimes to others, with the abbreviated rite and only the crime of mob association contested to them, return after a few years in the territory to command. In this case, Senator Caliendo, the increase of the penalties not only serves, but is necessary. With this rule we give a further blow to the mafias and confirm that in this country there is a state, a Parliament, institutions that have chosen to fight lawlessness, crime and mafias, and that to do so work to improve the rules more and more, to make prevention more effective, to make the fight against mafias and corruption stronger. Can you do more? Can it be better? Maybe, maybe; we will. But this must not hide that we are now debating an important, long-awaited measure, desired by my party, by the PD, by this majority, but that I hope has a broad consensus that shows the Italians that against mafias and against corruption Parliament, political forces, institutions are united and determined. This is the scariest thing for the corrupt and the mobsters. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u17	I address the greetings of the entire Assembly to the students and students of the Liceo di Scienze Humani (Liceo di Scienze Humani) (Fabio Besta) in Milan. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u18	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, corruption is now a real brake on economics and development. It is not only worrying the phenomenon itself, but the widespread perception, both in Italy and abroad, that it has. I would like to remind you that 97% of Italians believe that corruption is a widely present practice, and that about 90%, always of Italian citizens, are convinced that corruption constitutes, as supported by the Confindustria Study Centre (and not by Occupy Wall Street) a ballast for development, as we said. Corruption generates the well-being of a few against the well-being of all; it renders social elevator useless; it mortifies meritocracy; it compromises or worsens the quality of services to citizens and promotes the resignation that is at the origin of the brain drain. It is right to ask ourselves in this House about the legal provision we are examining, but I think it is equally right to address such a complex issue, even upstream, in the logic of the transmission of values and, therefore, through the dynamics of teaching. Malala Yousafzai, the 17-year-old Pakistani awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, significantly approached in her speech an innocent child who died in war with an empty class and said: This award isn't just for me. It's for forgotten children who want an education. It is for the frightened children who want peace. It is for children without voice who want change. I would like to paraphrase Malala's words in this House and say that we are here to give a voice to those who want a change thinking about the future of our children and our young people. Since, when we talk about the future, we think of our children, who will one day be adults and constitute the community of the future, we believe that the fight against corruption must also be carried out through the transmission of those values and memory that are able to offer school, teaching and culture, understood not as a set of notions that are often destined to remain unused in some empty drawer of our memory, but that must instead be a compass, inevitably imperfect and consciously not dogmatic, nor bearer of abstract morals with which to try to orient oneself in the complicated labyrinth of collectivity and contemporaneity. Yesterday, Minister Giannini reiterated in the hearing that the training offer will be enriched with the so-called teaching of respect for legality by putting into system a path that today is traced by the spontaneous initiative of the schools. Very well, we are pleased and above all we hope that we have not listened to the usual commercial as a teleseller and that instead, within the bill on the school, there is really an initiative that puts the cultivation and development of respect for the legality within our schools. In conclusion, I recall again Malala's words which, in her speech to the United Nations and Oslo for the Nobel Peace Prize, supported one very true thing: A child, a teacher, a pen and a book can change the world. The fight against corruption and the economic and civil impoverishment of this country is fought by recognizing and transmitting from primary school onwards those values that are the basis of progress and knowledge. We fight armed with revolutionary weapons; word and study, and with concepts such as honesty, responsibility, inclusion and, above all, awareness. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u21	Madam President, I shall begin by repeating words which are not mine: The fight against mafia and corruption are top priorities. Corruption has reached an unacceptable level. It devours resources that could be allocated to citizens. It prevents the correct explanation of market rules. It favors the consorteries and penalizes honest and capable. The current Pontiff, Francis, (...) used harsh words against the corrupt: "Men of good manners, but of bad habits." President Sergio Mattarella, who has certainly been able to express a widespread feeling in our society and has indicated to Parliament what should be the priority of this parliamentary term. Instead, we have waited seven hundred and thirty days to bring the bill against corruption to the Chamber. Instead, we have talked about other priorities, which were perhaps not so important and urgent (I refer in particular to constitutional reforms, which you know and which I do not return to). With regard to corruption, I too listened to Luigi Ciotti in the Anti-Mafia Parliamentary Commission a while ago, and I followed the great demonstration in Bologna. The words of Luigi Ciotti I would like to quote them, because they are a little heavier than those I heard evoked earlier by a colleague. Luigi Ciotti said: Corruption is the matrix of the mob system, its outpost, the basis of mafia. The prosecutors of Rome have explained to us, about Mafia Capitale, that the mafias are now formed in an original and original way. So, we have a new genesis and a metastasis that is no longer controlled by the Mafia phenomenon, which passes by the fact that we have not fought corruption for twenty years. What, then, is the scope and context in which new mafias can be formed on the basis of a corruptive relationship? Let us make it clear that the first element is the economic crisis. Public spending is less generous than in the past and the demand for it often uses emergency and large-scale work. The second element is the enormous amount of rules and Manzoni screams with which we have hidden for twenty years our inability to conduct a real fight against corruption after clean Hands. Today the auctions are made to the maximum decrease. Today anti-mafia certificates are produced in great quantity, but behind all this there is often an agreement between corrupt and corruptor, between impresario and politician, because it is well known that the auction to the maximum decrease will only serve to raise the costs later. The two contractors know this and manage a relationship that is not only corruptive, but is properly to be defined as mafia. In this regard, it is very important what Luigi Ciotti says: let's stop bragging. Let's stop considering anti-mafia as a label to be pulled out at the propitious occasion. Let's stop talking about education to legality (and to Luigi Ciotti weighs this, because of education to legality in another age spoke the bishops and then the Pope), because legality, without social justice, does not exist. I therefore believe that the first step on the part of politics is not to put your head in the sand like the ostrich and therefore accept the responsibilities that are yours. I am very clear that the debate over the last few days has been largely unsatisfactory. Minister Lupi would resign because he had recommended his son and because perhaps his son had accepted a gift. But that is not the reason, my fellow senators: Mr Lupi has resigned because he has been careless in this House to defend a character like Incalza from the right criticism of the opposition. Minister Lupi resigned because he was disloyal to the Government when he wrote to him that he was willing to resign in order to save that structure which is now the subject of the attention of the judicial authority. What else do you want from a minister to resign? What does it matter to you how judicial inquiry goes? This is justiceism. Hairy guaranteeing is also a form of justiceism. Let's face it, he had to resign. I am also sorry that I did not appreciate the President-in-Office's speech when he said that the inquisitive Subsecretaries should not be discharged for a guarantee notice. I am against a policy that is taking the initiative of the judiciary, but politics, if it does not want to fight corruption for fake, must anticipate the judiciary. I say then that when the alleged crime, unproved, concerns facts that create alarm in society, such as corruption and distorted public money for private use, resignations are appropriate. Of course, that politician can then prove absolutely innocent and then his career will be broken; but how many times, ladies and gentlemen, have we said that politics is a service and not a career? The career of that politician may have stopped, but he has rendered an important service to the nation and, in particular, to the attempt to reconcile the country's feeling to the practice of the elect. I want to conclude my speech by saying that the bill that comes to our examination is the result of so much attention and so many compromises and provides for a reasonable hardening of the penalties - and therefore I will vote for it - even if in principle I do not agree that it is necessary to increase the penalties, as a fundamental element in combating corruption. In particular, I want to say this to my friend Lumia: when it comes to increasing the pains for the mobsters, I find it a bit funny. Forty years ago, someone I loved very much said: "Look at the fact that criminal organizations are only the emerging part of the iceberg: what lies below is corruption and political-mafia mediation." Taking it out then always with the usual and loading them with life sentences, it absolutely does not mean really fighting the mafia. However, it seems to me that this law is a good balance and that is why I shall vote for it, but I would ask the House for more general attention and debate. I see Minister Orlando present and thank him: I know how heavy the mediation he has done must have been, but frankly there are things that offend me. To say that we will change the law to the Senate, after claiming that bicameralism is the most serious fault of the country, seems to me a statement that, at this moment, I would have spared myself: I say so, Minister, with all respect and friendship towards you. Above all, it must be borne in mind that, if we do not intervene well on the prescription, everything else will be shouted, like those of Manzoni, because that is the trap for those guilty of corruption. How many corrupt people are in prison today? I guess 11 or less. In what other country does this happen? We are in a country where the gentleman never goes to prison and the Pope also reminded us of it. I therefore call on you to have a moment of pride, in order to be at the level of the problem we are facing. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u23	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for his presence in this House, a sign of respect for the Senate, as well as for his presence in the Commission and of course I would also like to thank the Vice-Minister. I will begin immediately with a technical criticism, and then move on to a political part, in which I will present amendments that we can define allegorical, paradoxical, metaphorical, parabola-amendments, which have the aim of dismantling the demagogy and false populism that the Government wants to carry forward with the bill under consideration. With regard to the technical part, it is clear that the proposed amendments to Article 2621 of the Civil Code restore the ante-reform penalties. They seem a little redundant to me, the formulas "consciously expose" and "concretely suitable" to me. The adverb is aware of this, Minister, for two reasons. The new article 2621 of the Civil Code will provide for a crime and not a violation, ergo needs the dole; it would therefore be impossible to punish someone because he has exposed false materials "unknowingly." Moreover, the crime must also be assisted by the specific malice of unjust profit, which requires an already reinforced awareness. In short, the expression "consciously" seems to me to be an entirely advertising addition and harbinger of possible litigation for the succession of laws over time. So it is a demagogy and a false populism, which will have no effect. Similarly, the expression "concretely suitable to induce others in error" opens up to endless discussions on the suitable false in abstract, but not in concrete. The disappearance of the thresholds, replaced by the two pleasing expressions made of small entities and facts of particular tenuity, opens a discretion difficult to understand in a numerical context, where one can easily quantify the seriousness of the crime. In medicine - I am a doctor - the dose is important, because it must be the effective one and it cannot be any dose, because if it is not enough it does not solve the disease, if it is too high it can lead to damage or death to the patient. The new article 2622 of the Civil Code increases penalties for listed companies and removes the damage event. This seems to me to be a good simplification, except for what is said above on the 'consciously'. In addition, the absence of both thresholds and small graded assumptions seems to me to be highly questionable. It can be argued that the new article 2622 has a greater amplitude (false representation that leads to error) than the predecessor 2622 (false representation that causes error and cause damage) and that there is therefore continuity for the relationship of species to genus (in the most part there is the least and not vice versa). However, it may also be argued that the old Article 2622 of the Civil Code (injury) is structurally different from the new Article 2622 of the same Code (dangerous crime) and therefore there is no legal continuity. This would mean that the old disputes under Article 2622 of the Civil Code would fall into thin air for implicit repeal. The only sure continuity would be with the previous article 2621 of the Civil Code, which is a violation unlike the new 2621 and 2622 of the Civil Code, so that if the previous 2622 were implicitly repealed and there was continuity only with the predecessor 2621 of the Civil Code, one could have the paradoxical effect that before a dispute on the basis of the old 2622 we would find ourselves unable to apply the new 2622 but, at the limit, the old 2621. Finally, there could be a problem in the succession between the old 2622 (injury) and the new 2622 (dangerous crime): depending on the criteria adopted by the Cassation, it could skip the regulatory continuity. You see, Minister, even a small doctor as I am can identify technical criticalities that actually point out how superficial, how much demagogy and how false populism there have been. I now come to the more political part, which I am interested in, to those amendments which I have called allegorical, paradoxical, metaphorical, in the form of parables, which many Members have wished to mention, and I thank them for that, because it means that the parable, the metaphor, the allegory has centered its objective. To give an example here, the allegory, metaphor, similitude or parable I will use is medical. I address all Italians who hear us: epidemiology is a science that states that in every family, alas, there is a person who can have a neoplasm, a malignant tumor. Obviously, the doctor addresses the whole family, who is engaged in this situation that compromises the physical life of those who are affected by it, but also the family, social and working and the doctor are asked two things: therapy and prognosis. In the medical discipline of epidemiology, the prognosis is five years and for five years these people do not live. When they are told that they will work in two weeks, they ask if they can't anticipate one week, they go to the specialist and continue to do investigations. Only after five years, after further tests have been carried out, the prognosis is dissolved and it can be said whether the patient has recovered. How can we think of bringing this prognosis into legal health to fifteen, twenty or twenty-five years? We need certain times, as the Constitution tells us. We need specific or special courts - I can say that for my guaranteed or socialist culture - to work day and night, seven days a week, including Christmas, Easter and New Year. If those we are talking about are crimes of social alarm, it is necessary that specific action is taken and that efforts are made to ensure that those who commit them are of course condemned. It is not possible to hypothesize a prognosis at fifteen or twenty years, because then it is right who says that, when a trial begins, the judge indicates the period of limitation in the file at the top right, so if this is twenty years the trial will take place in twenty years. Can we allow a surgeon to operate after ten or fifteen years, with a diagnosis already made? We must proceed quickly: legal health is the same as health, referred to in Article 32 of the Constitution, which guarantees everyone. We cannot, therefore, allow ourselves not to dissolve the prognosis and to keep people suspended, to whom perhaps only in fifteen to twenty years we will say whether they are innocent or not, perhaps holding them in prison for several years. That is why I have tabled provocative amendments, because we cannot go on false populism or easy demagogy. I say then: let us whip them or put them in the square, depending on whether they are investigated or sent back to trial or not. In addition to these, I have tabled other amendments, which are serious and which aim to prevent them. In particular, if we think that 80% of the regions' budget is committed to health spending, we must take the directors-general, the health and administrative directors away from politics and affirm the meritocracy. Someone talked about the brain drain, which happens because you do customerism. On these issues I wanted to beat myself by tabling some amendments - on which the Government has not expressed itself in favour - in order to remove these figures from politics, the red cooperatives, the red, white and blue regions, in order to reaffirm the meritocracy and prevent the brain drain. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Yes, ma'am. For this reason, I have tabled allegorical amendments, which are similitudes, metaphors and parables, in order to raise public awareness so that prevention is made concretely and not prognosis at the age of fifteen or twenty. The prognosis, as in public health, must be five, seven or ten years at most, but not more; otherwise Italy is destined to die and, with this increase in penalties, no one will come to invest in Italy and we will be the taillight in Europe as far as foreign investments are concerned. There is no dualism between guaranteeing and justiceism: the prevalence can only be of guaranteeing. Our Constitution is a guarantee; the executioners return to Stalin's Russia or Hitler's Germany. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I too am particularly pleased with the presence of the Minister of Justice, because we are dealing with very important issues, and I am therefore pleased that attention is being paid to them. Let us discuss this bill on corruption - I believe casually - precisely in the days when there has been a great movement throughout Italy, which concentrated in Bologna on the Day of Memory and Commitment, in memory of the innocent victims of the Mafia, of which many have already spoken and on which I do not dwell. I would simply like to remind you that this was a great opportunity when many of us had the impression that perhaps we can try to be a little more confident than our future. Meanwhile there was a huge participation of serious and committed young people, who remained all day long; first they listened to a very long list - it would seem impossible to think that young people are so respectful and silent - of people who were victims of the mob, and then participated in a whole series of moments of reflection on issues pertaining to organized crime, corruption and the mob. These young people have participated with great intelligence and with a great passion to help build a society different from what they begin to know as they become great. Precisely at a seminar that we did on issues relating in particular to corruption and health, a city council member here rightly pointed out that there were so many young people, workers and not health workers, but unfortunately there weren't the generations closest to mine, almost as if our generation has lost some real attention to these issues, often the attention is more rhetorical than real for the purposes of participation and the desire to build. That day I thought that if it is true, as someone very authoritative said, that then I will quote, that politics must interpret the great currents of opinion, and indeed it must better organize the aspirations of the population, perhaps on such days we have the opportunity to verify that there is a great aspiration to a different world, and we have the duty not only to deal with the laws that modify the criminal sanctions against these acts, but also the duty to organize these aspirations and contribute so that they can improve our system and our country. Corruption, as has already been said, is very often strongly intertwined with organised crime, which in many cases seems pervasive. The effects of corruption and organised crime are much wider than what we normally consider to be direct effects. The direct effects, it is true, are the increases in performance costs, especially when they concern the public administration (very often the public administration is strongly involved). However, they not only lead to an increase in the cost of services, but increasingly, especially in these years of major restrictions, particularly in the areas of welfare and health, not to mention the social sector where the situation is dramatically serious, have the effect of reducing the services available to citizens and preventing their supply. It is no longer a question of increasing expenditure, which becomes impossible because restrictions prevent it, but of reducing services for citizens. We now know for certain that corruption even worsens the health of citizens: there are studies that show that where there is more corruption (of course this factor is a cause compared to others) infant mortality is higher. Corruption increases inequality because it affects mainly the most fragile and the weakest population; it hinders development, we know that and I do not think that there is even a need to talk about it; we know that it distorts competition for the benefit of the corrupt, the less serious and to the detriment of the most serious people and entrepreneurs who struggle to survive in a polluted market; and again, it fuels injustice. Above all, I would like to focus on a very important effect, which I believe this House should reflect on for a longer time. I am referring to the fact that corruption and organised crime reduce confidence in the institutions. Let me give you an example, if there is ever a need for a concrete example. We know, not only in Italy but also in other countries, that every time there is a phenomenon of corruption that concerns for example a hospital company, there is an immediate decline, which fortunately lasts a few months, and then there is a resumption of organ donations. Let us think very carefully: from the phenomena of maladministration or even corruption, distrust in the institutions comes down, and mistrust in the institutions can be transformed into something more, which even affects democracy. Let me stress, then, that the issue of corruption cannot simply end in increasing the penalties, which are important, especially after we reduced them in the previous decade, in some way favouring situations that we certainly should not have favoured (and now we realize this, because the numbers tell us). The issue of corruption is not limited to changing the penal code and increasing penalties: this is a necessary but not sufficient condition. Since others have mentioned authoritative names, which I do not want to take back, because I absolutely agree with what has already been said by those who preceded me, I would like to quote with great humility Enrico Berlinguer. In these cases, in fact, I cannot fail to remember his interview in 1981: it has been thirty-four years and many of the things he said then on the moral question unfortunately still have so much to teach us. Enrico Berlinguer said: The moral question does not end in the fact that, being thieves, corrupts and concussors in high spheres of politics and administration, we must find them, denounce them, put them in jail. If, as a political class, we have a responsibility, we must think that the problem is not just to find them, sanction them and put them in jail. Our goal is to improve the ethical level in our society. We must awaken consciences and testify to what can be done to ensure that there are deterrent functions to these demonstrations and even the ability to prevent them, because, when we arrive at the penal code, it means that we have already failed. For once again, it means that we failed, because we did not realize that we were faced with particularly serious situations and we were unable to prevent them, find them and hold them, intervening early. There would also be a great deal to be said about that part of the public administration, which I am dealing with and with which I have more knowledge than others, health: being an economic sector of great importance from the point of view of the resources it has and which makes available to citizens, lends itself to operations of various kinds and is of great interest to organized crime and corruption. Well, in fact, from what little we know - because the phenomenon is obviously by definition hidden - there is no evidence that there is a greater presence of corruption and crime in health care. Of course, however, those phenomena are more serious than when they happen in other situations, because there they go to harm the right of citizens to be protected in health. In conclusion, Madam President, what we are seeing at the moment is that the whole regulatory apparatus set up in favour of greater transparency and rules aimed at preventing corruption is imposing and majestic: often, when we compare ourselves with other countries - except for some elements in which we have no history, so we struggle to improve our legislation - we are also at the forefront. The problem is that at the moment we have to ask ourselves how we can ensure that it is not just bureaucratic: transparency and plans for the prevention of corruption are extremely important, but we must not just be bureaucratic; otherwise, we will be able to discourage that attitude of attention to the legality of many citizens and public operators, if we think that we have completed our task by simply transforming it into the compilation of forms and the preparation of documents that must be sent to some competent authority. That is why it is necessary that, apart from regulatory changes and administrative actions, we return to bear witness to responsibility and civil conscience and, above all, to ensure that good administration is made. The lack of good administration, in fact, is the fertile ground on which all these phenomena of illegality are nested, to which we have paid too little attention, indeed, that we have often denigrated in recent years, thinking that the public administration was composed entirely of characters absolutely unprepared and however unproductive. In fact, we must think about this, because if we do not go back to good administration we will not even be able to fight corruption. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u25	Colleagues, we greet the representatives of students and students from Bologna, Milan and Catania of the CEUR Foundation - European University and Research Centre, to whom we welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u26	Madam President, here we are: in the Senate, finally, in the Chamber, the process of approving the bill against corruption begins. I would also like to mention the presence of an important rule on mafia associationism and the much-discussed false budget. Colleagues, the combined arrangement of corruption, mafias and economic crimes such as fake in the budget creates irreparable damage to our country. A damage that blocks the economy and its chances of recovery at a high rate, as never before in our country, but erodes also the trust between the citizens and especially in the institutions, disarticulating the relationship between the citizens and the latter. Colleagues, I think you can share that the main damage is perpetrated against young people, the new generations who do not want to live in a corrupt country full of mafias, who do not look to the future and is not solid, who does not have a rigor in living his relationship with the laws. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we need to establish the level of response. I think, and the Democratic Party demands, that the answer should be as strict as possible. With this approach, we can make sure that this path, which has been very hard, full of obstacles and full of pitfalls, can come to an end in the next few days, without more delays and uncertainties. Colleagues, there are two very important issues missing from the text that we are going to vote on here, because it has already been adopted in other legal provisions and is therefore already in force. I am referring to the case referred to in the controversial Article 416-b, i.e. the political-mafia exchange, and the law on self-recycling. We have also not dealt with the part concerning the prescription, because it was addressed by the House just yesterday, at first reading, and a special bill was passed that increases its duration for all crimes and in particular for those of corruption. A strict line, which we believe should be maintained here in the Senate. It is a mistake to fall into the trap of those who want to counter prevention to repression. We have discussed a lot in the Justice Commission, we are discussing it in the country and many experts are urging us to pay a lot of attention to prevention. We agree, because prevention is a decisive weapon. But in the fight against corruption and mafias, prevention and repression are two sides of the same coin that cannot be separated. The Government has given a very strong signal: it has constituted the new National Anti-corruption Agency (NAAC), which is a step forward in the direction of prevention, but other steps must be taken. Of course, we must share the approach that requires an integrated approach and plan to combat corruption. You're damn right! We must radically reform public administration - it will be a topic that we will deal with in the next few days - by rotating the executives and eliminating the jungle of mediation, which often turns into perverse bureaucratic-client and corruptive-mafia mediation. It is also necessary to amend the procurement code - as has been repeated here by several colleagues - in order to reduce the number of contracting stations and avoid the use of legal escapades: expertise, variants, reservations, sub-contracts of convenience, even directors of the works appointed by the general contractor. Instead, it is necessary to reward the activity of the enterprise that, in order to carry out the public work, invests all its energies on the construction site, with workers and technicians, and not on the law firm, in order to find any pretext to delay the work, to make the years flow and thus open the way to the mediation concerned. There are also many other initiatives that invest in cultural, social and civil plans, in order to promote the complaint - yes, the complaint - by citizens and entrepreneurs who promote or receive corrupt requests. There is a legal text in this House which consists of three aspects: anti-corruption rules, Article 416-a rules and fake rules in the budget. On the fight against corruption have been increased the penalties, already tightened, albeit blandly, by the Severino law in 2012 and that obviously have not proved adequate to counter the corruptive phenomenon in our country. More stringent and innovative standards have also been included. I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that on all the rules that are laid down against corruption there has been this increase in penalties, from the inability to negotiate with the public administration to the condemnation resulting in the extinction of the employment and employment relationship. I would also like to mention, ladies and gentlemen, the offence of sin, the crime of corruption for the exercise of the function, and also the corruption for an act contrary to the duties of office, the crimes of corruption in judicial acts (very serious crime), the undue induction to give or promise, the mitigating circumstances, the rules on concussion. In short, we wanted to make a choice of greater severity, without incurring choices that are contrary to our Constitution and without committing the gross mistake of thinking that the tightening of penalties in itself is decisive compared to the concert of all the other issues that must be addressed in an integrated vision of the fight against corruption. But there are also new rules. As an example, I would like to point out that there is a new case, which relates to so-called monetary compensation. In essence, for the main crimes of corruption, when a public official or a public service officer is involved, the sentence of conviction must be ordered to pay a sum equal to the amount of what was wrongly received, without prejudice to the right to compensation for the damage. In the legal text approved in the Justice Commission and in our assessment of the House, the rule, which has already been tested in the fight against mafias, of the premier institution of justice cooperation has been included. In addition, Minister Orlando was very careful to include the institute of the plea by linking it no longer to a simple request from the defendant, but subjecting it to a very important condition: in order to obtain this benefit we must return the malt. In addition, we wanted to give additional powers to the National Agency. I remember that both the administrative judge and the PM in criminal proceedings communicate to the Anti-corruption Authority the investigations carried out and the measures taken, so that the Authority can better prevent the episodes of corruption or avoid the harmful blocking of the realization of the public work. I said, ladies and gentlemen, that, in agreement with the Government, the increase in the penalties for crimes of a mafia nature, the famous article 416- bis, was included in the Commission. Finally, an effective response is given to the evolution of the strategies of the Mafia organisations. Over the years, in fact, the Mafia leaders have entrusted to low labour the so-called fine crimes (extortion, threats, violence, drug trafficking), in the awareness that the crime of Mafia association is hit with a few years of imprisonment, so today in our territories we have many prominent bosses who have returned for the end of their sentence. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2010 an amendment of mine was approved, here, to the Senate, which increased this crime by two years. We have now made a delicate choice, which must be evaluated, but which I believe must be confirmed: that of further tightening the penalties, providing for a period of detention up to twenty-six years precisely for those who are at the top of the mob organizations. Finally, the text to the House's assessment also provides for the strengthening of fakes in the budget. The current legislation has been identified as a serious limit, which has discredited our country in the eyes of international investors and which in the bill under discussion here in the Chamber is again a criminal offence to be punished more severely. The fake in the budget can be prosecuted on its own initiative and not by means of a party's complaint, as provided for in the current legislation, the current one. Compared to the original text, proposed by the Government, it was agreed to remove the so-called non-criminality thresholds in favour of the distinction between listed companies and unlisted companies, safeguarding from excessive rigour the very small commercial, craft, entrepreneurial activities, stumbled into errors in the drawing up of the financial statements. Dear colleagues, the fight against corruption, mafias, crimes of criminal economy needs a country that wakes up, but above all a policy that wakes up, a policy that resumes its leading role, able to indicate, in a vision of a modern country, which way to go. I bring back to you, ladies and gentlemen, the appeals that have been made: I remember the many associations that have been beaten in recent years and that have understood that the relationship between the mafia and corruption is a visceral relationship that damages our country. Free were remembered with Don Ciotti, even today in Bologna a day against the mafias, anti-racket associations, the Fondazione Caponnetto, the Center for studies and cultural initiatives Pio La Torre, citizens against mafias and corruption and many other expressions of our world, such as the President of the Republic, Pope Francis. In short, I think it is time that Parliament too decided to make the best of it and decided on the path of rigour and severity to tell the country that it is moving on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u27	Madam President, with all the friendship and esteem I have for you, I would like to express my solidarity with Professor D'Ascola for what he had to suffer contrary to his recognized legal knowledge and personal history by Senator D'Ascola, and in particular as Senator D'Ascola, often in contrast to the principles of our legal system, had to endorse to follow a government and a majority absolutely demagogic and demagogic without attachment to reality. In the same way, I believe that President Grasso must express a thank you to Senator Cappelletti, who, having pointed out punctually the differences that exist between the bill Grasso and the bill that today is at the attention of the Assembly, prevented a bad law as this can, in the chronicle of the coming years, bear the name Grasso. There's a Severino law, there won't be, thanks to Senator Cappelletti, a Fat law. In what is this law resolved? In a simple - I must tell the truth, even poorly imaginative - tightening of the penalties. Faced with the emergency of the news, the Government responds by increasing the penalties, forgetting, however, for example, that the scandal of the Expo, the scandal of the MOSE, the scandal of Mafia Capitale, the recent scandal of large contracts were born at a time when, after the Severino law, it had arrived exactly to a tightening penalty; and the Government responds without putting any reflection on the fact that, against the 7,500 prisoners in Germany for facts against the public administration, there are only 230 in Italy. Clearly, if you want to, you can identify, depending on how you want to think about it, or some investigative inability of the bodies involved to counter the specific phenomenon, namely that the tightening of penalties really doesn't do any good. In fact, if there are only 230 people in prison, in the face of a corruptive phenomenon so widely perceived, I have to believe that or it is not accurate the perception, or that the investigations are not particularly effective. What is the solution to this provision? In a goddamn increase in the minimums and maximums of punishment. With regard to minima (corruption, if I am not mistaken, reaches six years), beyond the fact that this increase inevitably leads to a lack of confidence in the discretion of the judge - it is a strong criticism that this Government makes to the judiciary - I wonder in what terms and in what ways, Minister Orlando, you think you can punish a corruption for 500 euros, 1,000 euros, 50 euros, 200 euros (do yourself) with a penalty that can not be less than four years of imprisonment. On the other hand, when you proceed to the increase of the penalties - right, we have not opposed it - you must be honest to the bottom, because you must say that the increase was bent to different needs. First of all, the possibility of increasing the great ear that prevails in this country, namely the telephone interceptions, which since our Constitution was just, exceptional means of investigation, have become the practice. It has been lost, Minister, the ability to investigate, because the interceptions are languishing; they prevent investigators from laboring. Secondly, it is evident that it bends to the prescription. Of course, to tell you the truth, how you will be able to tune these penalties with the prescription you have just issued in the House, I don't know; I wish you my best, but I want to tell you something. I think Senator Capacchione was there. I asked a 30-year-old boy, graduate, trained, who Cusani was, who Trane was, but he could not answer me, highlighting in clear terms the ancient meaning of the prescription, and that is that when one forgets the fact, when the social alarm fails, the interest of the State in punishment is lacking. That is to say that the principle of the reasonable duration of the trial which you too, Minister, have sought to recall. It is useless for President Renzi, as usual with great oratory capacity, to say: we do not want a police state, but a state of cleanliness. The President-in-Office of the Council should know that when guarantees fail (and guarantees are interceptions in exceptional cases, processes within a reasonable time, the possibility of committing the penalty when that penalty can still fulfil its re-educational function), and that when guarantees fail, you are in a police state. We in the police state were not even there when the country was tired of the tragedy of terrorism. Special laws were not made at the time; the guarantees of the citizens were not violated and, nevertheless, that phenomenon was eradicated. I think we're in the presence of a big propaganda commercial. An example of all: I hear from the President of the Council and the majority that this Government has the great merit of strengthening the powers of the National Anti-corruption Authority. False. Those powers are born from the Severino law, and the intervention that was made by the Government on the anti-corruption authority from the point of view of the powers is limited simply to conveying the news of the so-called public informants officers, the sycophants of the public administration, ex article 54- bis of the Severino law, to require the lawyers of the State to report to the Anti-corruption Authority the presence of anomalies in the contracts; and it is evidently an intervention on the Expo. And it is precisely this strengthening of powers that demonstrates the absence of a project and the ability only to respond with an emerging fact to what the chronicle represents. Madam President, Senators, but why should those powers be limited only to the Expo and not also to Mose and the big contracts? [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi]] Why was it intended to fortify the anti-corruption Authority only with reference to a segment of the life of the contracts of this country? Don't you think I'm right, "Il Folio" when he says that by now Cantone has become a Madonna behind which the Government and this majority hide their shortcomings? For the Presidency of the Republic there was Canton, for the Minister of Infrastructure there was Canton and for procurement there is Canton. Canton get out of this kind of speech. Do it out of respect for your professional history. As far as sanctions are concerned, what canton says and what all the magistrates say is that the tightening of sanctions that are not accompanied by other measures has no ability to deter. With regard to what is done and not done, I would be curious to ask the Government what ended the regulation for the evaluation of performance, although provided for in Article 1, paragraph 10, of Law No 114 of 2014 on the national anti-corruption authority. It is a regulation that does not exist, that disappears, yet I believe that, at a time when the suspicious gaze is directed towards the leaders, perhaps it was necessary to make that regulation. It is likely to happen when the news reports present us with an additional emergency. In this bill, there are serious errors, even from our point of view, which are inconstitutional. I am well aware of what happened in this House with the political vote of the majority, but the Constitutional Court will touch the plea because it really doesn't make sense that the condition to which you are subject doesn't exist for the murderer, the extortortor and the tax evader. Yet, you focus your attention on fake budgeting as an instrument of exactly tax evasion. What is the point of premium legislation in a phenomenon that is normally synallagmatic? Two people, one corrupts and the other is corrupt; one concussion and the other concussion. Will it be enough for you that the corrupt give news on how to find the source of the crime to get a reduction of up to half the penalty or have you imagined, wrong when you drop it into the system for how you designed it, that everything was corruptive system? And on the fake budget, Senator Caliendo explained this morning. Will you take away another curiosity? If you imagine that in order to be false in the budget there must be material facts relevant (unconstitutional formula of which the Court, ex Articles 3 and 25 of the Constitution, will make weird), how can you make the material facts relevant to the small entity and the particular tenuity compatible if one thing in itself completely excludes the other? But the biggest mistake you have made (because you have no imagination) is not to have imagined a double system of corruption: everyday corruption, the one punished as it is now, and the corruption of large contracts, which moves as a crime not against public administration, but against the national economy. There it made sense to raise the minimums and maximums of the penalty, because if a corruptive intervention in those great contracts blocks the action of modernization of the country, there we must intervene with absolute hardness! And we cannot afford, having no courage or imagination to do this, to infect the system with a total irrationality of the sanctioning apparatus. In an area where there is the rule of secrecy, of humor, I would be curious to know how many sycophants of the public administration, even if they are covered by anonymity, as guaranteed by Article 54 bis of the Severino law, have made declarations, contributions, aid, last to the Anti-corruption Authority. You have made a law that is only repressive, forgetting the most important part, the one that prevents the sick person from getting sick; the one that, as Senator Barani says, prevents the doctor from getting to the bedside: prevention. You said you were thinking about it: when? How? Do you need another segment of the news? Just as you did yesterday with your decalogue that involves rotation of the management tasks. But was there a need for the Incalza episode (presumed not guilty until a judgment passed in court) to imagine that this rotation was the ABC of prevention? A decalogue that will have disciplinary sanctions. But make the laws! You impose by law on a public administration that is immobile, on a public administration that protects its powers and its benefits and that is judged on its own. Make the laws to move this stale and, in some cases, even muddy sector. How could you reject amendments in the Commission which were all geared towards prevention? The 5 Star Movement gave you a hand, making us reject the amendments that subtracted politics from the appointment of the directors of ASLs, administrative directors and health directors. Because we all know that precisely in those appointments you lurk the evil of health care. You told us no, claiming you're gonna do it. Do so, but you have the opportunity to do so, not at the next emergency, but to do so tomorrow or the day after tomorrow by voting on our amendments. You said no to an amendment that prevented the arbitration clause in public administration contracts, i.e. arbitration. But read the papers. In this scandal on large contracts there appears a great arbitration to the Ministry of Public Works, when the Minister was another. A great arbitration repeated, which brought significant economic damage to the Ministry of Public Works and brought great advantages to the referee appointed by the Ministry who then - who knows why - went to carry out a position of great prestige in the party of which that minister was leader. 18.15 p.m. (Follow PALMA). And can you really say that arbitration can only and exclusively be entrusted to public executives? This is stated by the Severino law: but do you not realize that you have to get out of the logic of arbitration? Give yourselves to those judges whom you praise all the time and stop with these calamillas of the arbitration and favors that are done to the referees friends who appoint themselves. But do you really think that the public executives, who are, as it were, members of the referees, will not favour the way of arbitration? With reference to the law of 2014, how could you reject our amendment, which asked to send the National Anti-Corruption Authority the secreted procurement papers, with the same obligation and with the same connotation of secrecy and confidentiality? You realize that in secret procurement there is a world that is completely uncontrollable, in an area where there is a need for control. How can you not understand that you have to intervene heavily against the splitting of contracts? Go and see what happened in the City of Rome: splitting allows direct custody without competition and prevents compliance with European legislation. And again, how do you not understand that the whole problem of corruption is not related to the measure of ten, twenty or thirty years - there are only 200 people in prison, so the game is worth the candle - but it is far from it. The problem is to free the world of public administration from the opacity that pervades it, through a legislative simplification, a deburocratization, the identification of certain times in procedures, so as to allow citizens of certain rights, where the arrogance of public administration, often accompanied by a clientele policy, makes those citizens of subjects. I am sorry for what Senator Cioffi said: in a certain part of Italy this forces citizens, poor or rich, to pay their burden to the arrogance of those who manage the power, but in the lands of the South requires the intervention of other bodies, of the anti-state. Senator Lumia, Senator D'Ascola, is it true or is it not true that organized crime often in the South, through its criminal and mafia interventions, succeeds in getting the citizen quickly what is denied to him by the administration? Is this not one of the clearest forms of proselytism in organised crime? Get the state back to the South, free the people of the South from organized crime! The first way to do this is to prevent corruption and make the bureaucracy a friend of the citizen and not an arrogant enemy. These are the reasons why I believe that this measure is only a propaganda commercial and will have no effect. Mr Minister, I wish you every success. I hope I am wrong, but I am not absolutely sure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVI. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u28	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u29	Mr President, I have waited three hours to congratulate those who chaired this House before you on the green colour of your jacket. It has happened that you are the one who presided over this House during my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u30	I am sorry to disappoint you, Senator Council, but the person concerned may still have taken up your reference.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u31	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, Senator Palma repeated repeatedly in his speech: You don't understand. Now I'll see if I can explain it, that I'm a surveyor. The purpose of the bill before the Assembly today is to restore quality and authority to the public administration, both central and peripheral: at least this is probably the intention of the person who proposed it. It consists of 11 articles, which are divided into two Heads. Articles 1 to 7 contain provisions on crimes against public administration, mafia-type associations and, more generally, corruption and the costs involved. Articles 8 to 11 contain criminal provisions on companies and consortia and, more generally, on the balance sheet. Corruption and evil are established evils in this country. This is the result of many studies that have been published in various titles in recent years and on which have also made a certain fortune some local films and shows. According to the National Business Union, corruption in Italy has devoured 10 billion euros of GDP per year in the period 2001-2011. This has led, as is easy to understand, to a drop in investment of about 16% and, even more serious, the cost of procurement has increased by 20% due to corruption. Equally serious is the fact that companies operating in a non-legal environment increase 25% less than companies operating in a legal context. All these negativity impact heavily on the growth of this country, resulting in the alteration of free competition and the concentration of wealth in the hands of those who agree to benefit from the market of bribes and corruption. Corruption must be read as a delegitimization of the political class and institutions, as a strong sign of degradation of the ruling class, with rewarding systems that reward - excuse the play of words - corrupt and corrupt. Cement, echoafies, a raging of white collars, complacent technicians and corrupt politicians: for organized crime, corruption of public officials and even private subjects is functional to their illicit trafficking insofar as they allow, among other things, access to confidential information, obtain false documents, pilot public evidence proceedings, recycle their proceeds and exclude law enforcement actions by the judicial and police authorities: bureaucracy, in this respect, is the boss. The latest annual report of the National Anti-Mafia Directorate considers corruption not only a crime against public administration, but one of the most serious crimes against the economy. Corruption is considered to be the glue between mafia, money laundering and the economy and has created, Mr President, a perverse system of connection between civil society and mafia society and the risk of self-sufficiency is serious and real, as serious and real is the fact that organized crime has a high capacity to infiltrate the economic and social fabric: it manages to establish relations with civil society and feeds on collusion and corruption, which can only be defeated by a strong and courageous political choice. Corruption, by its nature, has been well defined as the crime of the infidels, that is, betrayal by those who should serve the public good and who instead allow access to public benefits not due in exchange for money or personal benefits. And the relationship between the infidels and the criminal organizations becomes easy and, in some ways, unfortunately natural, because it moves on a facilitated and privileged channel as it is based on a common matrix characterized by a high and dangerous rate of illegality. It is certified that in modern and advanced societies public administrations are inevitably great producers of income and therefore attractive and in the sight of the aggression of every form of illicit. The text states that this measure contains provisions on corruption, voting for exchange, forgery in the budget, money laundering; and when it comes to corruption, we cannot fail to mention the issue of procurement. The infiltration of organised crime in the field of public procurement is an increasingly frequent occurrence in court proceedings. All traditional mob organisations show a particular interest in this sector, through which they acquire important sources of profit; they diversify the use of the illicitly accumulated capital through those ways of which they have spoken before with reference to the issue of money laundering and manage directly or indirectly economic enterprises, offering, among other things, jobs, controlling subcontracting and hires. This penetration of the mafias in the field of public procurement has also been facilitated by a stratification of rules considered to be excessive, so the unfaithful official has the opportunity to act in the concussive mechanisms. Then there was talk of an exchange vote and here is paradoxically part of welfare, with reference of course to an illegal welfare. Criminal organisations also offer social welfare assistance and services, and this activity, which generates consensus, then translates into customer employment. The result is a disturbing picture, with a subaltern political class that often favours this state of dependence on the mafia welfare to mutual consent in decisive electoral moments. Mr President, it seems that there is no longer any choice: a scandal is needed to ensure that corruption is taken into account and that it continues to burn resources and the potential of an entire country. Perhaps we have used not only the ear, but probably all the senses to have the perception that speaking of corruption is a normal matter: the lumps of power, the contracts, the false contests, the corded, the firms that make cartel, the bribes, the bribes, the increases of the costs, the unfinished works, the courses and the appeals, the legal actions never concluded. This is the measure, of which my colleagues have highlighted the flaws, the shortcomings, the omissions perhaps desired or perhaps present because of the inability of the majority to consolidate some considerations that had also been brilliantly made in the Commission. A law that will serve as the Maalox for the burning of public opinion: a disgusting public opinion that at this point hopes an ad hoc scandal for all the problems of this country. Mr President, Raffaele Cantone, who was also appointed by President Palma (Cantone di quar, Cantone di là, seemed to me the game of the four cantons and, in any case, President Palma's position on the fact that only the question of the Expo was entrusted to Cantone is at least singular) wrote a book in which he tried to understand what happened in this blessed country. Canton writes in the book that corruption and evil increasingly swallow this country, which in part coexists with corruption as if it were normal, while the vast majority in some way even seems resigned. In this country corruption is rampant in all its parts: no one is saved. Probably someone lives in corruption, even if they have no knowledge or guilt. Corruption is present at the political and entrepreneurial level, in public offices and hospitals: a paralyzed system and the only way to move it is the oil of the bribe. An unsustainable system that must be fought by introducing in society the antibodies that give citizens the confidence in this country, the confidence that they can have a future without bribes and entrails, in which merit and abilities have the ability to assert themselves. I mean, we need a cultural revolution. Corruption is one of the main reasons why Italy's future is blocked in uncertainty. It is a rampant phenomenon among the causes of unemployment, the economic crisis and disservices in the public sector and causes the disinterest of foreign countries to invest in this country, which suffers mainly from two problems: slowness of the civil process and corruption, as claimed by an American diplomat. My Divine colleague, in this morning's intervention, spoke of the K coefficient, that is that fixed multiplier used to increase the penalties: they also used it in the land register to increase the cadastral incomes, so you are not new to these systems. To give the appearance of a more repressive law, to have faced the problem and then to take the bull by the horns, you have done nothing but increase the years in prison. Some have complained, because it took a long time to bring this measure to the House. It may be so, but there are also those who say that the resulting product is perhaps still poor in terms of quality and incidence and is not incisive in relation to the problem in general. As all colleagues who have received e-mails or the press review on our mobile phones and tablets will have seen, this morning at least five or six news reports about arrests or convictions for corruption issues at various levels. I don't see the Minister, but I think the Deputy Minister will be a spokesperson. President Palma wished him every success: I believe that it is also necessary for our Group to do so, despite the fact that, when it comes to corruption, in the end we should all agree, if not in the form, at least in substance. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u32	Mr President, to begin my speech, I would like to draw attention to the position taken by two very authoritative legal practitioners, in particular the first of legal science, Professor Sabino Cassese, while the second is in the trench of the intervention of the judiciary in these areas, the Attorney of Venice Nordio. Professor Cassese in his interview notes that sanctions will not stop corruption, but prevention. Referring to this point, he also states that the lack of transparency and the restriction of access, i.e. the difficulty, if not even the impossibility, for everyone to be able to compete freely for a certain thing or for a certain competition risk not guaranteeing open competition. It concludes by inviting you to monitor areas where resources are and can be obtained or created. Attorney Carlo Nordio concludes his letter to "The Messenger" saying that the more corrupt the state is, the more laws are numerous and increase, the more corrupt the state is. We must therefore reduce and above all simplify existing ones, because the corrupt, even before being punished or intimidated, must be disarmed. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with these last considerations in order to pursue a reasoning which, to be honest, has been accepted in part within this measure, but there is much to be done in this direction: the whole issue of preventive and generalized controls, in particular for acts of economic importance, and that is where the strong interest of criminal associations, in particular those of the Mafia, lies. Through the simplification and clarity of procedures and legislation, rules must be put in place that prevent the execution of illegal acts and the lighthouses must certainly be lit on large contracts - as the President of the Commission, Mr Nitto Palma, has rightly said - because, yes, they are indeed an attack on the national economy. However, it is also necessary to keep an eye on the thousands, on the contrary the hundreds of thousands of niches of illegality at all levels in the public administration. The conflict of interest must be taken into account: in this respect, Mr President and Mr Vice-Minister, I would like to draw attention to the Senate Act 1319 on conflict of interest provisions, which continues to remain in a drawer and is not taken into account. It is through the conflict of interest that so many causes of corruption are removed and the raising of penalties can certainly be an answer, but not the only one. However, I would like to start with a remark that has upset me, ladies and gentlemen: this morning the President of the National Association of Judges called for a reform-shock of the crime of corruption - as if, for example, nothing had been done in recent years - in a radio intervention, which anticipated our debate today, here in this House, by a few minutes. Well, the socialist senators intend to take up this challenge, indeed, they have been doing so for a long time. Our amendments have already been proposed, in vain, in the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs and are being proposed in this House today. In this respect, Mr Costa, I would like to draw your attention to a number of amendments which we consider important in order to address seriously the issue of corruption in our country. We have proposed amendment 1,300, which refers to the offence of concussion in such a way that, applied in particular to European legislation, a single offence is built for those who take part in the exchange between an administrative act and money or other utility or its mere promise, whether it be an actor, user, recipient or intermediary. If the person responsible for the administrative procedure authorizes, invites or favours the private individual to take advantage of the payment on the public administration, on the general tax, on the community or on the individual categories of user citizens, through the undue raising of prices, tariffs, parcels or other emoluments, the illicit exchange is always there. If the person in charge of the proceedings intentionally does not work to prevent the undue disbursements mentioned above - and judicial proceedings from this point of view are a real tragedy - the exchange is always there and must be punished. For further arguments, please refer to the report of our bill No 897, which is incomprehensible not in conjunction with today's agenda. With amendment 1,308, the final conviction for crimes against public administration must lead to the forfeiture of the place of work in the public office, even if less than three years, because, faced with a crime against the public administration, even if it is small - I am not talking about the slight extent of the fact, which the judge will have to assess - the trust relationship between the State, the public administration and its operator or employee is lacking. In this sense, therefore, there is a need for greater severity than today. Amendment 3.0.303 gives public effect to party self-regulation codes with regard to exclusion from the lists of inquisitioned persons. It is useless that we complain that there are the interventions of the judiciary on characters who run into judicial investigations: we must have the courage to address the issue before and, at the same time, where there are such interventions, do not erect guarantee protections, of which there is need when the procedure is defective but not when the procedure of verification of the behaviour takes place in compliance with the rules. From this point of view, with amendment 4.0.303 the Anti-Mafia District Directorate should devote judges to the constant flow of information for the bodies that oversee the controls, so as to assess the administrative and accounting irregularities that may emerge from these acts. Amendment 5.0.302 reinforces the possibility that the reporting agent within the public administration retains his/her secret identity. This is a particularly sensitive problem. In the investigation, in particular before the filing of the documents, it is evident the need for absolute confidentiality and it cannot happen what happens on a daily basis, that during the investigations are already announced on the pages of the newspapers interventions of various types compared to subjects who are protagonists of serious events but also to subjects who in judicial events have absolutely nothing to do with it. In particular, I believe that we must protect the action of the person who courageously takes the decision in public administration to report the behaviour that he believes is illegal. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I hear you ringing the bell and returning to your mercy. The shock therapy against corruption is there. It is enough to see it and to take account of the amendments that we and other colleagues are submitting to this House's assessment. Just read the papers carefully and the political class, in particular the parliamentarians, will be able to deal with the issues that the political and judicial situation of our country poses, but not only this. I believe that it is absolutely essential for our country to adopt an attitude of rigour not for its image, but because compliance with the rules is fundamental in a democratic and civil system. Having been unable to complete my speech on time limits, I would ask that we be able to attach the missing part. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Buemi. Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u33	Mr President, on 22 October 2012, the President of the Mario Monti Council presented the Government's White Paper on Corruption. More than 400 pages, the result of the work of a committee set up by Minister Patroni Griffi at the Presidency of the Council. It is from there that the figure has emerged, repeated by several colleagues, for which Italy would unfortunately, or at least two years ago, be at the sixty-ninth place for perceived corruption, on equal merit with Ghana, Botswana, Bhutan, Rwanda and Macedonia. The report noted that perceived corruption had a particularly serious coefficient for politicians and, with regard to the costs of corruption, for the first time emerged the figure of 60 billion euros per year that would cost corruption to our country, attributed to the Court of Auditors. As you know, the Court of Auditors has totally denied this figure, but I bring it back because, as Senator Barani would say, to study the treatment of an evil first requires a correct diagnosis and these 60 billion euros are a colossal bale, which is neither in heaven nor on earth and I will explain why it is precisely starting from this colossal bale, out of all economic reality, that therapy risks being wrong. Also two years ago the Atlas of Corruption was mentioned, published by EGA - Edizioni Gruppo Abele, and according to that report 12 percent of Italian citizens would have been asked for a bribe in the previous twelve months, as reported by ANSA, while according to the active citizenship association, which cited a Eurobarometer survey, 17 percent Italians said that in that year they had been asked for a bribe. Now it is clear that it is enough to make two figures in percentage and according to these figures, every year, between 7 and 11 million Italians would be subject to a request for bribes. There are approximately 3 million civil servants, meaning that every civil servant (including janitors, city officials and various employees) would ask for three bribes per year. Of course, in front of these striking data, since in the same year that these data came out the complaints (not the convictions) lodged in all Italian prosecutors for corruption and concussion offences had been 227 (these things are to parliamentary acts), I asked the Commission then (as I will ask the government now) where they had taken these data relating to 60 billion and 17%. The answer given in the Justice Commission by Severino and Patroni Griffi ministers, after I at Chamber sitting No 814 of 16 October 2012 had asked them for these things, was that they did not have any real data, that those data represented perceived corruption and that, with regard to the government's report, the data had been collected on the basis of a survey among the population. So we asked citizens what they thought about corruption and, on the basis of the citizens' response, we extrapolated this data. Look, it gets serious, because the 60 billion is not corruption, but maybe it's all the funds allocated to public works. You want an example? The MOSE issue was a very serious one. Hurray Nordio, who intervened, denounced, carried out the investigations, put in jail the leaders (including the politicians of cry), has already condemned them and expelled them from political life. But the MOSE, the whole MOSE, will cost five billion and 496 million euros. And the sum of the scandal - I quote "The Daily Fact" - which is an unsuspecting newspaper - would be an increase in expenditure from four billion to five billion, that is 1.3 billion more (it is 130 million per year of higher costs). We also deduct the 10 million that will have gone - as they said - to the President of the Veneto Region and the 10 that will have gone to the Finance Guard in 10 years; in all it will have been 30 million euros. But, excuse me, if the biggest scandal cost 30 million euros every year, compared to 60 billion euros, where are the other 59 billion and 970 million missing at the appeal? Why, then, do I quote these figures? Because if we want to fight corruption seriously, we need to make an exact diagnosis. Instead, our diagnosis is totally out of reality. According to this data, all Italians would be corrupt, concussive and criminal and there would be no decent people; it is clear that in this case the fight against corruption would be a lost fight. If in fact half the Italians were to arrest the other half, who guarantees me that the 25 million that would be the guards are not as corrupt as the others? These things are reflected in our debate, just watch television broadcasts these days. A large television network accuses the senators of being clumsy, because it claims that the senators in the last two years, not approving the Grasso proposal, have left Italy without the rules against corruption. So I ask my colleagues: how did the magistrates carry out the arrests in Venice, the arrests in the Expo, the arrests in Rome and the arrests in the last few days, if there are no rules against corruption? How did Nordio dismantle the network of Venetian corruption and have already condemned those responsible if there are no rules against corruption? Is it true or is it not true that two years ago, in January 2014, the new anti-corruption rules came into force, which increased the penalties and introduced a whole series of institutions? So how can we say that Parliament has not acted to introduce anti-corruption rules? Monday evening, in a television show with the boys of Libera, there was timing and, while talking, the numbers were running: 1,000 euros, 10,000 euros, 100,000 euros, one million euros. The transmission ended by saying that, after three hours of transmission, from the pockets of the Italians were carried away 20 million euros in bribes. Of course I did the calculations, getting the result that the 20 million were calibrated to bring out the famous 60 billion euros. Just as some distracted colleague does, who can't do the math and who hasn't even done the first grade, who continues to repeat the story of the 60 billion euros a year. I repeat: they are neither in heaven nor on earth, because they are totally out of any context of possible corruption. Do we want to fight real corruption instead? If there is a tumor, do we want, as Mr Barani says, to operate on the tumor decisively, instead of running after things we have historically seen? In these days I have heard mention of the Pica law, which was a way in which Italy just made thought of solving a very serious problem, such as that of corruption today: but in what way? Today I went to read again the Pica law and unfortunately I found some of the elements that emerged in the current debate: we have to make earth burned, we have to intervene with exceptional laws. The Pica law said - and unfortunately in the South they still remember it, since it cost a million deaths - that all those who resist armed force will be punished by shooting; instead, those who do not resist, but are fencers and food administrators, those who give news and help in any way will be applied the penalty of forced labor for life. Prefects can incarcerate for a year idlers, vagrants, suspicious persons, as well as camorrists and manutengolous suspects. Rightly, however, it has been recalled that in a democratic country we have beaten terrorism without coming out of democracy. The idea of making burned land to fight a phenomenon, working in such a way that citizens and entrepreneurs are ultimately more afraid of the state than they can have of the damage that crime can cause them, is a totally wrong and misleading idea. [[Recalls of the President]] I'll finish. Fortunately, the rapporteur is Senator Nico D'Ascola, who is a great jurist and a great criminalist, because this law between the House and the Senate will have to be refined especially with regard to the prescription. Mr President, I do end, but there would be talk of all the prevention that is not being done, such as education to legality. But these rules, which have multiplied crimes, add to prescriptions ranging from twenty to thirty years. But do you want to understand that a citizen who is accused of something up to sixty years of age at thirty years of age remains on trial? It is a disaster for the innocent, because the innocent person who is put in prison - these rules almost always allow arrest immediately - gets two or three months in prison and then maybe there is no evidence to condemn him; it is clear that they will take him for thirty years to the prescription without making the trial, forgetting the damage he has suffered. All the more reason, if one is guilty, but does it really take 30 years to establish his guilt and condemn him? We must, then, make a fundamental reflection on the mechanism that concerns the increase in penalties and the prescription. In fact, the penalty becomes effective if the trial has a reasonable duration and if the penalty is expiated as a result of the crime. We, on the other hand, if we do not intervene with the arranged Chamber-Senate, we create the category of lifelong defendants, that is, people who have to spend their lives... [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, I am the only one talking about my Group and I cannot understand why, being the only senator to speak for a Group, as a People's Area, of 40 senators, it must have some time when other groups have spoken for hours.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u34	Times are given to us by the Groups, Senator Giovanardi. I'll give you two more minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u35	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Since I am expressing an opinion for the People's Area Group, I said that the combination between this increase in penalties and the prescriptions will become decisive. In this run of waterline - because a crime was disproportionate to the penalty and we had to increase the penalty for another crime (corruption, compared to concussion, compared to corruption in judicial acts) and because, however, increasing the penalties we also increase to an extent the prescriptions - risks coming out a totally unbalanced instrument compared to the effects we want to achieve, which are - I repeat - fighting real corruption and not letting ourselves be dragged by a misleading scandalistic campaign, which instead of uniting the Italians in the fight against corruption risks dividing them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u36	Mr President, I too, as many of my colleagues have already done in this debate, want to start from the very important civil mobilization that has crossed the country in recent weeks and days: the hundreds of thousands of people who crossed the streets of Bologna a few days ago, for the day of solidarity with the victims of the Mafia. I too want to begin, as others have done, sharing that alarm cry that was launched by Don Ciotti and others in that square. That alarm cry, precisely, according to which the mafia and corruption are not today two separate phenomena, the one different from the other, to be treated individually, but are instead two sides of the same coin. For many months now we have been investigating, also in the Anti-Mafia Commission (of which I am honored to be a member), the profound transformations that are going through the criminal organizations of our country; we have done so and Parliament has done so, even discussing it several times; of course, even the journalistic investigations and even the narrative have done so. We have used a metaphor in fact very right: the one according to which the mafia today dresses much more easily white collars of incense than with traditional clothes, that is how we have known it for many decades. We have also had the opportunity to read - I insist - significant and important journalistic investigations. Think about what a brave and brave journalist like Lirio Abbate wrote a few days ago, when he told us how money has become much more effective than weapons, because they make no noise, because they open the doors, because they cause much less serious penalties. Over the course of these years, we have learned how mafias increasingly use corruption as a real strategic factor, an instrumental factor in the mafia expression. We have now experienced a very significant penetration of criminal organizations even in so-called non-traditional areas: even, indeed, often, in the Centre-North of the country. However, in view of this analysis which we have done, shared, which now sees the common agreement of a very significant part of this Parliament too, we have not been able to adapt legislation that is up to date. This is what Franco Roberti said recently, in a much more precise way than I can do: while we have had, in the past years, a certain contrast, in some positive and significant cases, to the mafia crime, the more traditional one - if I may say so - even in an emerging key, especially in the light of the massacre of 1992-1993, the contrast to corruption and economic crime, on the contrary, has not entered sufficiently into the strategies and objectives of the governments of recent years. Of course, something has been done, but this is obviously not enough compared to the data we are dealing with today. This is demonstrated - and has also been mentioned several times in today's debate - by the data on the prison population. Several Members have said this, and I also feel that I should like to stress this aspect which seems to me to be much more indicative of a thousand words: a prison population that varies, over the last five, six years, between 50,000 and 60,000 prisoners (now a little less than 60,000, also following the measures that this Parliament has taken in the past months). A small percentage, probably one percent, is in prison because they are convicted of crimes against the public administration; very few are convicted of sin; very few are convicted of corruption, the corrupters. It is clear that something has happened in this country in the last 20 years or perhaps something could be said not to have happened. It probably didn't happen that justice could actually look like a mechanism that speaks to civil society in this country. I have been quoted in this House several times, and I have also been debating with some of my colleagues on this very point. It is as if we had spent twenty years of republican history with a particularly careful and very often bad justice against those who are a little more excluded, those who are socially in a bit difficult conditions, those who are weaker, if we can use this expression, and rather weak, if not sometimes, even unable to develop an adequate contrast with those who are a little stronger. I also hear some colleagues from the right centre calling up some categories to which I am very sensitive. Sometimes I hear about guaranteeing. I would have liked to see a guarantee especially from the central right government of the past years that it was not on alternate plates. It was a bit of a comfortable guarantee: a lot of guarantee when it comes to crimes like these, corruption, peculatus and when it comes to the things that we are discussing tonight and a little less guarantee when it comes to other crimes. I have said so many times in this House. Think of the former Cirielli, a true ideological manifesto, the mirror of Italy of past years, the mirror of a political season. It was a very guaranteeing law against Previti and those like him, a law that cut the prescription, as we have well seen, but at the same time, it introduced concepts, such as that of repeated relapse, that were most guilty of having magnified the prison population and that have intercepted not the great open issues of this country, but have hit immigrants, the addict who goes to do the theft against the property, the socially excluded. This has been the mirror of Italy over the years. We have been a country unable to understand that under his eyes there were more serious crimes and social and political facts than those who were to be affected. We have been a distracted country with respect to these elements and these fundamental changes that crossed Italian society. We have had a lot to do with this data and we have then noticed many years after that in the end probably one of the reasons of the economic crisis in which our country sank has to do with this, with the fact that this economic damage that was being produced did not see adequate measures of contrast present. Now it's common practice, says Raffaele Cantone, but we all say so too, to interpret corruption as a tool used by pieces of ruling class to prevent free and real competition, removing even the best companies. However, legislation has not been able to act properly on these aspects. Think also of the anti-corruption law of 2012, which certainly some elements and some positive intuition has fortunately represented focusing, for example, on prevention mechanisms and betting on the fact (correctly in that case, in my opinion) that even within the public administration there could obviously be antibodies to fight corruption by providing, for example, transparency mechanisms on all the activities of unknown public bodies. However, these aspects have been too little articulated. This bill also serves this kind of difficulty, although it certainly sees us sharing some aspects of it. I do not quote them, because we will do so when we table our amendments to say the things we like the least. It is clear that some progress has been made, but there remains the sense of a missed opportunity and, that is, that this measure, which has been awaited for a very long time, could actually have put in place in this country not merely a form of adequate contrast with some phenomena, but a greater possibility to speak with this great piece of civil society that today asks this Parliament to be adapted to the demands of the country. Mr President, on the false in the budget, which goes through the last three articles of the draft law, there are some things that we will try to correct with the amendments that we have tabled. This is a strange country. It is a country in which, precisely, interceptions are abused and maybe conversations are intercepted that should not be intercepted and operations are done frankly questionable. Then, however, interceptions are not expected for a crime such as fake in the balance sheet for unlisted companies, namely that in the amendment we have tabled we will try to restore. I conclude by saying that what we are going to write in the next few hours could have been a very positive and innovative page of this Parliament. Unfortunately, on the other hand, it risks being once again a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u37	There is a representation of students from the Institute of Higher Education (Einaudi-Scarpa) in Montebelluna, in the province of Treviso, who yesterday, with another class, already had the opportunity to attend our work, to which our greeting goes. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the outcome of this debate and the process of this draft law is not surprising to the Five Star Movement. And it is not surprising to hear in this House fellow senators refer to the courageous officials of the public administration denouncing the wrongdoing as sycophants. Sycophants is a derogatory term, not to say infamous, and it stands for delators. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But that doesn't surprise us. The level of Parliament is represented by what has become this bill. It is no wonder that we come to this House to lie consciously - to use the expression so loved on that side of the House - saying that the increase in penalties does not serve as a deterrent against corruption, if we then have a Primo Greganti who, throughout his life, worked in that area, as a PD member, from 1992 until now, from convicted of clean Hands to sentenced for Expo 2015. And he is not in prison and is serving a ridiculous sentence: two years and a few months to spend quietly at home. But do we want to remember what is the use of the countries we admire, very often out of proportion? Do we want to remember what's going on in America? Do we want to remember what pain they inflicted in America on Michele Sindona for the crac of two banks? That's like 25 years in prison for two banks' crack! In Italy, tens of thousands of poor savers are being run over by people who are at times given a place in Parliament if they have not already done so sometime. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is a country that needs serious and serious punishment. It is not, in fact, serious that a person like Galan is at home serving his sentence and is still President of the Chamber's Committee on Culture! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Grasso bill, presented on the first day of the legislature and for which we fought, because we shared it, was something else than this coming out of the Commission, for which we were not able to do anything there. We still hope in the House and in the resistance of our colleagues, that they will hear the voice of conscience, the voice of the country, which says that corruption is not only the first problem, but that it was the highway that distributed capillatively throughout the country the mafias, which did not infiltrate themselves, but are rooted in it. And the main door from which they entered all the public administrations of the North and the Centre was corruption. Now it's a national problem. We must separate the sick relationship between public administration, mafias, corruption and sick politics. The original bill had its own facility. It had within it - for example - an article 416-b, which had nothing to do with that shame that you voted last year, which is an act that the Supreme Court says is more favorable to the deed. But is it clear to you what the expression "more favorable to the guilty" means, when here we are dealing for victory, in the fight against the Mafia, the approval of a norm more favorable to the guilty than the previous one? Do you know what that means? Do you know what a favor it was to the mob criminals? And I am not referring to the penalty discount, which - as you know - has become ridiculous, having been reduced by 42 percent: an edittal penalty that, at the very least, has been reduced to four years becomes nothing in courtrooms. I am referring to something else, namely the reference to the Mafia method. We are certain, in fact, that from now on we will find telephone or environmental interceptions of a conversation between a boss and a politician, who contract votes in exchange for money, other utility or a provision, in which the politician - obviously on the recommendation of his lawyer - specifies loudly, perhaps twice: I recommend that you find my vows, but not with a mob method. In this way, if there is an environmental interception, he will be sure to get away with it. It's not a joke, because I'm sure we'll find intercepts like that, and that's what the Court of Cassation said, and that's what all the judges on the front line say. With the bill under consideration, therefore, we had the opportunity to remedy it. Mr. Deputy Minister Costa, can you turn off the cell phone you're talking to for a second? The opposition is speaking in this House! We had, therefore, a way of remedying this scumbag, but it was not possible to make any changes, remove the reference to the mafia method and restore a decent penalty. Undercover operations were also planned: is it ever possible that, in order to combat corruption, we cannot do what is done against terrorism and serious crimes? You can't do it. You didn't want it. And what about private corruption? The country is paying a huge price, because it does not invest in Italy from abroad, because economic relations between individuals and with the public administration are sick. This is the truth: the American ambassador to Italy says so and not the 5 Star Movement. Yet, the rule on corruption between private individuals has been removed, not to mention self-money laundering. The Grasso bill provided for its dry equivalent to recycling; on the other hand, everything was done except to build a standard that could affect self-recycling. In this measure, therefore, we have only a few small increases in punishment. In fact, for the crime referred to in Article 314 of the Criminal Code there is an increase of six months in prison: this is the great increase in punishment that we have obtained. And all this in the face of a country that does not have the money to face the degradation of schools, to ensure health care and to avoid the massacres that happen when there is a flood. All the money that still exists in this country is directed towards a few great works, under the control of criminal laws, such as objective laws, and criminal structures, such as the mission structure of the former minister Lupi. And here we are filling our mouths with the great prevention capabilities of Cantone. But prevention of what? Poor Cantone runs after one disaster to another and has not even been able to intervene on Incalza. Is this, then, the great capacity of the structure that presides? The case of Incalza was before everyone's eyes and for more than a year we had denounced him in this House: he could not stay in that place, where you put him and defended him for a year. And there's more to it than just the Ministry. Do you know who's on that Ministry's EIA committee? There is a subject that is mentioned in the decision to dissolve for mafia of the Municipality of Reggio Calabria, and he is one who signs environmental impact assessments for the main works of this country, always in the same Ministry. It's not that small. Then there's an old P2 wreck and there's more. In short, it is a good Environmental Impact Assessment Commission. We don't miss anything. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] What we have is the announcements. The announcement is that the majority and Parliament are voting on an anti-corruption rule. But what's behind it? Little or nothing. We are here, and we have said so, Minister: we are ready to vote for serious, effective and true rules. You want to fight the mob? You want to fight corruption? We're here. You just have to call us. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I find it objective to find difficulties in making a critical judgement on the draft law that is before us today, first of all for technical reasons: in its most distinctive and popular part, namely the fight against corruption, the legislative initiative is reduced to a touch-up at the top of the penalties. It is, therefore, very little, Mr President, and I regret that people of culture such as Minister Orlando, like the original author of the bill, President Grasso, and like other authoritative members of the majority who supported this measure, have escaped Manzoni's teaching on the uselessness, in the face of the malfunctioning of a rule, of the tightening up, even if perhaps out of order, of the sanction. For the truth, already the alleluia of President Grasso and then again the tone of the voice of Senator Giarrusso, but more than anything else the content of the provision reminded me of the famous Manzoni screams, as I wrote in a press release before this reference also did, a few hours ago, in this House, Senator Malan. Those shouts, which were basically edicts, proclaimed by the bans (hence the word cries), for their constant changes and their contradictoryness, remained unenforced. Allow me to recall the words of the supreme author: Not yet that laws and penalties were lacking (...). On the contrary, the laws were deluding; the crimes were enumerated, and detailed, with minute prolissity; the penalties, crazyly exorbitant and, if not enough, increaseable, almost for every case, to the will of the legislator himself and of one hundred executors. These are the words of Alessandro Manzoni. Yet, now as then, lawmaking on the emotional wave of the moment certainly produces consensus in the short term, but it is not able to grasp the real and profound reasons of the corrupting phenomenon, nor to develop a strategy of effective contrast, which should instead be carried out through a revision of the norms ordinamental of the public administration rather than the punitive ones. Of course, colleagues - and this is the second cause for discomfort that I feel when I speak on this measure - it is not easy to stand up in this House and say that I am opposed to increasing the penalties for the corrupt. And yet, when we are clear in conscience, as I am and - let me say - as we are on this side of the House's hemicycle - we are all convinced of this - that a law is perfectly useless, then we have a duty to stand up and declare our opposition. We have a duty to say this, we have a duty to do so, even if only because of the obligation to bear witness to a Parliament that has not remained - at least not all - enthralled by the mystification of populism and demagogy. In other words, Minister, what really needs to be changed is the provisions on local self-government, health care companies and the economy - on the one hand - by no longer allowing any policy to affect, even at the time of appointment, the work of managers and, on the other hand, by simplifying administrative procedures, by limiting - this yes - even in an extreme way the power of bureaucracy over the lives of citizens and businesses. But how can you escape that the greatest revolution in the fight against corruption would only be to free the citizen and the entrepreneur from the need to obtain the benevolence of this or that official or executive, big or small? We then set certain and guaranteed times for administrative procedures, with generalized mechanisms and without exceptions of silence-consent in all areas of the private initiative. In short, it is necessary to prevent the citizen from knocking on the executive's door as a subject in difficulty. That is the way, but you of the majority will never do so. You will never do this because, in doing so, you would cut at the base the social origin of your consent, which comes from the distorted use of power, from small municipalities to health districts, from police offices to the great anti-chambers of your ministers. It is therefore necessary to change the rules of administrative action in order to make it more streamlined, transparent and effective, without creating yet another Authority with attached new bureaucrats, magistrates out of role, and procedures that unnecessarily or unnecessarily supervise the administrative procedure. President Palma had tabled an amendment to the Commission - he said earlier - which replaced the world of science with politics with reference to the power to appoint the leaders of the local health units. The health world is the most interesting in terms of the possibility of corruption, as it has most of the country's resources to distribute to citizens. Well, that amendment which took away the power from politics to appoint directors-general, thus intervening in advance, entrusting this power to the world of science, you have rejected it. Then you must give a comprehensive response to the country about your refusal, otherwise it is difficult for you to support your fight against corruption. Coming to the examination - if we can say so - of the merit of this salvific and thaumaturgic provision, can be silenced the irrationality of increases of punishment that have placed on the same level of crime that, for a very long and undisputed tradition, have always been on different levels of sanction, such as the sin and corruption. I told you this morning by explaining my question of constitutionality. The Constitutional Court will intervene, as it has done in the past on the sanctioning power of the legislator when this creates imbalances: it intervened with sentence n. 68 of 2012, declaring the constitutional illegitimacy of the norm on the seizure of person for the purpose of extortion, provided for in article 630 of the penal code, for the excessive rigour edittale. Coming to the other real totem of this bill, that is the new discipline of fake in the budget, here too can help - let me, please - a poetic quote: There is something new today in the sun, indeed ancient. Forgive me, Giovanni Pascoli. The poem is the kite. But the new wording of Article 2621 of the Civil Code recalls so much the situation prior to the 2005 reform. Yet, that reform of 2005 did not come by chance, but after decades of doctrinal debates, which had highlighted the many distortions and degenerations of the system at the time in force, and which in 2015 are being re-introduced. Who of us, who of you remembers the Mirone project, approved as a draft law by the Council of Ministers of 26 May 2000, certainly not by a center-right government, but by a center-left government, which already introduced correctives and solutions, then adopted by the legislator of 2005? I believe that none of you remember this, because it still legislates - as I have already said - with the logic of the instant book, which pursues the easy and immediate success of the public where the laws should be made - it seems almost absurd to have to remember and emphasize it here - to last. You change them overnight. Here, then, is my memory, quoted earlier, of the Manzoni cries. The alleged novelty would be to increase the sentence to five years, as expected before the 2005 reform, and to make the crime punishable, except entirely marginal, by ex officio. It is not understood then - and here the Minister should give me a help and an answer - as never before, in order not to be punishable by the particular tenuity referred to in the very new and, for the truth not yet entered into force, Article 131- bis of the penal code, has been made - rightly, I add - reference only to the damage caused to society, to the members or to the creditors. Would it not have been more correct, then, to put the decision on the processability of such offences back on these very subjects - by chance, are those to whom the law in force gives the right to sue? Would it not have been more consistent with the appeal that the Government introduced with its amendment, referring to Article 131- bis of the Criminal Code? The fact, ladies and gentlemen, is that the first inevitable victims of this way of law-making, so much aimed at the announcement effect and the contingent return to the media, are the consistency and systematicity of the choices. But what do you want them to count, in relation to the inexorable road map dictated by our ineffable President-in-Office of the Council, for certain research into the organic nature of the system and the prudent assessment of regulatory systems? Mr President, on my behalf, I have no fear of voting against this bill. For all the reasons I have tried to summarize in my short speech and for a thousand others, which unfortunately I have not had time to explain to you, I oppose this measure which I do not hesitate to define as dishonic, crude, volitional, contradictory, unconstitutional, approximate and above all - and is the most serious defect of a law - flatly and irreparably useless. [[Applause from Senator Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u41	She is registered to speak Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I admit that I take the opportunity to debate this measure, which - as has been widely explained - affects the criminal aspect, in order to ask my colleagues and the Government for some attention on the whole of what we call a corrupting risk. In view of the debate that has taken place in this House and in the Commission, as well as the public debate that preceded and accompanied our work, I do not think it is necessary to say anything about the seriousness of the Italian situation in relation to the spread and rooting of corruption. This is certainly a very important cost, but not only. In fact, I would like to add a few elements to the fact that it also poses a risk to the environment and to the same resistance capacity as seismic-risk buildings. And it is an extraordinary multiplier for reducing the goodness of institutions, parties and politics, because it leads our country to a dry loss of authority and respectability in the international framework. But just when a phenomenon is so impressive - and I am referring to the attention which, of course and rightly, public opinion and ourselves reserve on the subject - arouses such strong indignation and has such a negative impact on the reputation of public actors, I think we need to recover a coldness of analysis and a rational search for solutions that, sometimes, public debate fails to offer. But it's absolutely obvious. The criminal response is necessary - and I say in the premise of sharing this measure widely, so I will vote for it - but it is also the most strongly symbolic, even if - we know - it arrives after the corruptive fact has been committed, because it is connected to the occasionality of the investigation and its discovery. I am afraid it no longer serves as a general prevention function as much as we would expect and how we would like it to be. We also know that the slowness of the trials, which can certainly be compensated for by an increase in the useful time before the prescription, nevertheless deprives the judicial response of its strength, even its deterrent force. I think it was essential, after so many years of asking for it, to introduce a new case of money laundering and to restore the crimes involving fake money in the budget and false communications. But I also believe that we must not stop and close the fence of the debate exclusively on the subject of the speeches on the penal code. It also seems to me that the public debate that is inflamed risks losing coldness of analysis while, if we really consider so serious the presence of the corruptive risk in our country and so deeply rooted and dangerous the presence of corruption in our system, it would be good that some messages, which are leaders of public communication, were analyzed with a certain coldness. The first message is that "the" solution to the problem is in the penal code. Personally, I don't think it's just that. The other message that is being constantly spread - just follow any talk show on the subject - is that our country does not have adequate tools to counter the production of corruption and, therefore, to prevent and intercept it. It's a wrong and false message. The third message is that new system laws must be put in place. Someone might think that these protests of mine show a calming me in the face of the situation. I'm not saying that at all. I am saying, on the contrary, that they exist in our system and are now enriched - I would say from month to month if not from year to year - a series of instruments that we are not able to make work. Let's figure out why. I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues and the Government to some facts and I could begin by saying that we have a so-called little treasure, that we cannot use and sometimes forget to have, that it is based on a statement that is already contained in our order, or rather it is contained the sharing of this statement as the basis of a series of instruments that we already possess. I refer to the assertion that there is an inseparable link between efficiency, the integrity of public administration and corruptive risk: ultimately, between quality of administrative performance and corruptive risk. Sounds like a rite statement. Yet, we have loaded into our system a series of measures that - I say with great secularism - have entered into the order under absolutely different governments by political sign, whose aim was exactly to draw virtuosity in the ascertainment, prevention and interception of the corrupting risk, linking to the performance of the public administration the integrity of the public administration, the publicity of his works and what was produced in reality from the point of view, precisely, of the risk of corruption. But we did it Italian. I am referring to our inclination - I would say very serious flaw, which is also of each of us, and no one can disassociate, as a party to the legislative assembly - to add available provision, considering that writing, approving and publishing in the Official Journal produces participating realities for the purposes of the measures. It wasn't and it wasn't. That's why I say it takes coldness of analysis. It has come to the point that these measures have been the victim of a transformation: they have lost their original mission and have translated into a further load of bureaucratization without effectiveness. Let me give you some examples. Public administrations are called every year, and not in the same cadence, to present more plans (plans or plans audits), which are then also valid for three years. Therefore, there are the plan against corruption, the plan for transparency and integrity and the plan that concerns the performance of public administrations: three obligations that weigh on our administrations and have become the formal fulfillment that, good or bad acquitted, should in itself, as a formal fulfillment, be able to face the corruption risk. It wasn't. And these are measures on which Parliament has worked with great care and with great enthusiasm, but which have unfortunately been reduced, in their practical application, to mere proclamation. And they have induced, in the civil servants and in the public administrations addressed to this measure, a sort of addiction to consider these fulfillments out of every real mission, only one thing that must be done, because we have to send back the cards to the DAC rather than the Ministry, rather than the Authority on public works, rather than the Authority on contracts, without the ability to understand and act instruments of this importance. You see, already here it is revealed that we do not always need new laws - in my opinion, they almost never serve - but we should be able to make what seemed like a legislative culture, moreover very often determined by inputs that came to us from the European Union or other international organizations, living matter in the administrative and institutional culture of our country. And how not to remember that our system does not have only Law No. 190 of 2012; it does not have only Law No. 94 of 2012; it does not have only Law No. 135 of 2012. These are two laws - for example - which concerned the spending review, but they closely linked the reduction of public expenditure to the rationalization of public administration. And yet, it does not only have Law No. 213 of 2012, or Law No. 221 of 2012, or the many legislative decrees, decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and ministerial decrees that have attempted to bring within the Italian public administration the end of prevention and contrast related to the quality of administrative performance. These are essential instruments, which probably need to be considered, to see whether to make them work depends also on a lack of attention from political decision-makers. It's possible. It is possible that, even in our work as parliamentarians, and in terms of our ability to control the government's actions, we have not put trust in that model, which is not the penal model of "we increase the penalty," but it is, together with that, the model of control over the administration and activation of every instrument that can be useful, because this too has often become propaganda. And so now I'm gonna say some things that are probably uncomfortable to hear, and they may even sound shocking, but I think it's necessary to say. It's possible I'm wrong, but we're here to argue and see. On the cycle of public administration performance, there is likely to have been a lack of attention from policy makers. The evaluation of the performance of public administrations and individuals is another issue, colleagues, which does not work. In times of crisis, what is returned by the administrations, also with regard to the evaluation of individual managers, is that we are always at the top of the evaluations. That's not possible. That data is not real and is not real because someone coffins, but because they do not really want to make an evaluation, that is not done in the abstract and that needs a very precise and also annoying job, in order to identify the standards, the objectives, that may not be immediately 100 percent, but that they see a virtuous approximation with the final results. Then, of course, there is the great chapter of public works. In the same way, colleagues - and this is a shocking thing, probably, for colleagues in the 5 Star Movement - we have invested a great deal on the transparency and publication of all possible data, beyond the malfunctions, so that the same data are published by three different authorities or must be sent to three different authorities or an effort is being made to find data that are often already in the databases of public administrations. But I fear that too much transparency means no control. I would prefer that we make the effort to select the data that is really relevant, to find out whether there is something wrong with that contract or that public contract. [[Recalls of the President]] I'm almost done. Public works contracts have a few more problems. These are not standardized goods and, therefore, there is a temptation for very high opportunistic behavior. Now I have run out of time and I will only point to titles, but I am throwing an idea to this House: would it not be possible to think of an evaluation of the result based on two elements (the so-called red flags), costs and delays, which are normally the most effective indicators, much more than all others, about the fact that there is something that does not work? Could we not also introduce the issue of standard costs for public works? Why does a piece of rail in Italy cost 700-800 percent more than the average of other European countries? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Similarly - let me tell you - why after Tangentopoli the Milan metro saw a reduction in costs of 40-50 percent? Maybe we should demand this. Why then could we not think that contractors should be organized on a list, so that, taking the most virtuous average, we can assess the deviation from this list so that important businesses and businesses can be included in the list? Why, when we decide how the cost of a work is determined, can we not discuss again whether it must go to the auction or must have a fixed price, compared to the opportunistic behavior that can be developed? I shall conclude because I no longer have time, but these are the issues we should be passionate about. I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because I refuse, even with our speeches, in this House, outside, in the newspapers and in the talk shows, to resign myself to the idea that Italy is an irreparably corrupt country, and I am not content with the fact that ten, one hundred, a thousand corrupt people go to jail. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Alicata]] I would like a country that works and that is able to intercept before, to reject, to break this country air suitable for corruption, which unfortunately risks being a connotation of our country, in the reading and vision that, even in the rest of the world, Italy is given. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations. Comments by Senator Giarrusso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u43	Senator Giarrusso, don't worry. The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u46	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask a moment of attention because what I am saying deeply regrets me and should regret the whole Senate Assembly. Several times I have heard the City Council as an example, almost in a derogatory sense, as if it were a place of lesser importance than this, but, alas, this House must learn from the municipal councils and provincial councils to answer questions and questions. This is crazy. [[Applause from Senators Alicata, Cioffi and Cuomo]] It is absurd: I had to present an interrogation of the questioning, because we do not respond, because we do not respect the Rules of Procedure! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We make laws that do not respect the Rules of Procedure: it is an offense to the role of the senator, to the role that leads - through the institute of the inspection union - to the demands of the citizens. It's time to get this over with! We have been waiting for answers for two years, since this parliamentary term was established. It's time to get this over with. It is time for the President of the Council, Mr Renzi, to call his ministers to their role. I have a list of questions and questions that I have tabled, but what is the point, Mr President? They are words in the wind; words that cannot be answered, when there are obligations that within fifteen to twenty days must be answered: maybe! Don't answer. Perhaps you would answer in some way, even without giving an answer, but the answer is a duty, if we want that regulation to make sense again, otherwise we come here to speak and all our requests are not heard. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I hope that these words - and I apologise for the emphasis I have made on them - will serve something; they can still give courage to those who take their time to bring the citizens' demands to this House. I make the list, I kept it last...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u47	Conclude, Senator Amidei. I have to close at 8 p.m. and your colleagues have a right, like you, to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u48	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). I do my job, unfortunately, in vain to make the list of questions to which I have not received an answer. But I'll do it anyway. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Amidei, you can turn him in. AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). I'll turn him in. Let's hope so. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u51	PHASE (PD). Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to remind the House of Silvano Bacicchi, Senator of the Republic for three successive legislative acts (in the VI, VII and VIII legislatures), of which the funerals have been celebrated today. A prominent figure of the left of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, in particular of Monfalcone, the city of the yards. A prominent figure also throughout the Isontine area. Always consistent in the political commitment, active militant of the PCI since 1944, we remember him for his leading role as partisan of the brigade Garibaldi and the brigade Fratelli Fontanot. What I want to remember most about him is his story: first mechanic apprentice of the yards, where he worked immediately after middle school, then turning. A simple person, a person who comes from the blue suits. In 1948 he was secretary of the PCI of the Monfalcone section, after having little escaped the capture by the Germans. He was a supporter of the constitution of the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region and its autonomy; he held the position of adviser since the first Regional Council. He worked in the Senate in various Commissions, in particular in the Permanent Committee on the Budget and in the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services, but above all he was engaged in the difficult process of reconstruction of Friuli after the earthquake, working in the Special Senatorial Commission for the earthquake and then in the reconstruction of Friuli and Veneto. He was a passionate defender of constitutional principles and, as Leopoldo Gasparini of Gradisca writes, with whom he worked, recalling his figure, was not the product but the architect with many other street companions of a working-class epic, a path of cultural and political growth that involved two generations. Silvano Bacicchi, among other things author of a book recently presented, just on July 25, 2014, in a packed hall of the Municipality of Ronchi dei Legionari, entitled "Riflessi of a Great War" leaves a great void in the world of historians, intellectuals, but also in the world of young people and students, who loved to tell about his epic events of war, his great commitment to the causes of equality and social justice. He was an honest, clear and speechful person who left, beyond all belongings, a deep trace between his blue suits. It also leaves here, in the Senate, and in our territory an exemplary testimony of commitment, passion and coherence in support of values that we are all obliged to defend transversally. I am referring to the value of anti-fascistism and democracy. Thank you Silvano. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Piccinelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u52	The Presidency joins the memory made by Senator Fasiolo.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u55	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it seems to be done on purpose, but I too am again asking for an answer to an urgent question, the 3-01706, presented on 25 February, to the Minister of Health, Lorenzin, on the closure of a point of birth of Sulmona, which is the city where I live. I repeat the urgency of a reply from the Minister because entire populations are waiting for her. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to urge Minister Lorenzin. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We'll activate to report it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u58	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I will take you away for a minute to ask you to be an interpreter of the need on the part of the Government to give an urgent answer to the questioning 2-00253, recently presented. I believe the answer is urgent because it concerns a measure we took when we voted on the law on housing emergency which provides for a tax deduction of EUR 900 or EUR 450, depending on income, for those living in social housing. Now, as the definition of social housing is clear in the law but it does not appear clear to the Ministry of Economy and as this is the time when tax returns must be made, it is important to understand the Ministry's interpretation of this law and what it is preparing to enforce it. For us social housing is, as established by the law of 2008, public housing housing plus all non-profit housing rentals. If that is the definition, we are talking about many families who would be entitled to this deduction. It must be understood at this stage. Among other things, it is a solicitation that also comes from tax assistance centres (CAFs). Therefore, I would ask the President to press for this answer to come quickly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It will be our care to send your request to the competent Ministry.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u59	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-25-LEG17-Senato-sed-417.ana.u60	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 26 March, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8 p.m.
