ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 30 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u4	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00239 by Senator Taverna and other Senators, 1-00258 (text 4), tabled by Senator Amati and other Senators, 1-00267, tabled by Senator Cirinna and other Senators, and 1-00397, presented by Senator Fucksia and other Senators, on the promotion of culture against animal abuse. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting on 30 April the motions and agendas of the G1, G2 and G3 were presented and the debate took place. I call the Under-Secretary of State for Health, Dr De Filippo, to whom I would also ask you to give an opinion on the motions and agendas submitted. [[Brusio.]] Please, colleagues, lower your voices.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have seen from the debate that took place during the previous sitting, all the motions presented are moving on very complex trajectories which, due to the effects and in part also to the aspirations contained in many of them, will certainly demand further initiatives, both legislative and programmatic, in any case, in a framework that I personally certainly consider to be distinctive of our country with respect to the issue of animal welfare at Community level. Italian legislation, in fact, differs in many respects, and is also, in some cases, an exception at Community level. On a road which must be drawn up by Community directives and guidelines, I shall begin to give an opinion on each of the motions presented, first of all by saying that Europe has set itself extraordinary objectives, indicating in the Treaty, which has been mentioned several times, a new definition (that of animals as sentient beings). This element is emblematic in cultural and legal terms; it certainly outlines an important line that must of course be formulated in the balance and, in the context of the life of a community and a society, it certainly traces new paths in the matter of animal rights. On the basis of these elements, if the proposers have the willingness to listen, because there are many points that are indicated in the motions, I would make the Government's opinion synthetically in these terms. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u10	Undersecretary, I apologize if I interrupt you, but I really ask colleagues to lower their voices because otherwise the Presidency itself is unable to listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u11	DE FILIPPO, State Secretary for Health. With regard to motion 258 tabled by Senator Amati and other senators, the Government's opinion is favourable, provided that certain rewordings are accepted and that certain points contained in the operative part are included. The opinion is in favour of point 1 of the proposal, and we call for point 2 to be deleted. The opinion is also in favour of points 3 to 10, while on point 11) I am in favour of it, provided that it is reworded as follows: after the words "to invest" insert the words "in implementation of Legislative Decree no. 26 of 4 March 2014" (the one transposing the famous Directive on animal testing in almost all motions), and, after the word "to use" replace the period with the following: "and take an initiative at Community level to extend the ban on animal testing to cleaning products and their ingredients." On point 12 of the operative part, the opinion is also favourable, provided that it is reworded to include in the incipit the following words: "in compliance with the provisions in force" and so on. The opinion on point 13) is in favour, as is the opinion on 14), provided that its incipit is amended with the following words: "to consider whether to promote accession" etc. We then ask for the deletion of point 15) of the device, while on point 16) the opinion is favourable, provided that, after the words "invasive alien species" are added the words: "in compliance with Regulation No. 1143 of 2014." We therefore call for point 17 to be deleted, whereas on point 18 the opinion is in favour, provided that it is fully reworded as follows: To evaluate the opportunity to begin a deepening on the topic of traveling shows, also to the outcome of the ongoing confrontation between the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Cultural Heritage, which formed the specific commission to evaluate this particular problem of traveling shows. On points 19 to 21, the opinion is in favour, and we are calling for the issue to be dealt with on 22 January. On point 23), the opinion is in favour, provided that it is reworded in such a way as to include, after the words "the opportunity to proceed," the following: "A reasonable period of time has elapsed since the entry into force of Article 131-a of the Criminal Code." This is an amendment that Parliament has approved for a few weeks, and we therefore ask for a reasonable time to monitor it, as requested. Motion 239, first signed by Senator Taverna, contains two points in his device. The first opinion may be favourable, provided that it is reworded as follows: It shall promote, in compliance with Community provisions as transposed at national level, initiatives to inform and disseminate alternative methods to animal testing, eliminating the remaining part. In the second point of the device is proposed the activity of training courses aimed at university students and research professionals: since it is a specific initiative being developed by the Ministry of Health, which is preparing an interministerial decree on the case, the opinion is favourable. The operative part of motion 267, first signed by Senator Cirinna, consists of three points on which the opinion may be favourable, provided that the following rewordings of similar content are accepted. With regard to point (1): to consider the desirability of launching an initiative at Community level aimed at revisiting export initiatives to third countries. With regard to point 2, the relative incipit should be amended as follows: to consider the desirability of launching an initiative at Community level to promote adoption in the countries concerned, etc. Similarly, the incipit of point 3 should be amended as follows: "to assess the desirability of launching an initiative at Community level to promote adoption in countries" etc. The commitments proposed by Senator Cirinna are characterized by a scale of decision that is not the national one, it is therefore necessary to provide for these new incipit. With regard to motion No 397, at the first signature of Senator Fucksia, we propose a rewording of point 1) of the device - similar to that of other motions, including that of Senator Amati - in line with what has also been indicated in other opinions. The opinion is in favour, provided that the formula is inserted in the incipit: "in compliance with the provisions in force" (this is veterinary medicine). On the second point of the operative part, the opinion was in favour. On the third point, it is in favour, provided that the commitment is reworded with a new incipit, i.e. to assess whether it is appropriate to prepare it. The opinion is also in favour of points 4 and 5), provided that the incipit is reworded as follows: "to promote, in compliance with Community and national law, initiatives on the use of alternative methods to methods which are used, etc. The opinion was in favour of points 6 and 7 of the operative part. With regard to the G2 agenda, presented by Senator Fattori and other senators, the opinion was in favour of a proposal for a rewording. Since the premises indicate the name and surname of a director of the Ministry of Health, for the truth also in terms of appreciation of his work, the proposers of the agenda are invited to indicate the office and not the name of the manager. If this request is accepted, the opinion is in favour. On the G3 agenda, presented by Senator De Petris and other senators, the opinion was in favour. With regard to the agenda presented by Senator Giovanardi and other senators, if the latest wording, which amended the third point of the device, is confirmed, the Government's opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u14	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I would ask the representative of the Government to repeat the rewording of the first commitment of motion 239, at the first signature of Senator Taverna. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the government representative if he would like to clarify the proposed reformulation immediately.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u15	Yes, Madam President. The Government is in favour of point 1) of the device, provided that it is reworded as follows: "to promote, in compliance with Community provisions as transposed at national level, " (I am of course referring to legislative decree No 26 of 2014, transposing the famous directive of 2010) " initiatives aimed at informing and disseminating alternative methods to animal testing". On the basis of our proposal for reformulation, the commitment would stop here.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u18	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I would like to ask for further clarification. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Just clarification, because then we have to vote. GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, at a time when there are arguments in the motions that deserve a special debate... President. There is no more time for debate. GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). When in point 2 of the motion No 397, which was signed by Senator Fucksia and to which the Government gave a favourable opinion, it is said that the Government is committed to adopting a policy of greater contrast to the crimes against animal sentiment, infuriating - an aspect that concerns the Justice Commission - personal and financial penalties, I wonder what the crimes against animal sentiment are, because before voting something needs to be understood what is voting. So, what are crimes against animal feelings? PRESIDENT. - The debate is We are not at the stage of the debate, we are at the stage of the government's assessment of motions and agendas. DE FILIPPO, State Secretary for Health. I can say that these statements and indications have already existed in national legislation since 2004. So, we're in line with an activity... JOHNARDS (AP (NCD-UDC)). It will be against animal abuse, not animal sentiment!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u19	Please, we're not reopening the debate. We're in another phase. The government has illustrated and we thank the Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u22	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating four motions and three agendas which deal very clearly with the same subject, but which ask the Government for a little different commitments, so it is true that Mr De Filippo himself has just given indications and requested amendments. The promotion of culture against animal abuse is under discussion. I would like to be very clear from the outset: the Northern League Group also clearly agrees with this. Some motions have an articulated premise. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u23	Senator, stop for a second. I really ask the House to lower its voice. It is impossible to follow the debate and explanations of vote. Please. I ask everyone, please, to the right, to the left and to the center.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u24	Please, Senator Council. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, thank you. I said that the motions have an articulated premise, with many references to Community laws which - I hope - we hope will converge in a single text. [[Brusio]] ... There's Senator Taverna here doing a rally, and then I'll do the same thing when she makes the explanation of vote. The Government is asked, in general, to promote initiatives aimed at informing and disseminating alternative methods to animal testing, with the aim of progressively abandoning the use of animals to scientific uses until their complete replacement. It is also called for to promote training courses for students and researchers for alternative methodologies in order to improve the quality of science. Last week, during the sitting on Thursday morning, we saw the general debate taking place in the Chamber, when we came to explain these motions. The tenor of the motions, albeit with quite similar arguments, showed, if anything, the fact that the different sensibilities on such a difficult subject more than unite, divide (this seemed to me to understand). The obligation to experiment on animals - we want to remind you here for those who listen to us from home - occurred after a single event, which occurred in 1937 in the United States, where, with the administration of a new antibiotic, 107 people died; the drug was then administered to animals, who died in turn. In 1938, the U.S. Congress, without questioning whether such an event could infer proof that all animal species reacted in the same way to the various chemicals, therefore passed a law that obliged pharmaceutical companies to prove the safety of their products; hence, animal testing. It certainly wasn't the first time, but it certainly was the law enforcement of this system. At this point, there's a question. There is a great deal to be said about this, and there is certainly a wide-ranging debate. This is certainly a complex subject, and this is where the debate, which already took place last Thursday, between those in favour and those who are against it, opens up. Thursday, during the illustration, we had proof that the ways of seeing on this subject are completely opposite. We also asked ourselves the question as a Group. You will have noticed that the Northern League Group has not tabled any motions or agendas, but it has tried, with this explanation of vote, to participate in a debate that we consider interesting, but sometimes not always useful. Someone from home asked me why we are not talking about more important things like work, unemployment or GDP that is not there, and I simply replied, so as not to sink the blade into the plague, that we too are talking about the issues that come to this House. The main question is whether the studies on animals are useful or useless. There are those who claim that they are useful because animals and humans share genes, mechanisms and biological functions that make animals a good model to understand what happens in our species. On the contrary, there are those who consider them useless because they are organisms too different from the human being. It is a fact that animal research has allowed and allows to cure or to soothe the main diseases of man, such as cancers, cardiovascular diseases, neurological, infectious and even genetic diseases. The other question is whether we can look for an alternative method to experimentation and, perhaps, this is the mother of all the questions, which, according to my way of seeing things, someone has tried clumsily to give an answer, even in the speeches at the end of the afternoon session on Thursday and on this should probably concentrate all the research efforts. The Undersecretary says that we must refer to European legislation, but if we have to refer to that legislation for everything, I do not know what kind of contribution our motions can give to Parliament and to the country. Motions are really articulate, but I am afraid that - and this has clearly manifested itself in general discussion - they will inevitably take an animalistic drift. Motions that in some places are also shared, but in others really fall into the porchesco. It is acceptable that we ask for the reinforcement along the entire production chain (even the Group of the League considers it necessary, so much so that it has presented measures in the Commission productive activities that lead to a different idea of labelling to understand the origin and the modalities of realization of our products, in order to prevent abuse and sophistication, alterations and abuses qualitative and economic), as is acceptable the desire to qualify more Italian production. There has also been talk of the crucial role of the veterinarian, as the animal issue has become an unavoidable problem of this same profession. One of these motions calls for it to be strengthened, but I am curious to see whether it will be based on what the Senator, as well as a veterinarian, said last Thursday in his qualified report, and whether this will be followed up. Then there was mention in some motions, one in particular, in Natura 2000. Natura 2000 is the main instrument of the European Union's biodiversity conservation policy. It is an ecological network spread throughout the Union to maintain the natural habitats of species of flora and fauna. Natura 2000 refers to the special conservation zones (ZSCs), the sites of Community interest (SICs) and the special protection zones (ZPSs), which cover 19% of land and 4% of marine land and in these places, Madam President, there is already a ban on the killing of wild animals. It is different if with point 15) of the motion at first signature of Senator Amati, of which I was very pleased to see the representative of the Government ask for the elimination, one wants to put to the label the question of the absolute prohibition of hunting. If this is the commitment that is being asked of the government, then our movement cannot share it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The Government is also asked to undertake to monitor whether non-criminality in cases of animal offences is effectively excluded, in accordance with Article 131-a. I would remind you that this Group has reiterated its total opposition to this article because of the serious blow to the citizens for the criminal cases that it was going to bring together, which create and create serious social alarm. The motion also calls for appropriate regulatory changes to be made in the event of negative results being monitored. Well, Madam President, if this happens, you will see us in the front row to even ask for the deletion of this article or we will absolutely ask for its modification, so that it provides for the reinstatement of crimes considered in this same rule as futile (and here we should make a list of all these serious crimes that have been excluded). Then, Madam President, there is the spending review. This made me smile a little because it also hits the prison island of Gorgona: the prison administration must save and, therefore, give 165 animals, about half, for an annual savings of about 30,000 euros. It is therefore at risk the project of reeducation of the 70 prisoners of the penitentiary of the island itself. This re-educational path is repeatedly called upon in some motion with cattle, pigs, sheep and goats, which are clearly not used for production or for prisoners but only to develop activities related to prisoners. All this would take place in the beautiful setting of the national park of the Tuscan archipelago. Perhaps, Madam President, it was also necessary to include the 67 Gorgonese in the subjects to be saved: the country is falling apart, crumbling houses, broken links; perhaps this species was also to be protected. Then there is the legislation on laying hens. An EEC directive progressively bans battery farming. But do you know what really happened? Italy imports 50 million eggs and egg products only from Poland, 5.7 from Romania, 3.2 from Slovakia. Are we talking about animal welfare? Very good: some of these cages are sold in the East. Do we want to talk about GMO products? We in Italy fatten our animals because we need raw materials for food from foreign countries; it is a turn from 2.2 to 2.7 billion euros. Then we talk about the donkey race; we do not want to abolish it, for God's sake, and the same applies to the Siena Palio (there would be no more!); it occurred to me that the goose race was also an interesting thing. Then I also know some environmentalist who doesn't keep a geranium on the balcony because it's dirty or some animalist I see buying in supermarkets mountains of pet croquettes without taking care of what products are used for packaging. Instead, you should question the origin of the products that arrive on our tables: at times we cook steaks that from 30 square centimeters become as big as a small box of Simmenthal! I conclude with a very critical statement on the motions put forward. I would like to ask the House a question. On 16 April 2013, we presented motions on human rights. Madam President, I would like to ask the House: what happened to them and what happened to those rights that we have so expressly voted unanimously in this House? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u27	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, today, when we discuss motions for resolutions on the promotion of culture against the ill-treatment of animals, it may seem at first sight to be a subject a little out of proportion to the priorities of the political, economic and social contingency of recent years, but I would like to put before the House another reading which those who are interested in bioethics and biopolitics can be a substantive and non-functionalistic reading. To make explanations of vote on these motions requires a preliminary argument in order to avoid inconsistencies or blunders of statements which would take deprecable connotations that would have of the apodictic or the ideology. There are two fundamental questions to which we must answer. The first is: are there ethical limits that affect our conduct towards animals or does our action arise outside the moral sphere so that we can be free to behave without ethical questions, except those arising from our own sensitivity and conscience? The second question: if there are limits, what do they consist of? Are they due to the duties of human beings or to genuine animal rights? In other words, there are two languages. Either the language of moral and human obligations or the language of animal rights, which are different sides of the same coin. We could say that animal protection is the same as the two perspectives. Instead, there are significant differences, from which different consequences. The protectionist position, based on the duties of men, is certainly the most consolidated and, still today, the most widespread, as well as the one that has already been translated into regulations. It is to this protectionist position that I refer to for a reasonable orientation to ethical action. The theory of animal liberation and that of animal rights, more recent and problematic, both for arguments put forward and consequent implications on the behavioral plane and for anthropological reasons values, pose themselves as antithesis to the so-called specism, that is to say the affirmation of a superiority of man over animals. In the theory of animal liberation, although starting from the utilitarian position of Bentham (which said: The important thing is not to wonder whether they can reason, or whether they can speak, but if they can suffer, it is said that animals are able to provoke pleasure and worth; that is to say, between human and non-human animals (so in Peter Singer's classic definition) there is a substantial equality: the ability to suffer. While starting from this formulation, which nourishes every action aimed at alleviating, reducing or nullifying the suffering of animals, (and this is a passage that I tend to emphasize to the Assembly, as it goes to deeply affect the substantive conception of the human being), it is not recognized in some situations to the human being as such the status of person, vice versa by attributing the status of person to some animal species as aware of their existence over time and capable of reasoning. According to this current of thought, recognizing the nature of a person to a non-human animal is the prerequisite for the attribution of certain fundamental rights. I quote Peter Singer in his famous book "Life as It Should Be," where it is pointed out that anthropological reductionism can lead to such consequences. So says Peter Singer: Even if the comparison is not very pleasant, mice are indisputably more aware of what surrounds them and more able to react in ways aimed and complex to what they love or hate than is a fetus at ten or even thirty-two weeks of gestation. This statement does not require from me, nor from all of us, any other worthy consideration. Unsustainable, in a few words, is the alleged equivalence between man and animals, if not even the reduction to a lower hierarchical level of being as such in particular situations of his existence: healthy or ill-formed, handicapped, disabled, disabled, comatosis, that is, subjects not able to relate or not able, according to this current of functionalist thought, to fully develop the state of self-consciousness, deliberation and definition of what is good and what is not, of what is good and of what is not. They would not, that is, categorize themselves as moral subjects. In other words, the direction currently taken by animalist thinking is to extend the notion of subject, i.e. autonomous center of interest, self-consciousness and expectations to most of the so-called non-human animals. But is this the position of those who at this moment intervene on behalf of the Group for Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE? The answer is negative. While neglecting other aspects of the ethical state of the animals, it is evident that on the basis of these assumptions the natural hierarchy of values is radically subverted. It follows that the attribution of rights to animals is very controversial and subject to numerous criticisms, especially at the legal level: let us therefore move on to the part where we recognize the so-called animal liberation (Peter Singer) to another chapter, that of recognising rights to animals. Therefore, others - and it seems more challenging to me - are being placed on our attention. The first: What exactly is man's place in the universe? The second: what are the characteristics that distinguish him from other living beings? In the anthropocentric vision, even according to a shared biblical exegesis, man, more than master, is the guardian and curator of creation: he is not master, but he is the guardian and curator of creation. This is an anthropological vision that we can define as moderate anthropocentrism; this is the line of conduct that animates my intervention and this is the position, reasonable and acceptable, which represents the reference point in order to be able to express the vote on the motions presented. In the same Roman jurisprudence there are interesting rules on the treatment of animals, many of which are in favour of them, although they are rules issued to protect the interest of the owner or buyer. The same Tommaso d'Aquino, referring to the following Latin motto of Ovid: "Saevitia in bruta est internatioum cruelitatis in homines" (The cruelty towards animals also leads to cruelty towards humans), argued that animals should not be abused. This theory, also defined by jurists and bioethicists as that of indirect duties, was then reported by other authors and authoritatively recalled by various legislators and we can say that it characterized in itself the law n. 189 of 2004, laying down provisions concerning the prohibition of ill-treatment of animals. It is clear that what has been reported so far does not prevent animal testing. In fact, the slightest knowledge of biomedical research reveals its absolute necessity. It is evident and lapalissian to every researcher who has had a minimum of experience, at least at the laboratory level, to point out that animal experimentation alone is indispensable only when it is ethically justifiable. Furthermore, there is no alternative method that is also appropriate. Indispensable - to clarify and argue - means that it serves to provide answers to scientific questions of great importance concerning human life, although it is aware that some scientific conclusions from animal experimentation may have limits. All this, of course, does not prejudice the development of alternative or also defined complementary methods. In order to limit the number of animal trials and to carry out them effectively, the rule of the so-called three Rs applies today: replace, reduce, refine. Replacement (to be replaced) means replacing animal trials only where possible by alternative methods; reduction indicates the reduction in the number of animals used; refinement (refining) means reducing the severity of animal trials by using, where possible, specific methods that meet the needs of animals. Madam President, I would like to ask you for 30 more seconds before you finish, just to reiterate the indispensability of animal testing. It is enough to remember only some areas that have represented the progress not only of research, but that have meant the possibility for a man to achieve a well-being that is never absolute but always relative, as well as giving rise to a reduction of the very serious pathologies whose only list, here, would engage a whole session. So I believe that common sense and moderate anthropocentrism must push us to say that experimentation on animals is not only possible but is possible insofar as it meets those criteria of ethics, evaluation and fundamental anthropology that represent the point of reference for any argument that does not enter then, as very often happens, in the bioethical field as well as of the biopolitical order of the so-called apodictic and ideological dimension. For this reason, in conclusion, on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE, I declare the vote in favour of the motions for our examination as reworded according to the instructions of the Undersecretary. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u30	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, first of all I must confirm - I have already done so in my general debate - my difficulty and my embarrassment. I therefore call on the Presidency to clarify and deepen whether it is appropriate to address with the instrument of the motion infinitely broad arguments ranging from the problem of scientific research, researchers, and therefore of the fight against diseases, to those concerning the whole production chain of the breeding of animals and the relationship between man and animal more generally. In addition, there are a number of specific indications which initially concerned, for example, the great debate on hunting and its regulation and which was quickly resolved by the repeal of the hunting itself. The Government, in providing its guidance, has only confirmed the objective difficulty of taking a united and comprehensive position on motions of which each point deserves a separate discussion. For example, the problem of genetic mutations in food, animal nutrition and the underlying genetic problem should be examined separately from many other issues contained in the motions for our examination. I say now, therefore, that as a group we are inclined to vote in favour of both the motion and the agenda that I tabled together with the senator Cattaneo and other senators for life. I stress this because the fact that the senator wanted to share our position for us has a not indifferent political significance. We hope that this balanced position will be widely shared by the Senate. I would like to give three examples of Senator Amati's first-signed motion, specifically on the parties that had the government's favorable opinion. Firstly, when it is said that we must ban the export of live animals to countries outside Europe whose regulations do not guarantee the standards required by the European Union, do we know what that means? Are we aware of the self-limitation that, if this speech were taken seriously, we would put in place towards our exporters who deal with countries with traditions, cultures and religions other than our own? Or when it comes to: "encourage the adoption in importing countries of live animals from the EU, treatment standards equivalent to those used in the same Union also providing concrete support (...) to improve transport, slaughter methods (...)." But do you know that in Italy we are butchers for some Islamic countries who send their observers to slaughterhouses to ensure that slaughter is done according to their religion otherwise they do not care about meat? So what do we do? If we were to take seriously what is written in this motion, this would mean that our zootechnics essentially go into crisis and would also mean causing an accident at religious level because we would not respect a cultural and religious tradition felt very much in the Mediterranean, which would put us in direct contrast with that type of activity that has, for those countries, an absolutely important religious background. Or, again in the first-signed motion of Senator Amati, for example, we speak (and I can also share this passage) of promoting: "the census and the networking of the centres for the shelter and recovery of ill-treated animals, seized, confiscated, as well as actions for the definition of standards that allow the financing of them (...)". I am absolutely in favour of this because we do not understand where the animals that have been seized are going. When they're kidnapped, who's running them? What associations? How are they treated, given the latest scandals about treatment, which I do not want to call inhumane, but which is still offensive to the dignity of the animals kept in these farms, managed by whom? And why do they have to decide the standard? It is good, then, that the Ministry really does a census and does the inspections it has to do; then perhaps by law we regulate who is to guarantee the welfare of animals, if they are kidnapped following ill-treatment. Let me add another remark. Also in this case the diction may leave me puzzled (on this I have already intervened before), because we are talking about increasing once again the personal and financial penalties (which are already high) for the contrast of crimes against the animal feeling. I say this to Parliament once again: a shameful convention has been signed between the State Forestry Corps and Mr Brambilla (representing animalist associations). The Forest Corps, having small stars (such as the Police and the Carabinieri), should be a neutral organ; if it goes inside a laboratory or inside a farm, it should behave neutrally. But no: the training of the personnel of the Forestry Corps will be done by the animalist associations, who will also be consultants of the same Forestry Corps. Those who denounce, that is, the animalist associations, carry along as consultants those of the Forest Corps, who have been trained by them. In the trials they are called as advisors people of the animalist associations, who by law (this is already law) if they lose the trial they do not pay, because they pay the state, while if they win they take the compensation (so they collect only). Is it possible that the forestry body, the body of the state, is not impartial (especially in criminal proceedings) and is not used as a non-partisan advice? The Forestry Corps is there for the animalists, there is for the farmers, there is for the farmers direct, there is for those who have animals of affection and there is for the control of the environment, but it must protect the impartiality of its intervention. Then, when you want to aggravate your pain even more, you also have to ask yourself a question. I have heard some hints in general discussion: once again, in front of a bear that is beating a mushroom seeker and therefore attentive to his life, the bear is privileged, because it is said that the mushroom seeker has gone to disturb him in his natural habitat. Well, in general discussion I spoke of a hierarchy: first human beings, then animals and then plants. This reasoning must always be kept in mind, otherwise there are risks, for example in the field of research. This morning there was a press conference of the Gotha of Italian researchers, who explained disease by disease - I see here the former president of the medical order - as 90 percent of the diseases were eradicated through animal research and transplants (see Barnard). Today, in the cases of Parkinson's disease, cancer, Alzheimer's disease, HDV disease, life expectancy has been prolonged and a disease that was eradicated ten years ago led to safe death in six months doing what? Experimenting on guinea pigs, not men. So well, let us say, if this can be avoided; well, if there can be complementary mechanisms and tools to minimise the need for animal testing. But the 7,000 Italian researchers will all have to go abroad and Italy will no longer be able to have advanced pharmaceutical research; in fact, to patent a drug - we all know - you have to experiment on at least two animals, including a primate. If this experimentation is not done in Italy, there will be the end of scientific research and the end of hope, for men, women and children, to heal from their diseases. [[Applause from Senator De Biasi]] We ask every Italian citizen who has a disease if he does not think that research should help him, when he is at the point of view of necessity. Or we ask those who want to make fundamentalism do not use the drugs that come from animal experimentation, that is, almost all of the drugs, that - beware! - they are also used for animal welfare, because the animals are treated with patented medicines on the same animals (otherwise the animals could not be properly treated). So, I have considered several aspects confusingly - but I assure you that it is not easy to be clear about everything contained in these motions - noting that the Government has acted in such a way as to follow general guidelines, which we share, because animal welfare naturally is our heart, but it has also accepted our agenda, which is very precise. It recalls that the fight against disease and poverty has improved thanks to scientific and economic progress; therefore, with the progress and development of science it will be possible not only to find new cures for human diseases, but also to improve animal welfare. We do not save our soul in Italy with prohibitions and prohibitions, when in two thirds of the world animals are treated in an unworthy way, saying: we are good while others, those who have cultures other than ours, even from the economic point of view, put at risk our well-being because they do not have any of these right limits and constraints that we want to place. However, on our agenda we also want, when this type of reasoning is disseminated, to keep in mind that there is a Constitution of the Italian Republic, which is secular and republican, which recognizes the constitutional rights of people, who must respect animal welfare, but also freedom of research, freedom of breeding, freedom of transformation; those freedoms, that is, that are synonymous with a correct and fair relationship between man and animal. So, to conclude, with regret that each of the points - about thirty - contained in the other motions should have been deepened and discussed (for example, the huge issue of GMOs, which cannot be quickly settled in the middle of another thirty arguments); therefore, I repeat, with the regret that we cannot enter specifically into each of these arguments, since the Government has accepted our agenda, we will vote on all the other agendas presented, but not for what is specifically written. In fact, sincerely if I were to vote on the export ban or think that we must teach other countries, who have their own methodology and religious ties with slaughter, I know that I would do something not only wrong, but also provocative towards them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u31	Finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u32	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). The government, however, has translated this indication into an evaluation of a deepening; therefore, this allows us to vote in favour of the other motions, even with the reservations I have emphasized, and firmly in favour of the agenda that sees first signatories to the undersigned and Senator Cattaneo. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator De Biasi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u33	I address the greeting of the entire Assembly to the students and students of the Istituto paritario (Luigi Einaudi) of Scafati, in the province of Salerno. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u36	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, the purpose of the motions presented, as can be seen from the subject, is the promotion of culture against animal abuse, and therefore the implementation of the Lisbon Treaty. I would like to remind you of this because today I have heard many statements that frankly in Europe would not be welcomed in a positive way, because in the Lisbon Treaty the recognition of animals as sentient beings was officially enshrined, at national and European level. These motions have unfortunately seen their aim not fully satisfied: you, Madam President, will remember the debate on Thursday, which unfortunately, although you were also very passionate about very serious issues, took place in the presence of very few people. However, I would like to start again from the recognition of animals as sentient beings, as provided for in the Lisbon Treaty, which leads to a series of transpositions of certain commitments at the level of our legislation. Contrary to what has just been said in this House, some senators who, in my opinion, have begun to talk in vain about extremism and fundamentalism, the points of these motions, as we can see, are extremely calm and in line with developments over the last decade in our country, and throughout Europe on the subject of animals. In public opinion, in fact, there has been a constant maturation and growth of concern and attention for the protection of animals and their rights. I would just like to recall what Gandhi said, according to which the culture and degree of civilization of a country are measured by the way it treats animals, but also that in Jewish, Christian and Muslim religions the idea of fasting, of the Sabbath in the Jewish religion or of abstaining from the consumption of meat or products derived from animals on Fridays according to our old tradition - which almost no one now observes - derive from the desire to rest creation and its harmony, respecting at least one day a week the animals. This is to say that even in the monotheistic religious traditions, despite the strong subsequent anthropocentric imprint, there is actually a very clear message. I would like to read a few passages from the Bible in this regard: the fact that man - then the human species - has been given the custody of creation intends to submit to us, through the idea of fasting and the day when we refrain from consuming animal products or from killing animals, an almost sacred concept. In recent years, and especially in the last century, man has not been a good guardian of creation and the aspect of his relationship with other living beings, in my opinion, is what the motions for our examination intended to bring to the attention of this House from a cultural point of view. I am sorry that, once again, a number of commonplaces have been used. We know that, when it comes to promoting a different culture of respect for living beings, the battle before us is still very long and is first and foremost cultural, as is fully understood by listening to some of the speeches that have been made in this House. [[Applause from Senator Repetti.]] It is a cultural battle that should teach that respect for and protection of animals is also exercised towards the Planet and, I repeat, towards other living beings and human beings. The human species cannot survive unless it strongly recovers an idea of harmony and respect for other living beings. For me, this is the fundamental question that we should take even further into consideration, even with regard to the much vexed question of vivisection. I say this very clearly: we will not vote on the agenda at first signatures Giovanardi and Cattaneo [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and M5S groups and Senator Repetti.]] That is, in my opinion, a darkening agenda. [[Applause from Senators Bonfrisco, Taverna and Repetti]] , since when we tried, both in the transposition of the directive and through the debate in the House on motions to protect the rights of animals and on the points present in these motions, to make our country take a step forward in scientific research, we were accused of being obscurantists; I repeat, a step forward in scientific research, because science is not something neutral for which there is an absolute truth that only someone possesses. Science, which is also research and experimentation, should remember first and foremost that it is ethically and socially sustainable, and this concerns human beings as experimentation on animals. Ours was an attempt to take a step forward. This obscurantist position may also cost us several billions, which our country will not be able to use in the framework programmes funded by the European Union such as Horizon 2020. We are talking about billions that damage research because we need to invest in alternative methods, unless there are other interests. [[Applause from Senators Repetti and Bonfrisco]] But then the obscurantism is of those who continue in a fundamentalist way to claim that there are no alternative methods, that we must not promote and invest in research because in reality there are other interests to protect - this is the truth - on the skin of people and animals. We pretend to defend the health of our citizens, but that is not the case, Mr President. Last Thursday I think I have already brought a number of arguments. I'll quote them one more time. Advanced advertising is that adult medicines cannot be given to children, so those medicines cannot be used even on our babies. Think of the effect they can have on the human species of drugs tested on different species. It's not like that, and you know it! There have been many cases, so much so that in order to patent the drug it is indispensable to switch to human experimentation. I therefore believe that it is in the interests of citizens' health, and therefore of medical and pharmacological research at the service of citizens' health, to invest in alternative methods. [[Applause from Senator Bonfrisco]] We cannot pretend that this does not exist. On the other hand, there are positions - I repeat - that are truly obscurantist that prevent in this country, even on the specific occasion of the great European funding, from being able to obtain resources to finance, invest, implement and train on alternative and in vitro methods. This is the pure truth. Evidently - I say this here and I repeat this - there are very little noble interests behind this whole affair. There are very little noble interests. That's the truth. We will vote in favour of the motion that bears my signature and those that have as first signatories respectively the Senators Amati, Taverna and Fucksia because, even with the rewordings, they try to make serious arguments about experimentation, alternative methods, animal welfare and farms. I do not return to a number of issues that have already been discussed in general. Some reformulations proposed by the government representative on the Amato motion and others, frankly, are not very acceptable. For example, when motion 258 (text 4) calls for paragraph 15 to be expunged, which calls for a ban on the killing of wild animals, the Government responds that the hunting law should not be affected. Well, I hope that this is the Government's position always, even when we try, in the environmental connection, to revise, by making it worse, Law 157 of 1992. I therefore take the floor to the Government, which will therefore give an opinion against the amendments to Law No 157 of 1992! I welcome the favourable opinion on the agenda with regard to the Ministry of Health's task force. Among other things, we had asked a question because we consider the work done by the task force absolutely fundamental, because our country, for example, has abandoned the fight against straying and this represents a huge problem especially in the countries of the South of Italy. Once again, this is not just a battle of civilisation and respect for animal rights; it is also a battle for the health and safety of citizens. They are therefore very serious matters. Once again, we would have expected - I say this to the government - a little more autonomy - this yes - and more courage, because having courage on these issues could and will bring to our country only good from the point of view of progress, principles and rights of civilization, as well as from the point of view of the implementation of a truly ethically and socially responsible scientific research that can give very important results for our country. Let me finish with the question of travelling entertainment. I would like to remind you that the agenda on the use of animals in the travelling spectacle and contributions has been approved in conjunction with the Stability Act. I call on the Government and the specially established commission to stick to what this Senate voted in conjunction with the financial maneuver. Therefore, we will be proudly voting no on the agenda of Senator Giovanardi and Senator Cattaneo that perhaps if he applied his work to the Senate on other issues it would be more important. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Stay on the subject, Senator De Petris. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Finally, we shall vote in favour of all the other motions, despite rewordings that are not very welcome. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u37	We greet the delegation of the General Secretariat of the Civil Service of the CISL of Catania. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u40	FACTORS (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the absurdity is often reached in this House, but the absurdity and ridicule come to unimaginable levels when it comes to science and technology and when we try to exploit even small knowledge for our own personal interests. I have a history as a researcher and, therefore, I speak with knowledge of the cause. At this moment, however, I have to strip off the dress of a researcher because the two functions are different: one thing is science, one thing is politics, one thing is technology, another thing is ethics. Today we are talking about ethics, science, technology and politics. We try to keep these four floors separate because they are often mixed only to allow us to make our pigs comfortable, leaving the pigs aside because they are the smartest people in this comparison. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Ethics tells us that a large part of civil society is asking questions. As for the sensitivity of animals, pet animals have now activated what is a different conception of animals than in the past, both in the field of research, both in the field of food and in the field of fun (about the motions on circuses and itinerant shows). Why is this confusing? This confusion is being made for many reasons. I would like to bring you a good reflection by Valerio Onida, because you often forget what constitutionalists say, considered owls also in this case. Valerio Onida tells us to meditate on the difference between science and technology. Science has as its objective knowledge and there is no good science and bad science, because knowledge itself cannot be either good or bad. Another thing, however, is technology: technology is the science applied to human needs. Excuse me, Madam President, but in this confusion I honestly cannot speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u41	Speak for you, for me and for those who want to listen to the debate. I'm even tired of begging.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u42	FACTORS (M5S). Technology is another thing: it is science applied to society. Very often there is confusion in this House between these two aspects. Science, for example, studies genetics and tries to discover all the elements of DNA, while technology studies the application of genetics, for example to introduce GMOs into the environment, but then it is the policy that must decide whether or not it is appropriate to apply a technology. The same applies to nuclear research: the study of the atom is science, the scientist must take care of the study of the atom, then technology, if it is appropriate, applies this study to atomic energy and politics decides whether or not it is appropriate to build atomic power stations. The disaster intervenes when a scientist expresses his opinion on whether or not to build nuclear power stations, as happened in Italy with a well-known scientist, Veronesi, when the subject is not within his competence, nor is it his duty or right; in fact, one cannot use the popularity of which one enjoys on a scientific level to advocate political decisions as if they were scientific truths. That is what is happening in this House on the agenda for Mr Giovanardi-Cattaneo. Senator Cattaneo is a very good scientist when she deals with science, but when she mixes science and politics unfortunately creates monsters that are worse than GMOs she wants to introduce into the environment. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u43	Senator, I would also ask you to address this House and not to mention other senators and senators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u44	FACTORS (M5S). Mine is a personal consideration: what I have mentioned is an agenda that has given some visibility and some credibility because it is supported by a scientist, so I am trying to refute Senator Giovanardi's thesis. A scientist is not necessarily a good politician. In these days I have witnessed a great exploitation of our motions, which are essentially two, to which is added the agenda at my first signature. In the first-signed motion of Senator Taverna, it is very simply asked to respect the popular feeling towards animals and to promote initiatives to inform and disseminate alternative methods to animal testing; it is also asked to promote ad hoc training courses aimed at university students and research professionals. Well, what I have heard in this House makes no sense: it is not up to us to decide whether alternative methods can be implemented or not. Many of you probably do not even know that in Italy, at ISPRA in Varese, there is the European union reference laboratory for alternatives to animal testing; so in Italy we already have a laboratory at European level that deals with providing alternative methodologies that nobody knows anything about in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Simeoni and Repetti.]] It is therefore not up to us to decide whether alternative methods are possible or not: we, as politicians, must accept the public's request to promote this type of technology and offer it to scientists. There is another element I would like to refute. Many accuse us of having obscurantist attitudes towards scientists, but we do not believe that the latter are bad or sadistic, but we believe that they should be educated and helped to promote an alternative culture; and this is the object of our motions. Science never says anything is impossible. When I started working in the lab, there was still a dogma - a protein - and anyone who challenged it was accused of being a crazy obscurantist. Today, twenty years after I started that path, there is a whole part of epigenetics that shows that instead there is no longer a dogma, a gene-a protein, but that the environment can modify the genetic heritage of man. When we approve in Parliament measures such as those contained in the release of Italy on incinerators and polluted water, we should consider that the effects are affected, genetically modified, over three generations, from those who drink water and from those who suffer from the pollution of stem cells and the embryo. If I had made this statement 20 years ago, they would have taken me for a fool; now it is considered true. To affirm, therefore, that it is not possible to have alternative methodologies is unscientific. Science throws to the heart beyond the obstacle and sets itself goals even in the long term, which are unimaginable at this moment. Therefore, as a 5 Star Movement we are trying to go beyond the obscurantist vision that you have of science and to imagine a different world, in which health is protected differently with prevention, care of the environment and not excessive medicalization, which serves only the pharmaceutical industries. And we are also trying to protect animal welfare by activating research mechanisms that should promote the use of researchers. Another mystification I have heard these days is that researchers go abroad because of the animalists. It is a falsehood on the part of this terrifying Parliament. Researchers go abroad because nobody here wants to invest in science and research. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups]] A people who study, who discover and continue to know this Parliament does not need to do so. We need an ox people. Then there's something else I'd like to tell you. I have received a lot of proposals from researchers about the fact that animal research projects are blocked. These projects, however, are blocked not by the 5 Star Movement or the animalists, but by the Ministry and the Government. Although European legislation prescribes a training decree within two months of the legislation and sets the 40-day deadline for responding to the request for animal research projects, the Ministry does not actually respond because it does not want to take responsibility for studying them and saying yes or no to a particular project. At this time when there are regional elections he probably wants to beat the circle and one to the barrel, accuse the various animalist movements of being obscurantists and at the same time block all Italian research. The latter, therefore, is blocked because of the failure of the Ministry and researchers flee because our country is not made for young people, neither for researchers, nor for anyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] As far as the agenda for Senator Giovanardi's first signature is concerned, we shall vote no because it is ethically, scientifically, politically and technologically inadmissible. It's a nonsense. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Simeoni and Repetti]] We will abstain on motions 1-00258 and 1-00267. The first quotes Expo. What does Expo have to do with animal welfare and animal testing? Expo has nothing to do with procura at this point. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] Forget the excuse of animal testing with regard to Expo. We propose two motions and an agenda. One motion is on animal testing and with it, simply, the government is asked to fulfil the obligations that the European Union dictates to us. Europe is asking for this, and so, please, we do what it asks for from time to time. Motion 1-00397 supplements these European directives with the protection of the weak and the animals in circuses and various exhibitions. My agenda highlights the fact that the current political class exploits any kind of weakness and, therefore, exploits the elderly, children, immigrants and, unfortunately, even dogs in kennels to make money, with serious costs for the state and citizens. We will of course vote in favour of our motions and, please, do not talk any more about science in this Parliament, because you are giving us hives. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Simeoni and Repetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u47	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the debate that took place on the motions on this subject, which is certainly not secondary but crucial, of the relationship between man and animals was as always very heated. And it is not with the logic of opposing fundamentalism that we can seriously address the problem, which is first of all civilization. Personally, I am a convinced animalist and, in fact, I have signed the first version of the Amati motion, but in an explanation of vote I must express the position of an entire Group in which there are inevitably different sensibilities. In this sense, together with the passionate defense of animals by Senator Scilipoti, I greatly appreciated the balance and competence of the intervention of Senator Zuffada, who has realistically listed a series of problems from which it is objectively difficult to ignore such as - for example - that of income animals, a category that may not please but which constitutes, willing or unwilling, an indispensable element for a not irrelevant part of our economy. The question to be asked with force is that of animal welfare, and on this in Italy there have been improvements, but still insufficient. I would like to remind you, in this regard, of the document approved by the National Committee on Bioethics, that what we eat must not only be good and satisfy the palate, but must also comply with ethical requirements of fairness and transparency of the entire production chain, as well as with attention to the parameters of animal welfare. Thus, an ethic of bioculture has been established that surpasses a conception of the animal exclusively as a means of satisfying human interests and needs and in which it is recognized as a sentient worthy of protection. Moreover, the status of sentient beings has been conferred on animals by the European Union first with the protocol annexed to the Treaty of Amsterdam and then, more stringently, by the most recent Treaty of Lisbon, which requires the Community legislator and the Member States to take full account of animal welfare in the process of forming standards. Even in Italy, behind the pressure of an increasingly attentive public opinion to the issues of animal welfare, in recent years the Court of Cassation has changed its jurisprudence, arguing - for example - that, in order to speak of ill-treatment against animals, it is not necessary for them to be caused obvious physical injury, but it is sufficient that they are put in conditions of suffering, recognizing animals as living beings capable of perceiving with pain behaviors not inspired by sympathy, compassion and humanity. For this reason, too, the Government must verify the appropriateness of the new Article 131- bis of the Criminal Code, as requested by the Amati motion, concerning the exclusion of criminality for particular reason of the fact in cases of crimes against animals. In fact, it is necessary to avoid that non-perpetuality is effectively excluded when we are in the presence of a conduct of cruelty, as provided for in Legislative Decree no. 28 of 2015 and, if not, proceed with the appropriate regulatory changes. Community and Italian legislation have, therefore, evolved positively in recent decades and significant improvements have been achieved, starting with the abolition of cosmetic tests on animals and the introduction of the European ban on the marketing of cosmetic products tested on animals in the Union, which should also be extended to cleansing products, as well as the ban on the import and marketing of dog, cat and seal skins. This achievement, however, does not yet find adequate application. Suffice it to say that the protection of pet animals does not yet have specific Community legislation. On the contrary, in some EU countries stray animals continue to be killed indiscriminately and illegal trade in hundreds of thousands of puppies is fed, with very high mortality rates and equally serious health risks. Italy in this is fortunately much later, having already introduced a law since 1991 that prohibits killings as a contrast to straying and imposes the compulsory sterilization of stray dogs and cats. In addition, a very strict law on illegal trafficking of puppies has been in force since 2010. However, it would be up to the European Union to strengthen Europol's controls and to amend the regulation on the protection of animals during transport. In other areas, the European Commission's Food and Veterinary Office should be strengthened in order to ensure effective monitoring of the application of Community legislation, in order to achieve a system of compulsory registration and European traceability. Do we want to talk about animal captivity for fun? With all respect for the circuses, for the zoos and for those who work there, even on this subject a severe and urgent reflection is required. Another qualifying point: for farmed animals, there is a need for mandatory minimum standards which also apply to species today without specific protection rules and a law prohibiting the cloning of animals for food production, supporting the harmonisation of the internal market and extending at Community level the ban on the rearing of animals for the main purpose of obtaining furs, already adopted by some Member States. In short, it is necessary to arrive at more effective and uniform European legislation, especially in order to be able to verify its respect by each country and also to provide for infringement procedures when it becomes necessary. The motions under discussion today all contain indications that are acceptable and important, even if - for example - the ban on exporting animals to non-EU countries, where treatment standards equivalent to those used in the EU in animal welfare are not respected, will certainly take a short time. Similarly, the abolition of the hunting tout court appears to be a hope to date, although it is sacrosanct to expect that hunting and fishing will respect migration, the season of births and loves. The size of the caught and the hunted must also be considered in relation to the means and instruments of hunting and fishing, which must not be excessive, disproportionate or improper. Another point on which the debate was particularly heated concerns the possibility of allocating more resources to alternative testing than animal testing. We have the great opportunity of funding the Horizon research programme, which devotes a great deal of resources to alternative methods and in vitro methods. This is an opportunity that must certainly be taken, but we cannot ignore the alarm cry launched this morning on the pages of "the Republic" by Senator Cattaneo who, while excluding vivisection and suffering, warns against the risks of an excessive limitation of scientific experimentation on animals, which allowed to defeat diseases that killed millions of children and adults. All the motions, therefore, have at heart the issue of animal welfare to highlight the fact that it is no longer possible to continue to use land in the world to feed, in most cases, animals and, therefore, farms. Parliament has a duty to find a balance, not easy, between food, scientific needs and animal welfare. That is why the Forza Italia Group, on this very important issue, leaves freedom of vote. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u50	Martini (PD). Madam President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of the various motions and agendas that have been tabled, gathering the government's views and indications and hoping that the rewording options will be accepted. These interventions have proposed reformulations and suggested amendments that have enriched the texts and have also made them more balanced and representative. This seems to me to be useful to everyone, and also to the same motions, because they will be able to have a wider support. Our Group has today discussed these issues extensively in an assembly, giving them the necessary attention, with an effort of listening and understanding between different positions that I believe is decisive, without tones or mutual delegitimizations and above all without the suspicion or representation of the position of each one as if it were dictated by different interests. I don't think this is gonna help anywhere. Let's measure ourselves culturally with the different issues in the field. The delicacy of the theme requires it. We do not need to feed religious wars, because I think it would be, among many, the worst way to win the attention of politics. In the general sense of the motions presented - I am referring above all to those presented by our senators, because we have discussed them more - we appreciate the signal of openness and commitment contained in them, because they look at the possibility of making further progress on land where we have already set out. Motions take a point: a sensitivity grows and spreads in all sectors of the country. Community pronunciations are gradually becoming more punctual and incisive and invite countries to operate. And there are results also at national level, and sometimes I have the impression that they are not even all known, but there are decrees, laws, circulars and ministerial decrees that already move in this direction. Hence, the motions on our examination say that it is right to go ahead, continue and do well the things that are defined. And on this point we agree. On the contrary, I believe there is broad agreement on this point in this House too. I have to say that it seems to me to be also normal, because it is the proactive part of the debate, which we can consider pars construens, but it is important to reiterate this, partly because it is not a secondary issue and the debate over the last two days seems to me to have demonstrated this. Obviously, then, there are the edges, the most complex and divisive issues, those where, in addition to political sensitivity, we also need a technical and scientific skill and perhaps the ability to put things together. These issues must be handled carefully, seeking synthesis, of course within a broad debate that does not put into difficulty any position and the right interests against each other. I have the impression that, if we were to think above all in a logic that considers interests in the field right and tries to put them together, and not against each other, we would make very significant progress. This has been done on many points, even during the discussion, and, as the Government has proposed, some issues that would have been immature for some important decisions. This has also been done on research, the most sensitive issue we have discussed, with great attention being paid to the current debate, to all the concerns in the field and to all the calls not to restrict the development of research in every direction. I believe that we will have to return to these issues by finding the right opportunities. In the meantime, however, we are returning to the debate in the field of motions for our examination. There is no intervention that proposes to call into question the procedures for research and experimentation with animals which contribute to human health. There are no measures proposing restrictions or prohibitions on these issues. Rather, it is called for to stimulate and continue to support the testing of alternative methods, which work on research without animals replacing, reducing or decreasing animals. I must say that this is not new in our debate. Already in a law of European delegation - as President Chiti here can confirm - the issue was addressed, so much so that there is a legislative decree, No. 26 of 2014, which provides for all this. Sometimes I get the impression that it is not even known and, therefore, the problem is to implement the existing rules. The point on which we have had the greatest debate is that the bans on cosmetics cannot and should not, of course, extend to detergents. The motion from an answer, a positive response, also because the House has already acted in this direction and therefore we must, in some way, standardise our positions. I have to say that a very correct way has been chosen and I acknowledge the willingness that there has been to work in this way. The issue is not one-sidedly dealt with at national level, but rather an initiative is taken at Community level to give greater prominence and to be within the framework that is then understood by all of us on these issues. In conclusion, it seems to me that there is an opportunity to take a step forward. The debate will of course continue. Highly important issues have emerged: the relationship between politics and science, between the interests and legitimacy of politics and everything else. I believe that an appropriate way to continue this debate would be to find an opportunity, as soon as the timetable offers us, to carry out, as we have already done today, an important debate perhaps on some very important motion, on support for Italian research, in all senses, in all directions and in all its openings. This seems to me to be a sign of great breath and consistency with the debate that has taken place today. In this way we could find a higher synthesis that fills us all. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the vote I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. After the vote on the motions under Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the agendas will be put to the vote, also for the parties not excluded nor absorbed by previous votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u54	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u55	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 239. Senator Taverna, do you accept the rewording proposed by the government representative? TAVERNA (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 239 (text 2), tabled by Senator Taverna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 258 (text 4). Senator Amati, do you accept the rewording proposed by the government representative?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u56	Madam President, as far as the reformulation of the guarantor is concerned, I not only agree with you, but I thank Mr De Filippo very much. I believe that this is a purely parliamentary competence. I do not add anything to what my Parent Company has said very well in relation to the issue of testing cleaning products, which obviously have not been understood by others. I would point out that the motion has many signatures from members of different groups. The rewording of point 18 personally convinces me, but less convinces others. I, however, accept it. The replacement of item 22, as you intended, is actually absorbed by the G3 agenda, at the first signature of Senator De Petris. In conclusion, I accept all the proposed rewordings.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u57	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 258 (text 5), tabled by Senator Amati and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion 267. Senator Cirinna, do you accept the rewording proposed by the government representative? CIRINNA' (PD). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 267 (text 2), tabled by Senator Cirinna and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 397. Senator Fucksia, do you accept the rewording proposed by the government representative? FUCKSIA (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 397 (text 2), tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1 (text 3), presented by Senator Giovanardi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G2 agenda. Senator Fattori, do you accept the rewording proposed by the government representative? FACTORS (M5S). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2 (text 2), tabled by Senator Fattori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Waiting for the information of Minister Alfano, I suspend the session until 6.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 6.15 p.m. and resumed at 6.32 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u58	The next item is the report by the Government on the serious incidents in Milan on 1 May 2015. After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have ten minutes available. I call the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alfano. CASTALDI (M5S). Bravo! [[Ironic applause from Senator Castaldi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I immediately made sure that I was fully prepared to report on the events that took place in Milan on 1 May, coinciding with the opening day of Expo 2015. Let me first express my solidarity with the many citizens of Milan who have suffered the destruction or damage of their own property affected by blind and senseless violence. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC), FI-PdL XVII, Misto, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)),]] against which the reaction of the whole Ambrosian community arose immediately. As I myself mentioned immediately after last Friday's events [[Comments of Senator Castaldi]] , the behaviour of the police forces, their balance and their compound reaction are to be praised unconditionally. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] It was a great test of democratic maturity and civilization, which cannot be diminished or degraded by controversial instrumentals regarding an alleged condescending towards the most exascited elements. On the contrary, the line of conduct of the police forces in Milan is not unpublished nor, less than ever, the result of presumed as opaque and imaginative compromises. On the other hand, it is a line of absolute and consolidated transparency, which in the events of Milan has also met with a precise strategic and tactical choice. [[Senator Petrocelli's comments.]] It is strategic, because the guarantee of the maintenance of public order must look at all the interests at stake, including those of peaceful demonstrators, and protect, therefore, the free expression of thought, even that of dissent. Turning the square into a sort of arena where two parts are confronted, the opposite of the other, is a serious mistake. Police forces do not oppose anyone by definition. Their intervention is always a guarantee of fundamental freedoms, and can never be measured on a competitive truce in which muscle logic prevails. Milan was also a tactical choice. As has been explained, the objective of the suits was to force the police forces to pursue them so that they were left without defence and without garrison some gates of the city center. In short, it was a diversion, an urban guerrilla device from which we did not get caught up. I felt the duty to thank immediately the Forces of order and I reiterated it again today by going to Milan [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC), FI-PdL XVII and PD and Senator Buemi]] , not only for the usual self-denial and professionalism, but also for the lucidity of their behavior, not at all taken for granted in an impervious operating context. In reaffirming in this House my praise and unconditional appreciation to all those who have worked with the calm firmness of the rule of law, I also express the deepest solidarity and closeness to the agents and the military who have been involved in the clashes. In the hours immediately following the events in Milan, the theme of prevention was highlighted. I would like to be very explicit: the preventive action was carried out at a wide range and well in advance of the demonstration on 1 May. The concerns for the inaugural event of Expo found their precise reference also in the highly symbolic value that the jagged galaxy of the antagonist world ended with the assignment to the international exhibition in Milan. The activity of analysis and intelligence has been directed, therefore, towards this particular area, putting under observation the area of Italian antagonism and the different circuits of extremism that had mobilized in a capillary way in the phase of approach to the Milanese event. The most dangerous elements were immediately identified in the members of the anarcho-insurrectionalist component. It is known that this movement is not confined to Italy and that it also affects other European countries, being present and particularly active in France, Spain, Germany and Greece. An intensive information exchange has therefore been launched with the side-by-side foreign police bodies and the Interpol and Europol circuits, so as to gain a complete picture of the participation of foreign antagonist groups and their consistency. The connection with the police of other countries also saw the establishment of an ad hoc operating room at the Milan exhibition site, in which, in addition to our representatives of the international cooperation service of the Criminalpol, some 30 foreign liaison officers participate. It was an intense investigative effort, even at the internal level, which saw at work not only personnel of the Milan police station and the territorial police forces, but also experts of the other DIGOS appropriately involved under the direction of the central apparatuses of the operational prevention activities. All these measures did not fail to produce results. In the days immediately prior to the manifestation of May 1 - and precisely April 28 and 29 - various activities were carried out, also jointly, by the State Police and the Arm of the Carabinieri, operations that led to the search of houses and buildings in which had been reported the presence of representatives of the antagonist area and its logistic bases. In the control of the territory, the crime prevention departments specialised in this type of activity have also been employed to assist the territorial forces. It was thus possible to expand the operation of the police forces, strengthening their information and investigative profiles precisely in conjunction with the inauguration of Expo. This vast and intense activity of control of the territory has given significant results in order to reduce the offensive capacity of the violent wing. The result, in fact, was the discovery and immediate seizure of helmets, gas masks, disguises for misrepresentation and other instruments that would serve the packaging of incendiary bottles and the fulfilment of other acts of vandalism. The police, in addition to making two arrests, proceeded to denounce to the judicial authority 50 people, many of them foreign, and to notify to 13 French and two Spanish the notice of the prefect to leave the national territory. The Commissioner of Milan also ordered the issue of some sheets of road and the forceful repatriation of three German-speaking antagonists, validated by the judicial authority. With regard to the events which took place on 1 May, about a thousand black suits, which had infiltrated the MayDay-NoExpo event, organized by the United Basic Confederation, were the protagonists of the event. I would add that, for this event, the quaestor had laid down certain prescriptions relating to the itinerary of the procession, in order to protect the city area around the Duomo and La Scala, where the inaugural concert would take place in the evening. At the height of the Partisan Resistance square, some of the members of the black block started a dense launch of firecrackers and smoke bombs at the address of the Forces of Order and their means. The violent action has gradually intensified, giving rise to a real devastation of a fortunately limited part of the urban centre. The police departments were initially deployed to carry out containment activities, aimed at protecting - as I will explain later - some crucial areas of the historic center. At the same time, rates of the same departments have settled in the streets parallel to the procession, ready to intervene. When the first acts of vandalism began, it was decided to isolate the tail of the procession, composed of the basic unions, promoters of the initiative, and tighten in a circle, with a maneuver, the black suits, detaching them also from the head of the manifestation. However, this action did not go unnoticed by the numerous lookouts available to the devastators, who, thanks to a sign of understanding, quickly folded towards the head of the procession, not before they gave rise to new and more violent attacks and suddenly freed themselves of the clothing and instruments that could have made them recognize. The sign of understanding, common to all, seems to have been the ignition of a smoker of a different color from the others. The results of the violence committed, concentrated over about twenty-thirty minutes, led to the damage of 27 cars and the fire of 17 others, to the damage of 20 businesses and 10 banking agencies. As I anticipated, there are also 13 involved in the clashes between police forces: 6 members of the State Police and 7 military members of the Carabinieri Army. I can add, not without relief, that these are minor bruises and injuries. Although it is certainly not a small budget, it cannot be accepted that the intelligent and wise action of the police forces has achieved more than one objective. Meanwhile, it has prevented - as I said - the achievement of the goal, set by the antagonists, to extend the area of devastation to the entire Milanese center, hitting the most symbolic objectives: the Stock Exchange, the Chamber of Commerce, the Palazzo delle Stelline, where the representation of the European Union has its seat, and, last, Piazza della Scala and the Duomo. In addition, the peaceful part of the procession, certainly prevalent, was managed to keep separate, when it was considered that about 20,000 people joined it, from the violent and facinorous one. It is a fact that the head of the procession was able to continue and finish the journey without encountering obstacles or incuring accidents. It is also a fact that the tailbone has been kept free from contact with the black suits, through an appropriate deviation of the itinerary, and then dissolved at the first accidents. This careful prevention activity, based on the principle of the containment of damage, which is a golden rule in the management of the square, has produced results also in terms of contrast. Despite the difficulties faced by the vehement guerrilla action, documented by the eloquent images proposed by television stations and the web, the police forces have detained 6 people, including 5 arrested for various crimes, including that of resistance to the public official, aggravated by the use of improper weapons, the launch of objects and the number of participants. Yesterday's news is the validation of the arrests operated, with application of the measure of detention in prison. The identification of those responsible continued incessantly also in the following days, especially with the arrest and denunciation of 14 young Greeks to the judicial authority on 2 May and the arrest in Genoa, the next day, of five other French citizens. The biological sampling was carried out to carry out the DNA test, in order to compare the findings with those left by the demonstrators on the abandoned objects and found in the places affected by the clashes. The investigative developments that may arise from the arrest in Genoa of the five transalpine citizens are certainly important. The first findings seem, in fact, to confirm their involvement in the events of Milan and it also seems to emerge, at least at the expense of one of them, a connection with the violent fringes of the No TAV. I look forward with confidence to further positive investigative developments, thanks to the use of the copious visual documentation that can lead, with patient reconstruction of the images, to the identification of other responsible for the serious accidents. Finally, I would like to mention the human resources that have been deployed by the police during the days that, from 29 April to 2 May, marked the start of Expo. In addition to the system, which consists of 2,558 reinforcement units, additional public order services were allocated to a total of 4,600 units. The climax was reached precisely on May 1st, which saw another 2,000 police operators operate: 900 of the State Police and as many soldiers of the Carabinieri Army, to which 200 belonging to the Finance Guard have been added. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Expo is a test of great severity and commitment. It is a showcase for the country and its success - indeed, what I hope will be an undisputed success - are linked to the image and prestige of Italy. I see an extraordinary cohesion around this objective. They are a symptom, even touching, of the momentum and fervor with which the Milanese wanted to go down the street to erase the signs of the outrage immediately from their city. [[Applause from the groupsAP (NCD-UDC), PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)]] It is natural that we will keep our attention to all forms of threat, monitoring any signal, even the faintest one, that can give us the clue of possible dangers or risks. However, the fact remains that too many times demonstrations of protest are crossed by destructive ferments that, in addition to diverting dissent towards violent outcomes, sow feelings of distrust and deep concern. The time has come for decisive measures to be taken in full respect of constitutional freedoms, in a wise balance of fundamental rights with the right to security. It is precisely in this direction that the provisions that will be included in the law on the safety of cities, which the Government is about to adopt, are placed in place. An effective measure may also be to extend the so-called deferred arrest, an institute that is now operating only with regard to the troublesomes that we take away from the stadiums and sporting events. CASTALDI (M5S). And politicians! ALFANO Angelino, Minister of the Interior. Other measures, in the sign of prevention, will protect the urban areas of major cities from the proliferation of demonstrations and marches that all too often become the occasion of riots, clashes and devastation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am beginning to conclude. The facts of Milan re-present the great challenge that our time poses to every advanced democracy and, even more so, to those democracies and to those countries that host world events: the challenge between freedom of manifestation of thought and security. The Government will face this challenge by not ensuring that these two rights (the one at the manifestation of thought and the one at security) become conflicting, dialectical and antagonistic; it will do so to assure all Italian citizens the freedom to go to the square and freedom to all those who have not come to the square to live safely in their own city. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC), PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u60	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Government. Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u61	Mr President, in these hours, in those post-exhibitions, we are discussing the responsibilities of the violence that has taken place. We need clear words on this. It is the responsibility of the violent, of those who, once again, pollute with offensive and destructive acts and with brutal and aggressive actions even legitimate protest initiatives that must have peaceful and democratically guaranteed conduct. On other occasions we have spoken differently about your Ministry, Minister, and we have criticized your work. This is not the theme today. No responsibility can be attributed to the City of Milan and its mayor, who, on the other hand, were deeply affected. The violence has mortified the industrious Milanese community and has damaged citizens, workers and businesses in Milan. It is on the perpetrators of these unacceptable violence, which we strongly condemn, that responsibility falls entirely. We want to express understanding, solidarity and respectful consideration to the police, who have worked with professionalism and prompt and solid attention, containing violent actions and reducing, through rational interventions, higher risks to the safety of people. Having said all this, it remains in the background a question that is unresolved: it concerns widespread discomfort, which has roots in the intolerable injustice and marginalization. We must respond to this with policies other than repressive policies, with appropriate social and economic policies. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senator Gentile]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u62	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u63	Mr Minister, let us say this: on 1 May we did not make a good international appearance. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Also because if the day after the world press (from the "Finncial Times" to "The Guardian", from "Le Monde" to "Der Spiegel", from "Pais" to "BBC," and these are only those that we have seen) generally opened with titles like "The opening of the Expo," which should get Italy out of the crisis, ruined by the clashes," it means that on a world level nobody looked at your beautiful faces as you inaugurated the Expo, but everyone went to look at the faces of those who were in the streets of Milan to create a bit of confusion. I mean, we didn't look good at international level. We made the same bad figure that we made in Rome during the demonstrations of the antagonistic groups for the struggle for the house in October 2013, the same bad figure made on the occasion of the match with the Feyenoord in February 2015, the same bad figure made with the workers of the Acciaierie of Terni, when she had not even managed to explain the reasons, the same bad figure made at the Olympic stadium on May 3, 2014 with the negotiations between the State and "Genny 'a carriona," where many of the Government were in the gallery laughing and joking. Let's face it, Minister: you and your boss are not making a good impression on public order management. On April 30 - you also remembered - you found the weapons and you publicly declared that everything would go well. On May 1st, however, there were the inconveniences in Milan that had been planned: 17 cars fired, 10 cars damaged, 13 banks destroyed, 12 stores devastated. You applauded the Milanese before, but the Milanese didn't applaud you, the Milanese were angry with you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Eleven officers have been injured, people who work and are there to do their duty despite your inadequacy, Minister. And he came here to tell us that you were able to arrest five people! Five people were able to arrest, given all the mess that was made that day. You think that in Frankfurt the German police, in a similar situation, arrested 350 of them, Minister, not five. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But we, Minister, are good at tweets: The public order tactics adopted in Milan avoided the worst and the inaugural day of Expo was not stained by blood. Angelino Alfano. Wasn't it stained by blood? Tell that to the 11 law enforcement officers that they've been injured. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Taverna]] Are none of you gentlemen, Minister, your employees, our employees, the employees of Italian citizens? The blood of the men of the Forces of Order is as valuable as, if not more, that of the demonstrators, because the Forces of Order were there to work, unlike you and contraryly and by the fancazzisti who were in the square that day. "Excellent work Forces of order (...) They have avoided the worst. Now let's defend the Scala. Did we avoid the worst? Go tell all those merchants and all those Milanese people that right now, thinking about you, they're telling you more than for Bertoldo. It is true that you defended La Scala, but it is also true that you did not defend the rest of Milan, Minister. Renzi as always is the best, Minister: he defined them in a tweet "four hooligans sons of Dad." Four punks sons of Dad and it took 2,558, plus 4,000, plus 2,000 men of the Forces of Order, plus the mess that happened in Milan. As always, Mr. Renzi stands out from others: it is a phenomenon in communication. The Milan Democratic Party, since they were four punks, tweets: "No touches Milan". While you tweet, Maroni has provided 1.5 million euros for the people of Milan. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] While you applauded, the Lombardy Region made the money available for the Milanese. So, Minister, all we can do at this point is present a motion of no confidence in you. We ask colleagues from all parties and from all parliamentary groups to sign it and we will sign any motion of distrust that the other parliamentary groups make. Minister, you don't deserve that place. Get out of here before our motion of no confidence is presented. (The Senators of the League display a banner written: "ALFANO DIMETTITI! M.G.P. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u64	I would ask Parliament's assistants to speak. Take that banner off. (Parliamentary assistants remove the banner.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u65	Mr Minister, I would like to express my personal solidarity with these initiatives by my colleagues in the League, who have now reached an unacceptable level of folklore. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]] I would like to express my appreciation and appreciation of the Group for the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE regarding the action carried out by the Forces of Order and solidarity in particular with the agents who were injured in the demonstration on 1 May. I express a great regret at the damage caused, which occurred in the demonstration, against goods, citizens and businesses that must be compensated by public compensation because where the State, even for objective reasons, is not able to guarantee the safety of all (and, in particular, of persons and goods) it is right that the State itself, or its general contribution, takes charge of it. Minister, we need a few more precautions than protecting our historical, cultural and artistic heritage. In the management of the permits I believe that we must introduce some element of concern in more and, therefore, some element of caution further regarding the provision of areas that have their value and that must be defended not only to satisfy the contemporary needs, but also because we have the obligation to preserve towards the future these goods that are a strong positive characteristic of our country. Of course, this must happen without a limitation of the right to the free manifestation of dissent, but this dissent must express itself within precise rules and in strict compliance with the law. That is right, Minister: we extend the measures in force in football events to all other public events. In particular, we make immediate use of the arrest in delayed flagency, the arrest that must take place within forty-eight hours, knowing however that we must have certain instruments. From this point of view I expect some reassurance on his part about the use of modern and advanced technologies in the video monitoring of the events to document in a timely and timely way camouflage, masking and possession of improper weapons, also to capture the moment of dressing and undressing. Today it is possible to identify almost everyone. We hope that in the next few days, Minister, with the investigation activity of the judicial authority and the collaboration of the police of the Italian and international investigation orders, we can further increase the list that today seems to me to be of about 14 elements and that, to be honest, compared to a demonstration that has seen hundreds of people who have abandoned themselves to such serious behaviors, is not enough. From this point of view we call for a rapid conclusion of the investigations. I conclude by renewing solidarity with the Forces of Order which, in this case, have shown great professionalism and have been able to give, under the leadership of the political-administrative authority, the strength with respect to the results that should be obtained. Certainly in the Italian squares we must not have tragedies, but a rigorous action of containment and of contrast to illegal behavior. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u66	Senator Repetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u67	Mr President, I would like to address the Minister because I believe that this House today, instead of presenting motions of mistrust, must thank her. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]] You should thank her for the difficult work she does every day, leaving aside those political exploitations now - let me tell you - become unbearable for the faction and exaggeration that, often, grieve the absurdity and even the ridicule. If we really want to marginalize and defeat those criminals (and I believe that at least this House agrees), who have no intention of manifesting, but just want to devastate everything and do harm to everyone, it is necessary, for intellectual honesty, to begin by recognizing, Minister, the merits that are due to you when they are due to you. And I think that you and all the Order Forces on Friday, given the conditions and circumstances, have handled a very delicate situation, which could become much more dangerous, and that you have done so in the best possible way. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u68	Senator Schifani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u69	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of this House, I think it is appropriate, albeit briefly, to contextualize the events of days ago in the context of those events which have been in recent years the major demonstrations in the streets that have upset European and international public opinion. If we do not contextualize this event with respect to others, we make a political historical mistake. Let's start from the beginning, from the birth of the black blocks in Seattle, during a big protest demonstration during which the famous black blocks, who saw themselves for the first time, hooded, stormed shops, headquarters of multinationals and banks: 600 people arrested in the course of a few days, estimated damage of 20 million. Let's go to 2001 and to the famous G8 of Genoa, during which the management of security was entrusted to Minister Scajola, in a coalition government of which the League was an important and strategic part, today asking for the resignation of our Minister. We all know the events of Genoa, which had a terrible budget: one dead, 560 wounded, 301 arrested, 25 million damage to things. We go to 2010, during the Berlusconi Government and with Interior Minister Roberto Maroni. On that occasion, during the vote of confidence, almost the assault of the Senate took place. The budget among the protesters was terrible: 40 injured rescued from ambulances on the spot, 118 hospitalized, 57 members of the Forces of Order wounded and a damage of 20 million euros. The interior minister of the time was named Roberto Maroni and no political force on that occasion asked for the resignation of the interior minister. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD and the Senators Buemi and Di Biagio]] We come to what I call the looting of Rome, that is, the demonstration of 15 October 2011 of the so-called indignados, who plundered our capital, setting fire to an armored Carabinieri and causing damage to Rome for an amount of 2.6 million euros. But let us also go abroad and to the recent episodes of Frankfurt, which have affected international public opinion. The assault on the ECB's new headquarters led to 350 stops, 16 arrests, seven burnt-out steering wheels and 90 injured agents: all in all, 200 injured. What has changed in recent years in the management of public order in our country, Mr President? Opportunely, after the events of Genoa, after the disastrous and painful episode of the death of Giuliani and also of our poor police officer Raciti, who died following the contrasts in the Sicilian derby, where he was assaulted by troublesome and was simply smashed his liver with an iron squeeze, after that method of direct contrast from man to man he changed attitude. We have moved on to the logic of the management of public order with the containment of risk, in order to avoid losing the main value of contrast, security and serenity of public opinion: human life even of those who protested, even of those who were in the streets wrong and committing mistakes. The technique has changed and in this way we have not had any more deaths, colleagues. I do not say that this must console us, but that it was a winning technique that leads us to be able to say that days ago the irreparable did not happen. Besides, we don't say that by sprinkled with salt, we don't. A strategy was actually used; that day live all the media acknowledged our law enforcement forces and our minister that they had intelligently studied a strategy to avoid the misdirection that the black blocs wanted to adopt by assaulting our policemen, who did not get fooled and were not fooled in following them in the contrast. He paid a price. It is good, if this price must be the result of a reflection that we have done. We have accepted with great interest Mr Alfano's proposals for new legislation which strengthens the powers of prevention. It is easy, ladies and gentlemen of the North League, to say that we had to do this or that. There is a need for a regulatory system; access to delayed arrest is needed; the prefect should be given the opportunity to make discretionary assessments of whether or not to authorise demonstrations or parades; more decision-making must be given to those operating on the territory. Mr Alfano's proposals fully agree with us and we will be at his side in approving them, with courage; that courage which Minister Alfano himself showed when, as Minister of Justice, he approved the most stringent rules in the fight against organised crime on the seizure of property and on the stabilisation of the regime referred to in Article 41- bis of the penitentiary order. He is not a minister who backs out; he is a minister who has put our face in the fight against organised crime and who is taking on this responsibility today in the legislative change in the field of prevention and public order. Colleagues, the security of citizens is a must-have heritage of a country. To ensure it requires firmness, rules, courage in challenges and sometimes difficult choices, but also the maturity and awareness of every political force not to slip into the easy and instrumental demagogy in search of temporary consensus, perhaps lucrative on the fears of the citizen. A strong state rests on the rules of consensus on ideas and proposals (ideas and proposals like yours, Minister) and not on the emotions of the protest. The emotions deceive and are volatile; the proposals are translated into deeds, those that you have come to propose to us and to which we will give our full support. Mr President, allow me a digression. My eyes fall on bill No 1307, signed by Senators Scibona, Battista, Puglia, Fucksia and other senators, on the identification of police officers in public order, bearing: Provisions on the identification of members of the Order Forces carrying out public order activities I would subscribe to it, but add the following expression: To give credit and honor to their daily sacrifice in the interests of the citizens. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC), PD and AUT (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u70	Senator Marton is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u71	Mr President, I refer to Senator Repetti's words. I think you should actually thank her, Minister. Thank you for allowing the Bernini fountain to be devastated in Rome by Feyenoord fans [[Applause from the M5S Group]] or that Campo de' Fiori was invaded and half destroyed. We also thank you for the cars, the banks and everything that happened in Milan. We also thank you for that. I believe that the people who have suffered this damage are especially grateful to her and I wonder who will repay them thanks to her strategic and tactical work that she has decided to explain to us. Then you should explain this strategic and tactical work to me, Minister. Let me get this straight: to the workers of Terni's steel works, we let the black blocks go. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let me understand: is the strategy strong with the weak and weak with the strong, Minister? Is that the strategy you impose? Intelligence informed you of everything that was going on and everything that could happen, and what do you think you're doing? You think you're gonna let the black blocs go and quietly destroy Milan, don't you, Minister? Let me also understand why your government is not there with you, dear Minister. You're a pin of the Renzi government, the one that guarantees all the nefariousness you're doing. He guarantees it with his few senators and the government abandons it in the moment of need, doesn't he, Minister? Don't you have the courage to raise your head, Minister? Who wrote that full speech to him - forgive me - of stupidities? She wasn't in Milan and she doesn't know the police didn't isolate the black blocs. They isolated themselves from the black blocks, making a cord back and forth with sticks. You know, Minister, were you there or were you on vacation at that time? [[Comments from the PD Group]] Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). They want us! MARTON (M5S). Yes, Senator Bianconi, we do, absolutely. Let me understand one last thing, Minister, are you now going to issue stricter rules to block peaceful marches as well, or will you use some bill or some decree to gang the No Tav, by any chance? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Minister, you have already shown inadequacy and incompetence in the Shalabayeva case. He allowed a child and a mother to be kidnapped in Italy. It was a kidnapping, in fact, and you allowed it. I believe, Minister, that you need to step back and I believe that, with a motorbike of pride, you could resign yourself but you will not. I do not know what personal interest or party interest you are guaranteeing, but I can imagine that, dear Minister. Well, I inform you that we have already filed the fourth motion of no confidence in you, dear Minister. If you don't feel inadequate, we think so. Resign immediately, before discussing this motion of no confidence. Go home! [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u72	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u73	Mr President, Mr Alfano, perhaps we will all be coaches, as you said this morning. We have to be happy if we saved the Scala, you wrote it on Twitter the other night, and we would also miss it being burned to the ground. Blood calls blood, classic quote. Before that, Mr Schifani listed a whole series of disastrous events. I would add others: it went better than Pearl Harbor, better than during the bombing of Dresden and the bombing of Guernica, where things went much worse definitely. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Comments of Senators Airola and Marton]] So the list of worst events is exterminated. But you see, Minister, (I am convinced that you can listen to us even if you do anything else, in case you tweet that we have defended not only the Scala but also the Stress Castle that has been there for a few centuries, fortunately) I believe that the work of constant delegitimization of the Forces of Order that led to surrender directives is wrong. You did well this morning to say "good, good, good" to the members of the Forces of Order. However, I suggest you go to Milan again (but you can also go to Rome, there is no need to go to Milan) and to meet with the members of the police departments and the mobile departments of the Carabinieri and to make them talk. Let him say what they think. Do it behind closed doors: there is no need for a talk show or for Parliament. Gather his anger and exasperation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Listen to them: if he did it well but I believe, from the news that I have (because I do it every now and then this exercise of private listening of this outlet), that he would know what happens. We, for example, feel that the delegitimization campaigns that have been carried out are wrong. We believe that the introduction of codes of identification which we honour to have blocked in this part of Parliament and which we contest is wrong. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] If anything, we'd like the numbers for the black blocks. Look, Minister, it's not true that they left uniforms because the state won and gave up. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] They took off their clothes to escape undisturbed, because they had unfortunately won. It wasn't a sign of surrender. We may be coaches, but you should think a little bit more about these things. I also wonder why, and other Members have said so, there have been five arrests in Milan. I can also understand that it was a containment technique (although it should be explained to those who had ruined buildings, destroyed shops and burned machines). Fabio Fazio also said that, after all, it was a circumscribed fact (these politically correct characters that must always minimize). I'm not talking about rappers or Saviano gurus, always ready to justify anything. We believe that those people, who had been identified earlier, could have been treated differently. Instead, President Grasso, there was a magistrate whose name I do not know, but to whom, as soon as I identify him, I will send as a gift the film "The bold blow of the usual unknown." In fact, I read in the papers that some of these German guys stopped said they had gone to see a basketball game in Bologna. In the famous film "The daring blow of the usual unknowns," Gassman - we mention high exponents of our theatrical and film culture - going to make a robbery in Milan adduces as an alibi to have gone to see a game of Rome in San Siro; and all then, taken by the police as suspects, tell this story. After decades of that movie, there are still magistrates who make themselves dull as in the films of the Italian comedy of the fifties. This is very unpleasant. Minister Alfano - I give him credit - asked about the evening Corriere (Corriere della sera) prudently did not answer. They asked him what he thought of this indecision, having spent hours and having been released many stopped, that perhaps they had not gone to see basketball in Bologna, or football in Milan, but had gone to set the cars on fire in Milan. The Minister, called to a judgment, in compliance with the separation of functions said nothing. But we say that those assessments of some magistrates were also very wrong. Welcome to arrest in delayed flagency, as is the case with sport. We will support this measure, just as we believe that identification codes and other measures should not be introduced. We must also speak in favour of staff, Minister: we must bring the turn-over back to 100%. Too many times in the square are men worn out by too many years of service, because the replacements are not adequate; therefore there is a whole work of reorganization that must be carried out. Let's also think about the torture law. We are all against torture. But - be careful - there are rules, for example those on psychological torture, which could lead to the paralysis of public order. Then we cannot complain - and I conclude, Mr President - about what happened in Rome. Many cited the incidents of Dutch fans. That morning we saw on social networks the protest of those who said that the police were standing on the staircase of the Spanish square; However, if he had stopped the drunken Dutch at 11 a.m. in an energetic manner, they would have said the police were bad. We know that it is difficult to manage public order, but the way is not to surrender to violence. I conclude by expressing solidarity with all those exasperated citizens of Milan, victims of this violence and protagonists of initiatives of different sources and moments of great civic commitment. But we are above all with the law enforcement forces delegitimized and attacked by too many; they are the first line, to be respected and listened to. Listen to them a little more, Minister, and you will learn, like us, many things. [[Applause from the Fi-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u74	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u75	Mr President, I think that the inauguration of Expo, the unacceptable devastation suffered by a part of Milan, but also the extraordinary response that already Saturday, cleaning the city from the writings, and then Sunday was given by thousands of Milanese, who have retraced the path of the black blocks to clean up the city, are the facts that marked the weekend just spent. Friday morning was inaugurated Expo: a bet won, no one talked about. (Senator Airola's Laughter). The feared delays have not been and 650,000 citizens have already visited it in the first three days. I think it is right, here too, to thank the workers who, with their commitment, have made it possible to overcome this challenge and this bet. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senators Buemi and Di Biagio.]] With Expo, our entire country will be at the center of the attention of the world: what will happen there will be in the spotlight. For this reason, in addition to the advantages that we will have, such an event - as has always happened in recent years - will constitute an irresistible stage for criminals who, hidden by suits and black masks, take advantage to devastate the cities that host those events, using military techniques and then disappearing. It has happened in the United States, Australia, Brazil and recently in Frankfurt, demonstrating that we are faced with a capacity for aggression by these thugs, which is difficult to fight and which, so far, no one has been able to prevent. It is right, as the Minister has done, to understand, in the light of what has happened, what further measures to put in place to prevent these things from happening again. It may be useful to extend the delayed arrest even for those who are recognized by the footage, after the events, as criminals. I think it's also right to raise the penalties for those who manifest with their faces covered and give more powers to the prefects to decide the paths of the most problematic processions. They are useful measures, which have shown effectiveness in other fields, but I believe that, under the conditions given, no one in good faith may not consider effective the choices made by the Forces of Order, which have managed to limit the damage by isolating the violent from the ongoing procession and By blocking them. Of course, this has meant that cars and shops in that section have been devastated, but it has also limited the action of black blocks, prevented the involvement of other protesters, prevented them to achieve the objectives that had been proposed and, above all, avoided more serious damage to people. Thanks to the professionalism of the Forces of Order, to which we wish to express our gratitude, more serious consequences have been avoided. Likewise, our gratitude goes to the firemen, who intervened immediately, courageously exposing themselves to the possible violence to put out the fires set by these criminals. Of course, the commitment of the State must also be to compensate people who have suffered damage to property, it is necessary to do so. I want to remind Senator Gasparri that while he was busy tweeting, all the directors and parliamentarians of Milan, immediately Friday night, were in the square and talking and helping the citizens who had suffered damage. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC). Comments from the FI-PdL XVII Group]] We hope that the intelligence work and the observation of the footage will lead to discovering, denouncing and punishing other black blocs, with penalties adapted to the unheard-of gravity and gratuitousness of their acts also making them pay the compensation due. But we also need politics not to turn every story like this into an opportunity for propaganda and campaigning. I do not answer Senator Gasparri; just say that it was the Government of the G8, that Government that witnessed for three days the devastation of Genoa; that it was responsible for events such as Diaz and Bolzano, and that now comes here to give us lessons on how to govern a square. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC) and Senator Buemi.]] Instead, I would like to mention the then Interior Minister Roberto Maroni. After the center of Rome was devastated by the antagonists, he appealed to all political forces to unite against violence. I believe that he was right, and I believe that, apart from differences, it is wrong and dangerous that those who recognize themselves in democratic rules and civil coexistence make shop interests prevail rather than facing violent people together. Unfortunately, there are not so many statements that have been heard in these hours and also in this House. Allow me, Mr President, to conclude by saying the following. There are statements by people who, in order to accuse the Government, the President-in-Office of the Council rather than the Minister of the Interior, have invented everything and lose sight, as my colleague Mr Uras said, that the objective remains to condemn the criminals, and not those who fight them. The civic and civil demonstration on Sunday afternoon in Milan, the one you weren't there, colleague Centinario, but there was the city [[Comments of Senator Centinario]] indicates the way: violence must be reacted together and united. This must also be our task, of the institutions. I said civic and civil, not party. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Ours are civic and civil. MIRABELLI (PD). It must be to gather the message that came from that procession, the willingness of the citizens to defend together the common heritage; a high idea of civil coexistence in which there is no room for those who dress in black, covers the face and vents their frustration on others. I believe that, beyond the differences that exist in this House, that it is right for them to express themselves, we have the responsibility to accept that message, aware that violence must be fought together, without whether or not. This is also the best way to thank the Forces of Order for the extraordinary work they have done and continue to do, and to thank the citizens of Milan for the lesson they have given us, which they have given to politics with their commitment and their civil and democratic reaction. [[Applause from the PD Group and the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u76	In thanking Minister Alfano, I declare closed the discussion on the information of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Italian delegation to the INCE Parliamentary Assembly is convened on Thursday 7 May, at 8 a.m., at the Senate of the Republic, for the third ballot for the election of the President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u78	At 4 p.m. on Thursday, the Minister for Economic Development, Dr. Guidi, will answer questions on the following topics: interventions for business crises and support for businesses; energy initiatives, with particular regard to renewable sources and mining activities.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u81	(at 19.27) PHASE (PD). Mr President, the events of Milan at the Expo call for a profound reflection. It is right, however, to record also episodes that are far less striking, but still disturbing, that take place daily in our territories and that unfortunately have modest emphasis - or do not have at all - on the national chronicles. I would point out that in Gorizia it seems that the prosecutor has opened a file to investigate a vile act of outrage against the Lapidary, which has fixed the names of 655 Italian citizens, victims of deportations and the massacre of the foibe. On the wall it is written "fasci in foiba". A few days ago, on the wall that circumscribes the Nazarene, home of the Archdiocese that free hosts illegal immigrants, also in Gorizia, has appeared the inscription "clandestini a morte" and to follow a swastika. Both episodes, in a civil and quiet city, are disturbing. The wall of the Lapidary represents and recalls our history, dramatic for many lives and families. Today, we need to make strong reflections and ask ourselves whether more than one institution has failed when, after seventy years, everyone should have become aware of the horror of this part of our history. I remember many direct testimonies, the pain of a missing principal friend, Lucilla, whose father, a veterinarian in Aidussina, was brutally killed only for having done his professional duty correctly, blocking a game of infected meat. Seventy years have passed and so much has changed. To all the parts that in war and at the end of war suffered and immediately the trail of miserable revenge, goes our emotional memory and our deep respect. To school and family, but also to politics, the task of educating every day the values of peaceful coexistence and respectful of all ideas, of all opinions, and the value of the gesture, the weight of the word and not only in the ritual days of the commemorations. Let us use these words in a worthy manner, colleagues. Faced with the globalization of violence, which every day immerses our chronicles, almost legitimized by embarrassed tones and increasingly shouted and vulgarized expressions, the positive ideals and gestures seem to have little room to assert themselves and express themselves. That is why I would like to send a message to the good school of the territory and of the country: that it promptly responds with a deep reflection to the provocations of those who gross the walls, threatens, intimidates and generates insecurity, of those who gross the places loaded with sacredness that recall victims of persecution or contests with barbaric and uncivilized ways, so that it never happens again that someone declares, almost with candor, to love the taffles and chaos and that, if he had a crack, to apologize, with just as whiteness. On this the good school will have to say - but above all do - something, curing cultural formation and critical conscience. Pars Construens is a priority, but above all a great urgency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u84	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr Calderoli, today I would like to bring the case of Smith International Italia SpA, Saline di Volterra, in my Tuscany, in the Upper Val di Cecina, to your attention and to that of the senators. That is why I put a question. I met the workers on 1 May: it is 193 - and among them there are also couples, therefore husband and wife - for whom the spectre of dismissal is expected shortly if we do not call for a solution between the parties that protect the lives of so many families. The plant produces triconic stonemasons for drilling the soil, used for hydrocarbons, extraction of natural gas and geothermal energy. It is the only company that produces such high quality products throughout Europe. The company is located in the heart of my wonderful Tuscany, in the middle of valleys where the hills are lost at a glance; therefore, a local reality with a predisposition to tourism and agriculture, a territory not ready to receive 200 working units shortly, also because over the years has not been made an adequate occupational enhancement plan. It is a territory without infrastructure in which the Region, through its Governor Rossi and the PD, weakens even the hospital garrison giving the final bat. Obviously everyone in the area is mobilizing a bit, starting from the union representatives, citizenship all and the mayors of the territory. I especially thank the mayor of Volterra, Marco Buselli, who is struggling with all the means at his disposal to save his people. But the answers, the concrete ones, Mr President, must come out of the classrooms where the rules are decided, that is to say here. The workers call for the immediate withdrawal of the letters of dismissal and the opening of tables of extremely urgent negotiations. I mentioned earlier, in the Commission, I work in the presence of the Government, the seriousness of this employment situation, and undersecretary Bobba accepted the urgency, giving the willingness to observe the negotiations and the case of Smith International in the official offices. Today in Pisa the first table of work has opened in which the managing director, Giuseppe Muzzi, has received the will of the workers who ask for company conversion, use of social shock absorbers (can use them again for seven months), but above all the withdrawal of the will of closure in order to bring to America the production. Mr President, I would like to close with a promise I made: to bring back the voice of a 15-year-old boy I met on 1 May (it seems to me that his name was Giacomo, I hope I am not mistaken). This kid was looking for me and he said, See, this is my mom and she works in there, where my dad works there too. I am fifteen years old, I would like to study and I would like to work, but above all I would not want to leave my land. The promise I made to James and all those workers is to bring their voice to all institutional fora, so that something concrete can be done for them and a solution can be found as soon as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u87	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, do you think it is right to use state flights to campaign? Some say so. Think, even two state planes and even a helicopter. Who did it? The President-in-Office of the Council... [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That President-in-Office of the Council has done it all the time saying that there is no money for school, for this and this; but the money to go campaigning at the expense of the ATM citizen has found it. Of course, the citizen always pays! What did he come up with? He invented that within the three meetings he included institutional visits, in order to justify, according to him, the fact that he went to campaign. And no! He still doesn't justify it. He's always campaigned! But when are you PDs -- who aren't even there right now -- gonna stop with this system? When are you going to say enough about this? Why don't you go to the citizen and tell him? A state flight costs a lot, and on these planes there was also your delegation of MPs (maybe even some of you, now I don't have the names in hand). This has happened and is a serious fact. We are really fed up that the citizen is being used in this way, only to be mocked with slogans and robbed continuously by your policies. If you really want something to change, you have to change from this: you have to rebel against these little acts of abuse, these acts of Marquis of the Cricket: I am me and you are nothing (I have not said the swearing, but so much by now it has been customsed). Do you then want to make a commitment to do so, or do you want to continue like this? Last time it was a state plane; now it's two. Next time? They're gonna be three? Four? Five? Will this become normal too? You PD people are making these things normal too; you are making theft of citizens normal, and that is unacceptable. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u90	RUTA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to announce that an urgent question has been tabled, namely 3-201902, which I tabled this afternoon. The matter is simple. I do not explain the question, but I would like to point out that on 29 July last the Minister of Health sent the final draft of the decree on the regulation on the following to the State-Regions Conference: Definition of quality, structural, technological and quantitative standards for hospital care in accordance with Article 3 of the Health Pact 2014-2016. Annex 1 to the draft Regulation states, in point 2.4, that hospital facilities of level II, with a catchment area of between 600,000 and 1,200,000 inhabitants, are facilities with a level II DEA. In regions with a population of less than 600,000 inhabitants, with a 6% deviation, the activation or confirmation of the second level hospital garrisons is subject to the conclusion of an inter-regional integrated programming agreement with neighbouring regions... The Molise Region is among the regions with a population of less than 600,000 inhabitants and with a single DEA hospital garrison of second level. It is the Cardarelli Hospital in Campobasso, which would be downgraded to the first level DEA, based on the strict application of the new parameters defined in the regulation, which however provides exceptions for the Valle d'Aosta, which has a population of 130,000 inhabitants as a special-status region, and for the Basilicata, according to the expected deviation of 6 percent. The Molise has about 330,000 inhabitants and the entire central area of that Region, corresponding to the districts of Campobasso, Agnone, Bojano and Riccia, is more than ninety minutes away from any reference center of second level extra-regional, necessary reference in case of transfer for so-called dependent diseases (think of heart attacks), referring to disciplines envisaged only in a second level DEA. Under Article 32 of the Constitution, the State must ensure the protection of health in a uniform manner in all regions and for all citizens, wherever they are born and wherever they are resident. Therefore, we would like to understand, just as a Molise population, if the Government wants to ensure, by modifying the regulation that is being published (but that has not yet been published), that part that concerns exactly the discipline of the 600,000 inhabitants, guaranteeing at least one second level DEA for each Region. Otherwise, the health of Molise's citizens, as far as all the time-related issues are concerned, would be seriously debated. I believe that this is not constitutionally possible to accept. We therefore ask that the Government express itself in this sense, giving the possibility at least to a second level DEA for each Region, also because the Molise would be the only Region with less than 600,000 inhabitants not to have a second level DEA. If the Valle d'Aosta can have it, as is right, given the population spread over a mountainous territory, it should also have it our Region, which has about three times the population of the Valle d'Aosta. I think the government should intervene immediately. I say this because these are the days when you decide these things. Therefore, I would also ask the Presidency to ensure that the Government responds promptly to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u93	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, the workers of the former Indesit, now Whirlpool, have been fighting with all their strength for days against the industrial plan presented by the American Whirlpool, which provides - we all know it now - 1,350 redundancies and the closure of three factories, the result of yet another irresponsible action by the Italian Government, which has thought well to abandon and leave its workers alone. But we in the 5 Star Movement decided instead of fighting by their side, and I promised that every day I would make a speech in this House. We fight with them, for their right to work, for their right to dignity. Yesterday the workers of the Carinaro headquarters, where there are 815 workers who risk their jobs, went to the American embassy and delivered a desperate letter asking for help and support. Today it is even more serious: some of these same Carinaro workers have climbed to the roof of the plant. I believe that this situation is really worrying and that it is really unworthy to bring these workers to such desperate actions, hoping that they will not end even worse. I believe that they are at least responsible for the precise and clear answers we put in the questioning with abbreviated 2-00267, which we presented on 29 April and which I hope will be discussed in this House, as the Rules of Procedure provide, within 15 days of the deposit, because at least to clear and precise answers these people are entitled to. I repeat that we of the 5 Star Movement will not do as the Italian Government that has left them alone: we will continue this battle at their side. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u94	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-442.ana.u95	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, May 6, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.43.
