ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u4	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u8	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the text of the ILVA Decree-Law on the development of Taranto. For the general discussion on confidence, which will begin once the opinion of the Budget Committee on financial coverage profiles has been obtained, two hours have been allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The explanations of vote will then follow and the call will therefore start around 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u11	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, last night, with the arrival of Mr Boschi and the issue of trust, the speeches at the end of the sitting were missed. I would have liked to speak in order to make a very important complaint to this House, so I would ask you for the institutional courtesy to have me speak now - a minute and a half will suffice - since we are all present and above all considering that today too we will probably not be able to take the speeches at the end of the sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The speeches at the end of the sitting will be taken today, so you will be able to speak later. AIROLA (M5S). I am sorry, then, because it will be a complaint that I will make in an empty Chamber; but that is clearly the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u14	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, I have here with me the Rules of Procedure for theversion of oppositions. Rule 96 refers to the request for non-transition to articles. On several occasions, at the time when the question of trust was raised, we tried to get the floor to ask for the non passage to the articles. We have asked for the floor at various times, even by written request, but it has never been granted to us. My question, which I have already put to President Grasso and which I refer to her, is: at what time of the sitting we can make this request and have the floor, because every time we have been denied it. If we do not do so, we will put an end to Article 96 and solve the problem. I ask you for an answer now, because it is scandalous that this question has not yet been answered. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u15	I'll get back to you right away. Under Rule 63 of our Rules of Procedure, which governs the power to speak, the senators can speak exclusively in the Assembly, and whenever they request - as a priority - representatives of the Government. In this sense, last night, when the Minister asked for the floor, he spoke first. Then we'll do all the necessary checks. MARTELLI (M5S). We asked for the floor, too. AIROLA (M5S). As always.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u16	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1733. I recall that in yesterday's afternoon session the Government put the question of trust in the approval of amendment 1,700, entirely replacing the single article of bill No 1733, of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u19	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking on the Rules of Procedure. This is the 200th time I have done so on this issue and I will repeat it again. Mr Martelli referred to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, which has nothing to do with Rule 63. Since the Rules of Procedure to date are the same for both myself and the Presidency and for the majority, I demand that they be read and interpreted in the same way. I am not, Madam President, making fools of the mischievous games that were made last night at the time of the request not to move on to the articles. At that moment we have the right to speak and to make our request. The President may take responsibility for doing so, but he certainly cannot ignore any senator and act almost swindly. This game was played at 7:57 p.m., so three minutes before the scheduled closing time, to make sure that the government demanded 30th confidence (if not more). It is truly a disgrace, it is indeed a scandal that any President-in-Office lends himself to these games of the majority; that is absolutely not acceptable, Madam President. I want it to be put to the record that this is absolutely unacceptable. It is unacceptable that any President-in-Office should be a servant of the majority, as has been the case up to now. I say this and subscribe to it: servants of the majority. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u20	Senator Santangelo, Rule 63 of the Rules of Procedure comes directly from Rule 64, last paragraph, of the Constitution, which says: The members of the Government, even if they are not members of the Chambers, are entitled, and if required, to attend the sessions. They must be heard whenever they require it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u21	SANTANGELO (M5S). This is an abuse of the Constitution! Don't make fun of me! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, everyone, calm down. Senator Santangelo, that is absolutely not my intention. Thank you. However, your comments remain in the record. SANTANGELO (M5S). Read the Regulations and study them, ignorant! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u22	The insults don't serve each other.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u23	SANTANGELO (M5S). You ignore the Rules of Procedure, Madam President: that is not an insult. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Azzollini, to report to the Assembly on the financial coverage profiles of amendment 1,700.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u24	Madam President, the text of the amendment on which the Government put the question of trust reproduces exactly the text approved in the Commission. We therefore have no relevance, having repeatedly examined all the amendments that have been tabled, their wordings, their texts 2 and so on. Having already given an opinion on the whole text, we have no comments to make. However, we ask the Government to correct a point in the text of amendment 1,700, on which trust has been placed. In Article 3, the penultimate paragraph, after paragraph 5, there is a reference to Article 1 (3) of Decree-Law No 129 of 7 August 2012. The reference is not to be understood in paragraph 3, but in paragraph 4. I say this because it is a matter of special accounting and accounting and is therefore of particular relevance to us. We therefore call on the Government to amend this paragraph, Madam President, only for the sake of the punctuality of the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u25	The government, I guess, agrees because it's just a refutation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u26	Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The amendment is therefore accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u29	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, as Group President, I would like to speak. You, last night, attended the Conference of Leaders, being present, and you are well aware of the heavy confrontation I had with President Grasso. My colleagues have made a request which I would like to repeat: please tell me what the exact time is, without reference to Rules 63 or 96 of the Rules of Procedure, when we can request that we do not move to the Rules of Procedure. We no longer want any uncertainty about whether to ask for it before or after, because in this way you take away the possibility of exercising our right-duty. I therefore demand that we be told when we can intervene to make this request. I'll repeat the request. Take away your doubts.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u30	Senator Marton, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, this request can be made before moving to the vote on the amendments. That is what the Rules of Procedure say. I repeat, however, for the sake of transparency between us, that when the Government asks for the floor, always according to the Rules of Procedure, its request is accepted first. [[Senator Santangelo's lively protests]] Senator Santangelo, I invite you, because we have all read the Rules of Procedure and crossed the different articles... SANTANGELO (M5S). Read Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure: read it in full! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, the Rules of Procedure are clear to all and have been applied. Please, I've already answered three times. SANTANGELO (M5S). Read it all, it's not like that, it doesn't say that. He's lying. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He may not be satisfied, I understand. SANTANGELO (M5S). Call me back, but I won't stop. Call me back. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you want me to call you back, Senator Santangelo, I will. [[Reiterate Senator Santangelo's protests.]] If you want to, since you're asking me to call you back, I'll call you back. I'm calling Senator Santangelo back. SANTANGELO (M5S). That is not what it says in the Rules of Procedure. She's lying knowing she's lying. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, I've already called you back.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u33	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, this is exactly what I am speaking about. Dear President, you know perfectly well, because I also went to see the shorthand report, that a few seconds before the arrival of Minister Boschi, while the Undersecretary De Vincenti looked around trying to lengthen his speech waiting for the arrival of the Minister (who in the meantime was also asking for trust in the Chamber), colleagues senators of the 5 Star Movement had already raised their hand. You, Mr President, know perfectly well that everything has not been settled: I tell you with great calm and firmness. At this point, whenever trust is placed - and now we are used to it because it happens every week - we will be forced to present in writing, placing ourselves near the benches of the Government and the Presidency, our request not to move to the articles and to time it all. I say this very quietly, because it is no longer possible here to continue in this way. We must all be sure that the rules are respected. In fact, it will easily happen that you move to the opposition because, you know, the wheel spins. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I want to see what you're gonna do. Since you have already been in opposition, you also know how much you shouted when there were tears from the Rules of Procedure. But what is now happening repeatedly, continuously and constantly in this parliamentary term, Madam President, has never been seen in this House. Therefore, I should like to make this matter quite clear. And, at least as far as we are concerned, we will exercise this option, that is to make the request in writing by time of the Government's arrival. In fact, you knew perfectly well, as everyone knew, that he was coming to ask the question of trust. On the other hand, we are used to tricks and tricks, as has also been seen in the question of the maxi amendment, because they are used to them all the time. [[Brusio.]] President Azzollini, who has already mixed up a lot of them on this maxi amendment and on this decree-law, could at least have the good education to go and chat outside the Chamber! SANTANGELO (M5S). Bravo! DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). As far as we are concerned, you should remember - and this applies to the whole Presidency - that from now on we will constantly use the request in writing, over time. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u34	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law is yet another demonstration of the inability of this Government, beyond the fake proclamations of its President-in-Office, to address seriously and in innovative terms the very serious issue of the ILVA in Taranto. The city of Taranto is once again illusory to be able to continue a path of solid and lasting economic development and is placed in an indecent way in the face of the choice between the health of its children and the need to safeguard the minimum occupational levels of an area, moreover, already strongly tested by a difficult economic and social crisis. And indeed the most ignoble page of this decree-law, from which clearly emerges the meaning of the intervention of the Government, is constituted precisely by the allocation of 5 million euros for the structures of pediatric onco-hematology and similar activities. This is a shameful hypocrisy, very stupid, however, through which Renzi & company. try to make this decree-law appear as an instrument of defense of the health of the children of Taranto. In fact, it is a resounding self-indictment of how Renzi, unable to have courage in the choices pertaining to the industrial policies of this country, intends to wash his conscience by giving a little begging to the poor sick of the city. A shame! Instead of truly defending the health of Taranto's children, what does the government do? Pay money to cure them from the evil that will allow you to continue to do them! But how can you even imagine proposing such a decree-law? Gentlemen of the Government, transfer your families to Taranto, go live there with your children, if you have the courage to support this immense offense to the dignity and intelligence of the citizens, represented by a decree-law on which, moreover, you have the impudence to ask the question of trust. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Moreover, if this were a country truly governed by the citizens and not by a caste of power such as the one you represent here in the government, this would be just an opportunity to send you all home. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] How can one be ruled by a crew of young old people, ready to sacrifice the health of the younger generations... [[Senator Buemi's comments.]] I'm talking, be ashamed! Wait your turn! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator, let the senator who is in the debate speak. Please. [[Senator Buemi's comments.]] Everyone has the right to say how he feels in this House. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Senator Airola, there is the presidency that regulates the debate. Go ahead, Senator Ciampollo. How can one be ruled by a crew of young old people, ready to sacrifice the health of the young generations of an entire city, in order not to take really courageous choices, able to give an effective and strategic turning point to an entire territory. And Puglia is my land! Taranto no longer needs sickness and death. Taranto, like many other areas of our country, only needs a new hope for its future and to aim for a truly sustainable development, based on the valorization of the environment and cultural and tourist resources. The strong powers (yes, the strong powers) once again find their protection even imagining in this decree-law a kind of shield of non punishableness on the figure of the extraordinary commissioner. But what country do we live in? The measures proposed by the Government are a further page of a precarious and provisional political vision, which is incapable of drawing up a serious project for the development and revitalization of the territory concerned. It finds unequivocal confirmation of the fake newness of this Government. As the 5 Star Movement has already had the opportunity to denounce publicly, it is time to build a new future for the entire Taranto area that, while respecting the needs of the world of work, can focus its commitment on the real resources of the territory, such as the sea, culture and tourism. In this perspective we need a courageous and new political vision and, moreover, the Government had the solution ready in this context. Citizenship income can in fact be the innovative tool to ensure greater serenity in dealing with a problem in which all too often on the altar of the interests of large industry and some policy-makers have sacrificed the fundamental rights of people, including, primarily, health, especially that of children. For these reasons, too, the decree-law under consideration is not and cannot be the right answer to the needs of citizens. Once again, politics continues to address the problem of the ILVA of Taranto with the logic of those who seek a contingent consensus, even - it happens - in view of the forthcoming regional elections in Puglia. Today more than ever, in the light of the very recent data on the serious damage to health that have affected the citizenship of the Taranto area concerned in recent years, courage and foresight are needed. "Renzi & company ", beyond the hypocrisy of the image and the proclamations, with the decree-law in question offer the country the oldest and useless answer. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u36	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u37	Madam President, we are now at the thirty-fourth apposition of the question of trust. Indeed, if Mr Boschi was asking the House yesterday, we are probably at the thirty-fifth. It is difficult to keep track, because Matthew Renzi's real record lies precisely in this, in the question of trust. I have already been talking about the question of trust and it could not have been otherwise, since in a year we found ourselves having three a month, so by rotation it has to happen to more than one at a time. It is certainly, as I have already said, a strong act of weakness of the Government. We have also got tired of repeating these statements, but getting tired means laying down weapons. We are tired of repeating, but doing so is important: it is necessary to repeat to the Renzi government that its constitutional reform has not yet passed and that it will take time for it to pass, because fortunately we are forced to a referendum, given the narrow majority it has had in the House. Therefore, the Renzi Parliament is not the one in office, it is not yet this Parliament, which would have the duty and the right to discuss government measures here in this House, yet I no longer have any memory of a decree-law discussed in this House. I would also like to add that the Constitution does not provide for the question of trust; indeed, this blackmail that the Government places on its majority whenever it issues a decree-law is something abnormal, exceptional, which has become a rule. On the contrary, in the fourth paragraph of Article 94, the Constitution provides that even if the Chambers, one or both, voted against a measure of the Government, this would not imply its resignation. Therefore, there is absolutely no obligation: yet in republican history it has never happened that a government fell on a matter of trust. The weak, uncertain, insecure governments force this act of blackmail and know that they can always win it. We know that a government, which we also fought a lot for the interference of the President of the Council, like the fourth Berlusconi Government, requested only 53 votes of confidence, with an average of 1.2 per month, while the Renzi Government is over three votes of confidence per month. For what? To approve this theater. We have seen some theatres, even at the end of the Commission's work. The final theater was on the amendment, which we would all vote for, on the strengthening of ARPA Puglia. On that occasion there was a real theater of the majority and that important amendment was withdrawn one minute before the report arrived; it is not possible that the majority and the rapporteurs were unaware that that report was ready and coming. We have therefore seen the theatre, the Minister who came in bringing the good news while the rapporteurs had already withdrawn the amendment. The Government had made an informal commitment to include it, on its own initiative, in the maxi amendment, but that was not the case. This theater is a great deception, because the ILVA is dying. It is an impossible equation to hold up a company whose leaders are under process together with the leaders of the local authorities for association with criminals and environmental disaster. It is a company that pollutes, that it loses 30 million per month, that it is abandoned by the customers because it produces poor steel, that it has three billion of debts and for which it needs three billion ulterior for the putting in refunctionalizzazione: it takes 300 million for the cover of the future losses, 500 million for the recovery of the stocks, 300 million for the urgent maintenances, still 200 million for the blast furnace 5 and approximately two billion for the adaptation to the integral authorization environmental. These are the accounts. There is also talk of reclamation in this decree-law, a reclamation of which had already been mentioned three years ago, for which 110 million had already been allocated. Finally, we are going to use two of those 110 million, i.e. we are now cleaning up, perhaps, 0.1% of the land that should be reclaimed. It would be necessary to replace two billion cubic meters of surface ground, because pollution around this plant has a radius of 20 kilometers, and there is a prohibition of grazing, walking, playing ball, going out into the school area. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Banks' loans amounted to 1.45 billion out of the three deficits; and of these, 900 million came under Intesa São Paulo. So we know that the newco, who will have to pay a rent with taxpayers' money to pay these debts, is paying the banks and in particular Intesa São Paulo. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u38	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u39	Madam President, this is the seventh time that a measure has arrived to address a painful issue for our country, for that region and for the city of Taranto. It is painful for the reasons for which it has become a problem and for the consequences now explicitly recognised by all in terms of public health. It is painful because it combines very important problems, from an economic, social, but also legal point of view, two major issues, namely the right to work, to have the ability to produce, to organize the economic and industrial activity of a country, a region and a city, with the right to health, to the safeguard of life, which is the most precious asset we possess and which we must protect. The way in which the debate on this subject is completed, because of how the debate ended yesterday, but also of a sort of parliamentary resignation, is that we give up, by a masochistic act for the republican institutions and for the values and principles of the Constitution, to fully exercise our role. And we also decide not to do so in matters which are of absolute relevance to the precedents they constitute, even with this measure. We do not understand what we are giving up, and of what interest. Because it is certainly not for the national interest or for the interest of that regional community or of that city that we behave like this. We are there, subordinates to the timetables and calendars. There was a real political reason, I would understand. But instead there is an attitude and the renunciation of being Senate of the Republic at least until the conclusion of the process of constitutional reform. So this House is a little rude to everyone, let's face it. And we do not defend it: we do not defend it who performs the function before the responsibility of this House and we do not defend it either. And this does not help the country, nor does the solution of the problems we face, including this. Here new legal instruments are established, derogation from a general system of rules governing the proper functioning of society, economic relations and institutional relations. There is a tense intervention on civil law, criminal law and the scheme of responsibilities of those who govern and manage matters of this nature in the name and on behalf of the State. It is through a process of nationalization of an industrial plant, in contrast to Community legislation. And I am glad, because it represents a precedent of which we must be aware, because what concerns Taranto perhaps also concerns Carbonia. And then, perhaps, we need to reflect when we do regulatory acts like these, because the consequences will not only be regulatory, but also economic, and certainly social. And they will be demanded by our territories, which will all advance the right to have recognized an industrial activity that is also strategic, because steel is strategic, but someone also claims that aluminium is strategic. And there is still more, which we know has been produced and produced again, perhaps with great difficulty within our country. All this, Madam President - and I also say this to my fellow Members - is done in the absence of an industrial policy, when we are selling out all our productive capacity to those who know who it is. We do not have this awareness and we do not even have the awareness of the tragedy that has been caused to our country for the absence of a real industrial policy that also concerned environmental aspects, those related to health. Industrial production shall not be made unless account is taken, in addition to the effects directly linked to production activity, also of economic, social, environmental and related to that given production activity. When we give up on doing this, we prove that we are not a mature institution. I say this by addressing Parliament. The government is also in a hurry: they are the most pressured, because those who govern have this misfortune; but they also have the power to handle this misfortune. It is up to us who make the laws, which are the legal precedents that are relevant in the future, to intervene. He shouts for revenge that an amendment such as the one proposed to strengthen the ARPA has been deleted. Have you read it? There was an intervention to deny the ARPA an integration of the staff due to the controls inserted. The Minister must come here every six months to account for the progress of environmental protection and restoration operations! And who controls them? We have prevented the hiring of twenty or thirty more people, technicians to assist those who have responsibility, and we have prevented it for a human misery (because elections are planned and you never know what can involve hiring, a contest or a stabilization). But it is in these cases that the maturity of a Parliament is shown: the fact that it has to deal with these issues, in a complex situation like this, and it is lost in these miseries, Madam President, I think, deserves a reflection. Is it possible and sustainable then that 500,000 euros represent a strengthening of paediatric oncology activity? [[Comments of Senator Valdinosis.]] Is it possible that EUR 500 000 has been allocated for the current year and EUR 4.5 million for the coming year? But let's be serious! Do you know what it means to set up a properly equipped diagnostic system, capable of intervening in preventive activity, early diagnosis, to save the lives of people who have been compromised? I think we must not give up, Madam President, on our role. It's the thirty-fourth trust, but I'm not shocked. However, the work to be done in the Commission must be safeguarded; and the work done in the Commission must be serious and must not be stopped in half. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and Senator Maurizio Romani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u40	Senator Lezzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u41	Madam President, with this umpteenth confidence, it is clear that the Government has created all the conditions to be able to justify itself - as it is now customary to do, exactly as the Berlusconi Government did - and to blame the magistrates, first of all because they put themselves in the wrong direction and, perhaps, because they want to continue to prosecute the guilty. Then he will take it out on the "committees," on the citizens, on the sick, on the children of Taranto, but it will not be his fault because the government has put it all, so much so that he has also managed to insert the rule on full immunity. But why did he do it? It is appalling to point this out. Since there is an ongoing process of environmental disaster, a "procession" in progress, then what does the government do? You have to give immunity to those who are going to operate within this company. So, you give yourself the power to continue committing that crime and that guilt. It's like you're telling a rapist: keep your victim still and keep doing what you want while I keep pretending to work, pretending to save a city. Or it's like allowing a stalker to continue stalking his victim as a trial goes on and that victim dies in the meantime. Or maybe it's like leaving a white card robber to continue robbing with his weapons while I, meanwhile, carry on the trial with a series of decrees that hinder me, but still trying to move on. In all this there is the victim: the woman being raped or the shopkeeper being robbed. In this case there is an entire city that is vexed, humiliated, that has become ill and that will probably die whole. In fact, the only thing that seems to emerge from the intentions of this Government is that sooner or later you will arrive in Taranto, as well as in the land of fires, to say: but are you still there? Are you still alive? Haven't we all been able to slaughter you like farmers do with a flock yet? Just as mussels can no longer be fished, because there is dioxin and mothers have to go and do tests because otherwise they cannot breastfeed their children. And all this is happening in the heart of Europe, in the great civil Europe that the Democratic Party wants so much to build, defend and safeguard without dealing with the fact that Europe will probably stop this mechanism as well. Unfortunately, in my opinion, Europe will go on because for it the important thing, as for Renzi, is to save the banks. What we do with this operation, in fact, is to safeguard the credit of the banks. Then the ILVA will be left to die, all the poison will be left there and all Taranto will die. We would like, instead, perhaps an act of lucidity and foresight. Maybe the government could go to Taranto, bravely, talk to the citizens, the "committees", the associations, the environmentalists, the magistrates and also with two young researchers from that city who did a very interesting study; you could lose five minutes of your time and read it. This study illustrates an economic plan that shows everything Taranto could produce and do if the ILVA were not there. There may be even more of us in the care of it than there are now. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I'm not saying it. Two researchers say it. Among other things it must also be emphasized that of the 11,000 - because they are not 20,000 - ILVA employees, more than half are perpetually in Cassa Integrazione. So we're subtracting public money for that, too. I am Apulian, Salento and Lecce, and we are also polluted, so it would not be enough to plan B of President Azzollini according to which it would be enough to move the Tamburi district to solve the problem of Taranto. He probably needs to look into the situation, too. I really invite you to broaden your horizons. You could really pursue what you want to do, that is, save the whole city. Is it true that you want to do this, majority? You want to save the city? Then spend a week in that city. Do not talk to Vendola because he is also an inquisition, he is also guilty and he is also an accomplice. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] He also took the walks and laughs with Archina. Forget it, go beyond all this and go and speak directly with the workers, with mothers, with children in oncology, with citizens and with those who want to operate economically in Taranto, but seriously. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, let us greet the students and students of the Institute including Piazza Minucciano in Rome. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that my grandfather was right when he said that nothing should be thrown away. I looked through the paperwork that some of us a little more scholarly would call archives and tracked down the interventions I did during the examination of the previous six measures related to ILVA. President, these statements are all the same, identical: the number of the decree-law changes, the date changes, but they are all the same. I was also a little worried because at some point I thought I was monotonous and had no ideas: then, instead, rereading the measures, I got a little'relieved because I realized that it was the measures that were all the same and the problems always the same, with solutions always messy or, even better, useless and ineffective. Inside those interventions there was a specific passage in which I mentioned Monti and Letta: it was enough to insert also the reference to Renzi and the interventions have returned to be an incredible topicality. Not to mention the "baptism" phrases in front of the cameras, and here I refer a little 'to what happened last night at the end of the session: the indicted sentence is the one pronounced by the new president Renzi at the time: "No more confidence in the measures" So much is abused the instrument of confidence that the same former head of the State Giorgio Napolitano has indicated a danger of marginalization of the Parliament and of weakening its role as controller. Allow me then to say a little bit about the Minister Boschi, who was very busy on two fronts with regard to the issue of trust, who last night - and I personally did a little bit of tenderness - came here in a rush, rushed the question of trust in front of the few close people present in this House and ran away in a hurry without even giving us the time to contest it a bit, and we are very sorry about that. Turning to the measure, Mr President, over the last few decades there has been a profound structural change in the steel sector, linked mainly to the globalisation of production which has led to a crisis that has mainly affected large companies. It is no coincidence that Parliament has recently been involved in the resolution of critical problems related to our largest companies in the sector, with Ilva in the first place, but it is also the case of Lucchini, with the plants of Piombino and Trieste, and of the AST of Terni, of which yesterday we audited in the Commission industry the managing director, a brilliant blonde lady who did not really escape all the doubts that we had, indeed, probably raised some more. Some say - and I add with a good view - that we are talking about all strategic enterprises for the economy of this country, but they are enterprises that are experiencing a deep crisis, that is creating serious employment repercussions in this country that we absolutely do not need, with a 14% unemployment and a 40-45 percent youth unemployment, despite some efforts to say that there is a shy recovery. These are realities that are similar in several respects, which have a common matrix, that of the economic and financial crisis and which are nevertheless due to a lack of industrial policy in the country, as well as to the lack of an overall view of the national steel sector. Yesterday (and I repeat this because it is right that the new President should take some credit home) I listened to some arguments, which I had not found - perhaps I was inattentive - in the speeches of good President Renzi in this House, in the speech of President Mattarella, who, as everyone knows, did not receive the vote of our Group. But we must give Mattarella what is Mattarella's. He spoke of the long crisis that has prolonged every other limit, which has inflicted wounds on the social fabric of our country - and here it seems that the good President is on track - which has increased injustices, generated new poverty, produced marginalization and loneliness. Anguish lurks in many families because of the difficulties that take away the future from girls and boys. We talked about more than 40% of youth unemployment. He also made a number of very specific points: the work that so many young people lack, especially in the Mezzogiorno, the loss of employment, exclusion and the difficulties encountered in guaranteeing fundamental social rights and services. He considered these points as the important agenda for this Government and its new term of office, which will last seven years. I don't know if we're gonna ask him for an extension. We'll see. We must be able to avoid the risk that the economic crisis will affect respect for the principles and values on which the social pact enshrined in the Constitution is based and, in order to get out of the crisis that has seriously broken the national and European economy, we must nourish the reversal of the long-awaited economic cycle. This is practically what we do not find in this decree. So the good President has actually made some very good points. Then we promptly ignored them. I said that the Italian steel industry has not historically enjoyed, like other international companies, a political will aimed at defending and protecting excellence. This has fostered the penetration into the international giants sector, whose mission is alien to the protection of steel excellence and the interest of maintaining Italian production. Over the last decade, steel production in Europe has fallen sharply in the face of the growth in the quantity of steel produced in other countries such as China, generating concern about the future of the European and Italian steel industry, which has long been threatened by deindustrialisation. When they close and are closing our steel companies in Italy, I believe that the Germans, Germany and Merkel will celebrate, and certainly not with our prosecco, but with their beer. The decline in production is undoubtedly dependent on the reduction of domestic demand in manufacturing and construction sectors caused by the economic crisis, but it depends mainly on the operating difficulties of ILVA as a result of the plant blockage and, in particular, the unique hot furnaces of the company in the Taranto plant. According to yesterday's news, oven No. 5 seems to have closed down and about 4,000 jobs are at risk, regardless of the turn that this measure will then give to that company. This situation is putting to the test all the companies of the induced, of which as Group we have been concerned because we speak of 14,000 employees, but the induced encounters as much difficulty in the aspect of the collection of the credits. They risk bankruptcy due to lack of orders, liquidity and payments by ILVA. We asked that a good part of the money available for ILVA (the "fresh" ones) be given immediately to these enterprises that have well supported ILVA as external companies. Our Group has fought in the Committee on the Protection of Businesses and the Recognition of Credits from Businesses for the Services provided to ILVA. The amendments tabled by the rapporteurs for the sector with the agreement of the Government are in fact a sin of lack of clarity. It is not understood whether the definition of the services necessary for the continuity of the activity of the production plants considered essential must also include the services and supplies of all the induced and if these include the credits of the road haulage companies. Here, too, I signal the great battle that has been waged by us in favour of road hauliers, who are probably the first thermometer of the inability of these steel companies to do turnover. We regret that our amendments have not been taken into account (but this often happens and is part of the game) which would certainly have solved all aspects related to the transport sector and the pipeline. We gave many free suggestions and this was not recognized. The question of amendments and sub-amendments, of these government amendments that sometimes become cathedrals that bring together some serious amendments tabled by minorities, is sometimes depressing for our work, but when some proposals are transposed, even if they will then have another signature, it is important because it can put in condition a decree-law to be converted with some good idea. Around the reality of the ILVA industry there are about 4,000 companies, of which about 2,000 are concentrated in Lombardy and Piedmont alone. ILVA's suppliers today have a turnover of more than 2.5 billion, of which 1.5 billion euros involves small and medium-sized enterprises, which have always been the least protected. Among the most important slices, about 350 million concern contracts, another 200 million are related to raw materials, another 400 million are connected to the management of the energy supply chain; one hundred million go in exchanges, especially in Lombardy, where more than 1,500 ILVA suppliers are active, but they are subjects very present also in Piedmont, Veneto and even in Liguria. We are aware that a possible closure of the factory in Taranto, where hot furnaces work, would lead to the closure of all the other ILVA plants on the national territory, with serious repercussions for our industry, for the induced and for the occupation in general. This is a situation which would create a social emergency and which would exacerbate the economic crisis that the country is going through. We never thought, Madam President, that ILVA was a reality to close. However, we have always been concerned about the approach that over the years, especially from sale to private, has never been very sincere in the consideration that Mr. Riva then had towards the territory. We are not sure, however, that the Government really realizes the situation and I believe that some intervention of the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement has, in tones, preceded this consideration. We are approving yet another ILVA decree-law, the seventh, and the situation is getting worse and worse. I do not know if we are wasting time and money, but certainly the approach to this measure and this issue did not like it, because, in our opinion, this is not the way to intervene: if we want to safeguard the industrial heritage of the country we must change logic, abandon the path of welfare interventions and focus on a serious industrial policy. In this regard, I return and refer to the question that the President of the Republic stressed in his first speech: the need for an industrial policy. In the 10th Commission, where, among other things, we have done excellent work with our colleagues in the Environment Commission, we have celebrated more funerals than baptisms. There has been a procession of subjects who are audited, but who come because of problems related to closure, relocation, putting into the fund integration. President Cucchetti looks at me and is trying to understand if I am speaking seriously, but I really say that we would very much like to celebrate the baptism of some beautiful company here in Italy, even with foreign investors. This does not happen; so many funerals, as I said, in various ways. Let's hope the ILVA doesn't have that conclusion. No one can deny that in the crisis situation of the Ilva... I invite you to conclude, Senator. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). How much time did I have, President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He was 15 minutes old and already used 17 minutes. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). I should like to conclude with a very simple point. Even in the past, with the other measures, there was a commissioner, a subcommissor, committees of experts, an endless team of consultants, engineers, technicians; there were a couple of years of institutional, judicial battles (I don't know when these measures will end), a year of conflicts between experts, judges and environmentalists; conflicts within the House, the Senate, seven decrees - and I don't know if we have come to the end - and it hasn't changed much. We also took a tour of two, three days at the ILVA in Taranto; they indicated a nice, clean, quiet route, without dust and without any particular troubles, from which it was not necessary to depart even by half a meter. This is not what this Group is interested in and probably does not interest all the members of this Senate either. Of these measures perhaps one day we will also have to draw up a single text that encloses them all and try to figure out how to behave. In essence, we would like for the Drums district and for all the people who work in Taranto, a situation that can restore dignity to the neighborhood, but more generally to a city that has probably seen too many dead and sick. The Lega Nord and Autonomie Group will be very vigilant on this issue and will try to bring as seriously as possible its proposal to put in real condition the other industries in the North to remain calm. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u44	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u45	Madam President, Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, here we are faced with yet another question of trust: 34 of them have been counted since the Renzi Government arrived. The practice is now well established. The incipit is the announcement of an imminent decree in the press or during a Council of Ministers; the beginning of the parliamentary process in one of the two Chambers. The work of the relevant Commissions begins, the involvement of stakeholders and employers' organisations during the hearings, and so on, until the text, as amended by the Commission, arrives in the Chamber. Here, after the general discussion, the legislative process is broken and immobilized. This practice is mortifying to say the least; Parliament no longer carries out its primary functions, but is becoming the government's paralegislative arm. In the meantime, however, practice is regularly respected. Yesterday, too, the Presidency gave time for the submission of sub-amendments to give the opportunity to propose amendments to the rapporteurs' amendments: pure institutional hypocrisy, because we had already been aware for days that the ILVA Decree-Law would be blocked following the request for trust. Moreover, this decree-law does not give any benefit to the serious crisis of ILVA. It's the seventh and it doesn't seem to me that things have improved. There is no doubt that there is a need and urgency to address this sensitive industrial, environmental and employment issue, but what is well emphasized is that Ilva's condition has not suddenly come as a natural disaster, but has been going on for years. Secondly, the adoption of this decree-law is not justified in the light of the fact that State intervention is only appropriate if temporary and transitional. Instead, the ILVA has been subject to state management since 2013, first through the Commission for environmental reasons and now through the extraordinary administration with the appointment of three extraordinary commissioners. But the question that arises is, what changes? Perhaps some less authorization and some more ministerial opinion, but the substance remains the same. In this decree-law there is no reference to the long term, there is no glimpse of a time horizon that goes beyond a few months and there are few resources available to prepare a concrete plan of industrial strategy and a serious plan of environmental recovery. Above all, as a demonstration of the fact that nothing has changed, it is good to point out that the decree-law has been in force since 5 January and therefore has had its effects for almost two months. But yesterday's news is that today, too, blast furnace 5 stops; the latter guarantees about 50% of the production of cast iron. In addition, the blast furnace 1 remains stationary for maintenance. As a result, solidarity contracts would affect almost 4,000 workers. Forza Italia has tried until the last time to dialogue in the Commission, in order to accept substantial changes to the decree, that would certainly make it better and more attentive to the primary needs of the citizens and that would allow a strategic and incisive action for one of the most important poles in Europe. Once again, the government has preferred the way of closing the dialogue and of schizophrenic choices, which look on the one hand to immediate electoral convenience and on the other hand are concerned only to indicate short-term interim solutions. And the results, unfortunately only partial, obtained by Forza Italia with its amendments are not enough to judge positively this decree-law. We can only note for the umpteenth time that this Renzi Government disregards the real needs of the country and the Italians, in order to declare, in a press conference, that the argument ILVA is concluded and defined. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u46	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u47	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the last of a long series of ILVA decree-laws, the largest steel plant not only in Italy but also in Europe, with a production capacity of 8 million tonnes of steel per year, finally arrives in the Chamber for its approval. To be precise, this is the seventh decree issued since the implants were seized by the judiciary in August 2012. All the previous measures were designed to solve the problem definitively, but they proved inadequate and inadequate in practice. What was perhaps lacking was the identification of a precise strategy, which balanced the interests of the company and those of environmental protection. The problem is that, while waiting for an appropriate solution, time has passed inexorably, putting on its knees an entrepreneurial reality already strongly compromised and that has run the risk of disappearing, with obvious deleterious consequences for the entire social and economic fabric of the Taranto and Apulian territory. Unfortunately, even on the environment and health front, the previous measures have not achieved the desired results, with the result that we are faced with a European infringement procedure. The industrial and environmental issue we are dealing with is undoubtedly complex and, I would say, costly. It is a story that draws its origins from a management of the company that defines bankruptcy is a euphemism; a management characterized by omissions, guilty negligence and corruption, interwoven with a different awareness of the repercussions that the poor environmental protection has on the territory. ILVA has been the symbol of the failure of a certain industrial policy of our country, a lively god surpassed today. Politics could not remain indifferent and it is essential to assume serious and concrete responsibilities. It was necessary to overcome definitively the economic-social model created by this company, with a strong intervention of the State that gave a new direction. And it is with this awareness that I immediately expressed the need to prepare a directing booth at Palazzo Chigi, which coordinated all the interventions and institutional actors involved, in order to ensure that this decree was organic and above all effective. This desire to reverse the course characterizes the measure and differentiates it from previous interventions, together with the awareness that it is the last chance. It must be clear to everyone that the ILVA, with everything it represents, is saved now or there will be no more time, knowing that this also involves environmental recovery, that it is not achieved by permanently sinking the society but by having it restarted. And that is clear we see it also from the important economic resources put in place, that can guarantee the productive continuity and employment, but at the same time the environmental recovery of the territory. The first step will be to allow the restart of the industrial process, made possible also thanks to the release of 156 million euros of the funds of Fintecna and the granting of ordinary lines of credit for about 260 million euros, that the banks have made available also thanks to the decisive intervention of the Government, a government - I repeat - of national responsibility. And, always on the resources front, of primary importance is the legislative intervention in order to clearly define the procedure in order to make available, on the part of the extraordinary administration, the resources seized from Riva from the Milan Public Prosecutor that amount to approximately 1,2 billion euros; resources from which the Rivas have distanced themselves, saying that they are not only them, and therefore are fully available and it is right that they are used to heal. Our wish is clear that the judiciary can also recover the other 700 million: fundamental resources to ensure the indispensable work of environmental rehabilitation. The work in the Commission has been oriented towards defining a perspective vision for the plant, from now on and for the future; a work that has allowed us to overcome the initial doubts, which in fact led to a step forward and two behind in the examination of the measure. And the direction, centrally coordinated, has allowed to deepen and overcome the different criticalities. The work in the Commission was constructive and based on cooperation with the Government, thanks also to the contribution of information acquired in the numerous hearings. This has led to an ongoing improvement of a perfectable text, also thanks to the efforts of the rapporteurs, whom I thank for their work. With their amendments they sought a synthesis and a balance between the various amending proposals, making everyone involved and aware of the defined framework. As Vice-President of the Environment Commission, I have of course considered that I would also comment on the environmental aspects of the measure, and I am glad that my amendment has been accepted in this regard to help the recovery of waste and waste from the production of the ILVA plant. With other proposals I have intervened on other problematic aspects, pointing out the need to broaden the scope of operation of the guarantee fund provided for by the decree-law, in order to widen the audience, too small, of the creditor companies that could benefit from the expected ristori, with the aim of supporting all creditors of the induced ILVA, and suggesting also to intervene on the requirements of access to the fund, on the percentages of coverage and on other aspects of guidance for the real support to the local fabric. It is from yesterday the precious agreement of Minister Lupi with the drivers of the induced. It is a strongly felt theme, with important repercussions on the economic and social fabric. This evidence has been accepted by the rapporteurs, who have had an open and highly collaborative approach, which must be acknowledged. The bitterness remains for the failure to accept the ARPA amendment, but we are sure that the Government will accept this requirement in the next steps. However, with this decree-law starts from ILVA a new environmental policy, with an approach - I dare say - secular to the protection of the environment, as far from that ideological environmentalism of the "no" regardless, but able to contemperate the necessary and necessary environmental protection with the working, social and economic perspectives of the area itself. We want to promote real protection and enhancement of the territory as a whole, which is, at the same time, environment, health, work and economy. Our challenge is to promote a recovery that defines a complete technological modernisation of the site. For this reason the decree-law also adopts measures on the prevention side, including the necessary protection of the environment and the health of the citizens; all in order to make the enterprise again competitive and attractive on the markets, national and foreign. We know in fact how important, primary and driving this company is, able to move economically an entire Region and to give strength to our industrial policy as a whole. But we also know that the recovery of ILVA is not only important for ILVA as such and for the tens of thousands of jobs that will be saved. Such reorganization must, in fact, mark the step of a new industrial approach for the whole country, because many other Italian companies could risk a "ILVA device"; a story able to compromise the Italian manufacturing sector, which instead must be supported and valued in order to recover that primacy that has always marked us in the international scenario. With this decree-law we do not want to return a company still on the verge of bankruptcy, taking on our debts, to make it buy cheap without solving problems. We took a failed company and gave it a concrete development perspective to make it a jewel, also from the technological point of view, and relaunch, with it, the whole Puglia Region. The work of deepening and correcting this text in the Commission has been good work, which I think deserves our confidence, and I hope that in this House we will be able to put aside the personalisms and the easy demagogies, in order to recover that spirit of commitment and sharing of which the members of the Commissions have given excellent proof in recent weeks. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u48	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u49	Madam President, let us say that today we are giving more figures to statistics, this time doubly, since we are at the thirty-fourth trust and the seventh ILVA Decree-Law. They're pretty significant numbers. In fact, as you stand, Madam President, I invite everyone to prepare for next Thursday, when the next confidence in the thousand-pronged decree will be placed. Honestly, I am wondering why the President of the Council is so busy with constitutional reform, since it seems to me that the overcoming of bicameralism has taken place fully and the material Constitution has already reformed in this respect. We only need to know which House the decree-law will be presented to, because only that branch of Parliament - as we know - will have the opportunity to examine it. It will be possible to examine in the Commission, let the Members or senators get out of the way, let us adopt some amendments and then, in any case, the question of trust will come, now as a destiny. It is clear to everyone that this procedure does not only respond to the need to do quickly, otherwise the decrees-laws expire. In the past, other governments have used, as planned, the decree of urgency and confidence. And, therefore, there have always been abuses and references to constitutional principles. For the truth, lately the references to constitutional principles and against the abuse of decree-laws and trust are no longer interested in doing so. It is not a necessity, but it is a clear and precise choice made by this Government. In this way, even when there is no need, the government decides to put its trust because it believes that this is the way to govern and relate to Parliament and the legislative function. It wants to be clear, and therefore does so repeatedly and propagandistly, to use this instrument to reaffirm the idea of command of the Executive on the Legislative. When we make a point - many senators in this House, with regard to the ILVA decree, have made it clear that further study would have been necessary - we do not do so out of rhetoric, as we always say when trust is placed. Coming to the merit of the decree-law in question, on a matter like this, since it is the seventh decree-law on the ILVA, perhaps it was time to start clearly and clearly a reflection that many have tried to make in the last hours during the general discussion, and also in the competent Commissions, to understand if this Government and the country, want, once and for all, to put on the agenda the discussion on industrial policy. Given that we are in a crisis situation in all sectors, do you want to understand once and for all what are the strategic assets on which the country focuses? Since we are a manufacturing country, it is said that steel is a strategic asset and the intervention of the State, with the passage, ordered by the decree-law in question, to the extraordinary administration, represents the return of its strong presence in this sector. I wonder, however, whether we have had such a debate or whether we take it for granted. Are we understanding what is happening globally? Do we really have all the data and tools at our disposal to say that this is exactly the case? I don't know, and it's ours and others' thoughts. But I wonder if there is a full awareness of what we are doing. I don't think so. How are the 165 tables dealt with by Deputy Minister De Vincenti in the Ministry of Economic Development followed? How do we stand? What do we decide? From this point of view, the story of the ILVA is significant and then not enough rhetoric. In the Government's reply yesterday, Deputy Minister De Vincenti used, as usual, words that I would call propaganda and I would now like to reread them. He states that with this decree-law: We are facing an unprecedented challenge: Europe's largest steel plant, the most advanced environmental plan, the largest investment plan, environmental recovery and productive recovery. I think it's time to come out of the propaganda, from the same propaganda that led President Renzi to tell Taranto that, with the decree-law under consideration, we will finally take care of the children of Taranto. I say to the Government - undersecretary Pizzetti, as usual, is on the phone - that perhaps it is time to leave aside rhetoric and propaganda, because the issues before us are very serious and serious, and it is therefore useless for us to come and tell them about the biggest investment plan or the biggest environmental recovery plan. Save us the propaganda in here at least. There is a need to take responsibility and deal with matters, and one I have mentioned is industrial policy. What are the assets we are choosing? Do we really decide and confirm that steel is the strategic asset or one of the strategic assets on which we reposition? And on what condition? This is something that will have to be dealt with sooner or later. Yesterday Renzi, always in a propagandistic momentum, said that we will return to be the first in Europe for productivity. Of course we hope so, but on the basis of what and what policies? That is the question that Parliament should be discussing. The government should come here once and for all to face up to these problems. Very important issues will also need to be addressed: how we clearly and precisely re-convert certain sectors and how industrial and ecological conversion plans are set in motion. They fill the mouths of the biggest environmental policies, but then we saw how these plans start in some areas. We continue to be in the field of propaganda, which is the largest environmental recovery plan. At the seventh decree-law we can only record a total failure from this point of view. I said this yesterday in my speech: someone will tell me if there has been half a hectare of land or sea that has been reclaimed and on which environmental reclamation has been started. I would also like to address my colleague, Mr Valdinosi, who made the final speech for the Democratic Party yesterday, who spoke at the first step while we were at the seventh. She mentioned an improvement in the data. Of course, one oven is closed and another will be closed shortly; production has been virtually reduced. It is clear that there have been improvements from the data point of view, but do we think this is the answer to the environmental recovery plan? They say falsehoods and do not want to admit that, when we reach the seventh decree-law, on the environmental and health front we are faced with a real failure. Once again there is an intervention on the issue of the prescriptions of the AIA, clearly denouncing the fact that we want to do exactly the opposite. Because what does it mean when it is said that, if 80% (only from the numerical and non-substantial point of view of quality) of the interventions of the AIA prescriptions are achieved, the requirements must be considered to be implemented? Once again, a number of elements and regulations are introduced to ensure that the central question of the implementation to the end of the requirements is considered absolutely secondary, and on which to intervene again with tricks. The serious issue is that the health impact assessment is considered only and only an annoyance. Once again, despite the fine words, you do not realize that the future challenge for development (e.g. ILVA and other strategic sectors) is to consider environmental issues as central to relaunching production poles. If you don't, you're gonna crash. I'm closing with a scandalous matter. Of course, I know perfectly well that the government is very used to saying things and making others, to lying. Yesterday, in the meeting of the Commissions, we asked - unanimously by all the members of the Commission, Madam President - that the amendment concerning the derogation, on the regional budget as regards coverage, for the recruitment of personnel in order to implement the organic plant of the ARPA be included in the maxi amendment. Well, the government had said that it would probably include it, but that obviously did not happen. It is a deliberate choice, because it is given the safe conduct to the whole of the commissioner's structure, and it is given as an estimate. This means that there is no intention of fully implementing the requirements of the AIA and we are already thinking of putting into practice the behaviours that are configured as crimes. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]] We therefore grant ourselves a license to criminals but, in a clear and precise manner and therefore, arson, we do not allow the ARPA to implement the controls. And we'll see what happens! The paradoxical situation will be that the poor technicians and experts employees of the ARPA will risk the guarantee notice, because they do not have the staff and the tools to do the controls, while the gentlemen of the police structure will safely have the license to kill yes, license to kill once again the environment and the future of those people. This is a very serious choice, and the Government, even as the maxi amendment came to an end, has done so in a clear and conscious way. And perhaps next time, with another amendment by the rapporteur and the Government, the safe conduct will also be extended to some President of the Commission, who will thus be more facilitated in the performance of his profession. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Nugnes]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u50	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u51	Madam President, I listened to Senator De Petris inviting me to give up rhetoric and propaganda. But I think that here, rhetoric and propaganda are nothing more than the meaning of this useless debate. We are, in fact, yet another debate on the confidence placed on a maxi amendment to a decree-law, which is the seventh, concerning ILVA. Yesterday evening the Minister for Relations with Parliament put the question of confidence on a maxi amendment entirely replacing the decree-law ILVA, a decree-law that was presented as a network of protection against an avalanche of water and, therefore, useless. In fact, it wants to recover the treasure of Riva to fill the creditors' coffers. The ILVA, for three years and seven decree-laws, goes through the nightmare of rehabilitation plans, police stations and subcommissiaments. But in Taranto everything is dead: the air, the earth and the water. Everything is so dry and painful, that only those who take a walk along the insurmountable enclosures of the ILVA can experience: silence and death. The air you breathe has a penetrating taste of metal. Europe's largest steel mill loses EUR 30 million a month and is abandoned by customers with a debt of EUR 3 billion. She basically failed. On July 26, 2012, the judiciary intervened by arresting the owners of the Ilva, the Riva. The factory was seized. For months, the NOE of Lecce detected disturbing amounts of poisons that the steel mill produced (and produces) without problems. In 20 years the ILVA has had 50 fatal accidents and still rewards, with a 100 euro voucher to the Auchan, the workers of the departments with a low number of accidents. It's hard for a worker to need an incentive to prevent a fatal accident from happening. Maybe it's an encouragement to avoid complaints. Yet, the skilled industrialists thundered with a "Can't kill such a decisive company for the country." Yeah, it's better to kill the entire population and the environment around it and leave the blast furnace pipes on their feet. Steel works produce death, but it doesn't matter: it's the first industry in our country. It goes on like this, months, days and hours, in a total and enduring indifference, where the economic reasons, as always, are placed before the reasons for protection and protection and without any kind of reflection. Death wins over life. The then environmental minister Clini sanctioned the obvious: work and health can live together. On Thursday, February 12 of this year, the mayor of Taranto, Ippazio Stefano, accused together with Riva and their alleged accomplices in the "Selled Environment" trial, offered the city a shameful demonstration of inertia and nullity. With the commissioner to the Bonifiche Vera Corbelli has solemnly signed a new protocol of understanding that will start the Bonifiche. But of the 110 million allocated three years ago by the Government for the reclamations outside the corporate perimeter, the first two will spend on the reclamations of the flowerbeds of the Tamburi district, those for years forbidden to children's games. Over a total of 3.6 hectares, 0.1 percent of the area is reclaimed. The first 30 centimeters of land will be replaced; one million cubic meters of polluted land will be replaced at two euros per cubic meter. One thing strikes me. I am struck by your indifference. Meeting the eyes of the mothers who accompany their children's coffins, not at the playground but at the cemetery, strikes me deeply, as I am struck by this total indifference of yours. That is why I say to you, shame yourselves! I'll tell you as a mother and as a woman. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u52	Madam President, if anyone thinks that the seventh measure really represents a decisive intervention, they are mistaken. This decree-law is only the last extemporaneous measure and we will certainly need to adopt further decree-laws to manage the situation of the ILVA. In view of the newco we can only point out that, despite the amendments tabled in the Commission by the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura Group, there has been a lack of courage to make it a real market company, not having already foreseen the intervention of private individuals. On the contrary, we have chosen a kind of restatation of the steel company, deciding not to predict even the next step, which can only be a real opening to the free market. The decree-law that we believe already announced by the facts is a child of the uncertainty with which the Government has operated that has forced the parliamentary committees to continue and repeated changes regarding the text in force initially presented. Moreover, it is not conceivable that the instrument of the decree-law can be adapted, given the complexity of the matter that directly invests the health, the life of the citizens and the industrial development of our country. And even less appropriate is the choice of trust, a choice that does not allow any debate, any contribution, any improvement, mortifying the role of oppositions and of Parliament all. Moreover, also the provisions contained in the decree-law, issued in a hurry at the beginning of January, have not served to guarantee the full operation of the Taranto company. Too many aspects remain undefined, such as - for example - those relating to the assets and liabilities of ILVA; too many derogations from the existing legislation that make ILVA management continue under an emerging regime. A precise industrial plan, which should include company restructuring, as is the case for any company, has not yet been submitted. As has not yet been presented a precise plan of repatriation of the company. The figures at stake are largely undefined. The most important figure is one billion and 200 million, which should result from the seizure of the Riva family by the judiciary in Milan; an uncertain figure because it is linked to a long, laborious judicial process and which also involves one or more international robberies, considering that the treasure of the Riva is largely abroad. Fintecna's intervention takes us back to the time when the Institute of Industrial Reconstruction was operating and it is desirable that our doubts of an attempt to restatate are now eliminated from the forecast of a rapid exit of the public company controlled by Cassa depositi e loani. It should not be forgotten that this intervention by the State, albeit by means of a subsidiary, requires verification of the eligibility of the rules in relation to the European legislation on State aid. However, it should be stressed that the plan, which goes through the use of newco, must first verify compatibility with European State aid rules. The hope, indeed, is that the presence of the State is limited to a short period that allows it to get out of the state of crisis and start to confront the market, in the absence of which the company is destined to close. The turnover figures demonstrate the collapse suffered by the company in just three years. The first rule that sustains a company is the revenues, since the costs we know them all and are those with which we intend to guarantee, rightly, a job to approximately 15,000 employees and the role of suppliers to the industry of the induced, that revolves around the company and that it has at least 8,000 other employees. The transition to the extraordinary administration must, therefore, be of extreme guarantee for all those who have an interest in the previous management of the company. This is prodromic to every action provided for by the decree-law. Account must be taken of the necessary intervention, also provided for in the decree-law, in the matter of health, the result of an amendment tabled by Forza Italia even if modified, at worst, by the examination of the Commissions. Account must be taken of the great environmental problem which must be avoided from the management of the judiciary and reported, too, in a business management that points to the lasting recovery of the polluted areas. The doubts remain above all - we repeat - for the resources in the field and for the financial cover adopted which - in our opinion - will prove to be seriously insufficient. We repeat: Forza Italia believes that ILVA must become an attractive company on the market and any manifestations of interest by Italian or foreign steel groups must be collected and evaluated as of now. Otherwise, because of the continuing lack of an industrial policy, we risk losing this small niche in the huge world steel market. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cucchetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, Mr Tomaselli and Mr Laniece, who have been genuine citizens in the work that the Industry and Environment Commissions have done on the so-called ILVA Decree, which has been greatly improved with the help - I would like to say this also here - of all the senators and in particular of the opposition representatives, who, apart from the controversy that is perfectly understandable from their point of view, have nevertheless observed a sense of responsibility that is their honour. Of course, I would also like to thank the parliamentary advisers, Mr Giammusso and Mr De Salvo, and the secretariat staff who have devoted many intense hours of work to this decree-law. I'm not gonna argue. I'd like to be on the substance of what we're deciding. The bill of conversion has improved - as I said - the decree-law that gives normative body to the solutions that will now allow the ILVA to resume, invest and make more compatible production with the surrounding environment. With this decree-law the commissioner ex decree ILVA, could ask the extraordinary administration under the law Marzano, without which he could not. To this end, the Decree-Law extends to the new Commissioners the powers, duties and healings of the old Commissioner ex ILVA decree, otherwise it did not work. So, it was an indispensable passageway. The extraordinary administration involves the management, in fact advertising - so it is right the call that, in positive or negative terms, was made to the role of the State - of this large company and no longer, in the immediate, the sale that instead constituted the objective with which the Government had replaced, at the end of spring of 2014, the first commissioner of the ILVA, Enrico Bondi, who had presented an industrial plan - I remember it, because of the industry is always generically and rarely spoken in a concrete way - strongly innovative in the technological field where it replaced, to a certain extent tending to grow, the use of coal with the use of gas. That plan and that approach were considered to be unworkable by the banks, which perhaps did not like Commissioner Bondi so much for what he had done as Commissioner for Parmalat. I say this because the comments made, in that circumstance, by the consultant Roland Berger were then denied by the choices of Italian private steelmakers who had attacked the management of Commissioner Bondi, and then re-proposed those industrial choices on the site of Piombino: I am talking about the pre-reduced. You have to remember these events, because the future comes from the awareness of the past, not putting the dust under the carpet, but understanding what has been done and doing, therefore, treasure also some fatal mistake. We decided to sell the ILVA to the enchantment. The replacement of Bondi with Gnudi - I remind colleagues of Forza Italia - was dictated by the fact that it was said that the State should not take over the ILVA, because it would be taken over by Italian private entrepreneurs or, better still, international. The ArcelorMittal group set foot for the first time in ILVA in May 2014 - I remind everyone a little - and, after six months, did not submit any offers. When he came to the Commission, however, he told us that Ilva was excellent, but the context made it impossible to make a binding offer, so-called binding. Ergo, it is not that the intervention of the state is now dictated by a return to the centralistic and statistical illusions of a season that was, but rather by the concrete need to answer the question about what can be done today to keep the ILVA alive, so as to be able to finance also the environmental recovery with the money that the ILVA will generate. The alternative, in fact, since there is no private purchase offer at this time, is to close the ILVA and start, if ever there will be public money, the reclamation of the industrial site of Taranto at the expense of taxpayers. These are the real alternatives on the carpet. It has been chosen - I say unfortunately with some delay - to arrive at the extraordinary administration: in these six, seven months some hundreds of millions have been lost. You see, I don't know what will be the profit and loss account that will eventually be presented for 2014, but I look at the balance sheet, which has grown heavily on the banks' and suppliers' fronts in the last months of the year: the European market is difficult and the Ilva has been in a situation made even more difficult by the difficulties that I will not be here to recall, because the chronicles we have all read. To give you an idea and remind all of us what the reality is, the ArcelorMittal group, which was called the best and the strongest, in the last three years, including 2014 has lost seven billion dollars in abundance: this is to understand what we talk about when we deal with big steel. The Riva - let us remember that there is a property that has lost control of the ILVA group with the extraordinary administration - will be able to claim that the police agencies have destroyed value; someone in this House has also remembered it, perhaps without associating with the Riva in this judgment. They can say that they left ILVA with two billion net worth, which is now gone. I guess there's gonna be causes. For my part, although I have criticized the choice to have interrupted Bondi's action with an unnecessary attempt to sell (I cannot be accused of being a pro-government Pierino on anything: I try to maintain a certain intellectual autonomy), I remember that already in the last exercise of the Riva management the budget had ended with a significant loss and that the ILVA was already at that time on an inclined plane. I remember ArcelorMittal and I say that with the difficulties that were created, especially in Taranto, a heavy outcome was inevitable. Already the assessments that had been made in the final part of the Bondi management placed in about 100 million the theoretical value of the group, which are nothing compared to the multi-billionaire offers that had been made to the Riva and that they had rejected because they wanted to continue to make the steel industry in Italy. As I recalled, ILVA operated in a difficult market, between recession and zero growth, with the first management lines dismantled by judicial investigations. This was probably right; I am not debating, but in fact there was a problem of not simple solution, with a clientele that has become more irritated and has chosen other suppliers because of the missed deliveries due in part to interventions by the Taranto magistrate, some of which appeared to my eyes fully justified by the environmental disaster and others, such as the famous seizure of the eight billion, not justified both from the point of view of the qualification of the crime - and, as you know, that provision has been reset to the successive degrees of the judgment - and for the material errors on the basis of which it came to that figure, as we did in the Commission's work through the hearings. Now, with the extraordinary administration a new season starts. The Rivas claim it will be the beginning of the end. Perhaps they say that because they fear new troubles: that the extraordinary administration comes from an investigation for bankruptcy or maybe they say it also because they think it as an industrialist. I would remind the House and the Government of this point to stress the importance of the enterprise and the risk associated with the enterprise we have decided to undertake. We were right to make this decision. At this point the extraordinary administration is the solution, but we must know that in Taranto we play our credibility without more protective screens. I want to be optimistic: the extraordinary administration and the decree have created the conditions to make Ilva flow about two billion liquidity. Let us be clear: these are almost all debts, but fortunately they are paid by patient creditors such as the Single Justice Fund, the Deposit and Loan Fund and the same Intesa and Unicredit banks. With these moneys ILVA is put in the conditions of sharing and with the time, not necessarily long, the debts can also be conveniently converted into shares to be put on the market. It happened in Parmalat to the satisfaction of the old creditors. The decree-law meets the requirements of the suppliers to a certain extent, but, if it were not so, it would not have made sense to resort to the extraordinary administration. We always need to know what we're talking about. Otherwise, the alternative would have been failure and no one would have benefited from it, except the vultures that still dream of closing the Taranto steel site and delude themselves to lucrating their small advantages from the reclamation of the site at the expense of the State. I mentioned the Bondi plan and insisted on the innovative industrial profile it had to remember that, from now on, the bet will be on the industrial management of the plant. In this regard, I advised Andrea Guerra to take this load on his shoulders. With the decisive contribution of Guerra, another manager, Massimo Rosini, was chosen, who had worked at the Indesit with Guerra. I want to give him confidence and I wish him many good wishes: those who are now managing ILVA need it, we all need it. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u55	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u56	We greet the students and students of the Institute including Atina, in the province of Frosinone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u57	We proceed to the vote on amendment 1,700 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 1 of 5 January 2015 on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u60	D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share with you the feeling of sadness that has pervaded me after listening to the speech by Senator Di Biagio, who reminded me of Voltaire's 'Candide' (I believe that he and I have a different perception of reality) and when I heard Senator Mucchetti say that this is not a statist operation, but that it is done in a state of necessity because there are no people who intend to buy ILVA. I do not want to go into the question of reclamation, protection and protection of public health, but I would like to remind the bystanders and this House of the few figures that this operation involves for the pockets of Italian taxpayers, because there is no public money, but there is money that is drained, through taxation, from the pockets of our citizens. I see in this operation a perfect paradigm with the great operations of the eighties, one for all that of Gardini-Enimont, that gave life as further degeneration to the famous maxitangente that Cusani distributed to the parties, of the constitutional arc and not, equal to 300 billion of old lire. That was a surplus on the fact that the Italian State had first sold the state chemistry, which was lacking, except then bought it again after seven to eight years, with an increase for the treasury of about 2,500 billion lire, from which came the crest for the parties. Today, with a government that is said to be a reformer, with our President-in-Office of the Council who says he wants to raise the fate of the nation through this phantom and epochal reformist revolution, all we do is repeat the ontological error of statism. We sold to Mr Riva, back in 2003, for EUR 700 million, something that will now cost us EUR 5 billion. It is money that we go to invest in the property of Mr. Riva; so Mr. Riva in the twenty years declares profits for 1.4 billion, then raised to 2.1 billion, that is, lucra three times what he paid, and says he has invested six billion euros, lying, obviously, because in those desolate lands around the ILVA plant in Taranto there is only death and contamination. What do we do without blinking an eye, with the silent tones of Cows and with the commendable notes of Di Biagio? Let us put our hand in the pocket and say: do not worry, here is the State; there are jobs, there is public health to be protected and in the coming years we will remove five billion taxes from the pockets of citizens, which are the exact equivalent of TASI and TARI that we imposed on the Italian population last year. Why do I say that? Because if we leave the context of this consideration of a State that is Leviathan for the citizen and burden him with an unsustainable taxation to be able to use this money to do these operations, well, I believe that Renzi can be compared to Forlani, Rumor, Piccoli, Craxi, and the fact that you give in this decree-law a healing, as Cardinal Richelieu did for his attacks (it provided them with a parchment in which it was said: this man did what he did for the good of France), it is equivalent to saying that according to this decree-law everything that extraordinary management will do will be for the good of Italy. Will you allow me to say: even the possible bribes out of five billion euros that will turn over the next few years, along the lines of what the Enimont-Gardini deal determined? Gentlemen, Senator Mucchetti says you have to keep the past in mind to understand the present. The past is what I'm quoting. It says Cows that the state had to intervene because there is no real chance of selling ILVA. It is true, perhaps, because in a state where there is no certainty of just justice and rapid justice, where there is the organized underworld, where the same State does not pay its suppliers, where there is a taxation that almost 50% for entrepreneurs, you will understand well that our companies are unappetizing, and even more so the companies that produce steel. In fact, having made a policy on the cost of energy fairly demagogic, it is good to say here that Italian steel costs 20-30 percent more, because where steel is produced the first and largest cost of production is energy. So what do we go by cheering about with this decree-law? If the reclamation and the AIA will make it better Guy or Caio? In a serious country the Rivas would be arrested, and all the Riva pronubes would be arrested, all those who forged and lied about reclamation works, including magistrates. In a liberal state this company would sell itself or be closed down. I made a brief check. I'd like my friend De Petris to listen to me, me as a liberal, you as a left-wing woman. I have calculated that there are investments in this area so that a job costs EUR 500,000. I repeat: 500,000 euros. Is that the cost of maintaining a job? Perhaps there are other possibilities for saving money, for example by making a special fund or early retirement for these workers, who certainly have a family to feed and must be protected. But, in order to protect these people, we must invest at the expense of the State and the taxpayer, in the ownership of a private individual, five billion euros. If this is not the most bieco-statistical, if this is not the most bieco-cultural and looting way to use the public money, that is, the taxpayers' money, where can you find other similar examples? Maybe Korea, not Cuba anymore. I don't think Putin in Russia does more than that. This place, I repeat my vote against the confidence of the Government, because with this decree-law we reveal the face of the bluff of Matteo Renzi and his Reformist Government. It is a democratic-Christian government in the sense of the term that is most harmful and most unethical: it is the government of dorotheism, which vivifies the statism and the use of the lever of public money without an industrial policy and without knowing where to go to buffer what is tamponabile and to save the salvageable. Dear friends, colleagues, I would like to close by recalling, in addition to the 2.1 billion that Mr Riva produced (so they privatised profits and now advertise losses), that the unions tell us that, in order to make this plant more efficient, in addition to 1.8 billion for the AIA, it will take 635 million of intervention for asbestos, the adaptation of bridge wagons and the biomonitoring of workers. By 2020, technical and industrial investments are expected to amount to 1.75 billion. Whose factory is this? If it is Mr Riva's, why should we modernise this facility with the money of the citizens? And let's do as Marchionne does in Pomigliano, when he... president. Please conclude, Senator D'Anna. D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). I'm done, Madam President. Allow us a liberal outburst, for once. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's been doing it for three minutes over his time. D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI)). Let us say the things that must be said, without getting lost in the small details. The season of statism must end, the season of public money must end, which is not intended as taxpayers' money, the season must end, which is being renewed, in which assisted capitalism is allowed to privatise profits and to publicize losses. We vote no. [[Applause from Senators Liuzzi and Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u63	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, for the rescue of the Ilva, we are at the seventh decree-law, which we once again convert with confidence, and we are only at first reading. It was not enough forty-five days to arrive at a final text clear and uncritical, due to the deep gaps and the mess that characterized the text fired by the government. Against the effectiveness of the decree in conversion weigh significant strategic errors committed by the Renzi Government, which follow other mistakes committed by the previous Monti and Letta Governments. The first mistake was the explanatory statement that led to the replacement of Commissioner Bondi with Mr Gnudi (Senator Mucchetti said so earlier). Bondi was not good, because, aware of the enormous problems of the company, it was for an innovative industrial plan to relaunch the company, perhaps able to involve Riva. Premier Renzi was instead for another strategy, that of the sale of the company, and for this he provided the appointment of Gnudi, convinced that there was a row of buyers of the company. In fact, someone showed up, operated on a due diligence, but given the troubles he would encounter, he was careful not to carry a feat in his belly with such problems. Result: Keeping the commissioning in bonis for another seven months resulted in the accumulation of losses for several tens of millions and created additional debts for 150 million to contractors, suppliers and induced up to mark debts for about 600 million, as denounced by Confindustria. 11:45 a.m. (Follow Arrigoni). The second mistake was to change, precisely with the decree-law, the specific rule that allowed the collection of the money seized from Riva. At the suggestion of the Greek prosecutor, it has been corrected, but this will result in a delay of at least two months for the release of 1,200 million euros guarded in Switzerland and necessary to the plan of environmental recovery already late; provided that the Swiss judges do not stiffen in the face of schizophrenia and the usual variability of the Italian norms. The third error was the underestimating of the consequences of the start of the extraordinary administration with subsequent declaration of the state of insolvency, with a debt position of 2.9 billion euros. It's crazy, if you think about it, for a society that before the entrance to the tense of the State was useful, that is, when in 2012 the judiciary, finding environmental illicits with a very serious impact on the environment and on the health of the citizens, has put under seizure the implants. All this for responsibility first of the State, then of the Riva, but also - I emphasize - for responsibility and complicity of the territorial authorities Municipality, Province and Region and of the control bodies that have not supervised, ASL first and ARPA Puglia then. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Well, the enormous debts of the company, which ended in the competition procedure, alarmed the creditors, in particular the transporters who, knowing to remain dry mouthed, have started the protest that in the last four weeks has led to the blocking of production and sales, and therefore to worsen the economic state of the company's balance sheet. Instead the haulers had a thousand and a reason to protest. Indeed, Commissioner Gnudi, since he was appointed in June, has ordered their transport services without making payments, abusing their sense of responsibility and now the bill to be paid only for them is salty: EUR 60 million. A real undue expropriation of other people's money, since the company selling the finished Franco-Fabbrica product collected directly from the buyers the cost of the transport without transferring it to the carriers. We are talking about delays in payments of ten months, invoices on which, I stress, carriers have paid VAT at once, not to mention employees' social security contributions and fuel excises. We are talking about a thousand transport companies, half of them in Lombardy, and many others in the North, which risk the failure and dismissal of their employees. Colleagues, ILVA is an important part of the industrial and strategic system of our country, but the League does not approve this decree-law because it continues and strengthens the path of nationalization of this enterprise with the use of public money and seals a new Italian way to socialism, very dangerous for private economic activity. It does not approve of it for several unsatisfying content, for the deep gaps that lead us to say that the measure will not be decisive and because there are not sufficient guarantees for the induced to the suppliers. What don't we share? First of all, the appointment as an extraordinary commissioner of a tern of people instead of a single subject. We do not agree with the non-perpetuality clause, which excludes the criminal or administrative liability of the Extraordinary Commissioner for conduct in the implementation of the Environmental Recovery Plan, and the absurdity is that this non-perpetuality clause is also extended to persons functionally delegated by the Commissioner, who we are not given to know who they are; which opens a wing of discretion. We do not share too many exceptions to ordinary procedures. There are the premises for an intense activity of control of the president of the National Anti-corruption Authority, Canton, recently mobilized against the extension of the motorway concessions contained in the Italy unblock. It is not clear then what there is, with the resolution of the industrial crisis of the Ilva, the environmental rehabilitation and the redevelopment of the old city of Taranto, the cultural and tourist valorization of the Military Arsenale or the completion of the port of Taranto, for which there is already a protocol of understanding. Here we have the confirmation that by Government and majority this decree-law represents more than anything the glowing opportunity to settle territorial issues arising from chronic administrative deficiencies of the past; it happens, at the gates there are the local elections! We do not share the use of 10 million state euros, however initially destined to the prevention of the hydrogeological failure, to finance the albeit important reclamation of the deposit of radioactive waste of the former Cemerad area in the Municipality of Statte, always in the province of Taranto. The initiative, which is to compensate for the lack of territorial authorities, represents a precedent, because until now the State has financed exclusively reclamation interventions in areas already declared Sites of national interest. Therefore, since the entire national territory - and therefore also in the North - there are problematic situations similar to those of Statte, we expect that the State in the future will not deny appropriate resources for the implementation of reclamation interventions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The gaps concern the newco, about which so much has been said and which should rent the branch of the company. Little is known about it: when he will be appointed, who will participate and what he will do remains a mystery. Also for the financial industrial plan that the newco will have to present, initially forgotten but demanded from the North League, we had to ask for more guarantees both for the maintenance of the employment levels and especially for the times of implementation. There are also gaps compared to the oncoematological pole, promised by Renzi with 30 million, to save the children of Taranto. Well, there are only five million and there are general indications. Then, on the guarantees for the induced and the suppliers, our Group has fought in the Commission for the protection of the companies of the induced and the suppliers and the recognition of the credits from them matured for the services and the supplies rendered to the ILVA. The amendments tabled by the rapporteurs for the sector with the agreement of the Government, which were to accept our requests and those made by other groups, are in fact a sin of lack of clarity and, if you will allow me, also of resources. With regard to the extension of the audience of pre-deductible credits - the most important thing - it is not understood whether the services and supplies of all the induced ones are also included and whether among these they are included the credits of the road haulage companies. On the resources, the dowry of which the Government speaks, is of 2 billion but of these I remember that 1,6 billion are officially bound to the implementation of the prescriptions AIA and to the environmental recovery. Of these, EUR 400 million comes from the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, but risks running into Brussels, which could raise the issue of state aid. Instead, coming from Fintecna and from credit lines opened by banks, there remain 400 million for the business activity of which many will have to be engaged for interents of maintenance and restructuring of the plants that are falling apart, AFO 5 (the blast furnace 5) first, and that instead they must march to 100% if we want the company to return to useful. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Then I ask: how much remains to pay the 600 million and perhaps more than debts to suppliers? Let's remember that we are faced with dramatic situations, where some of the small companies have already ceased the activity with consequent loss of the job of the employees, while the medium-sized companies have established the residual vacations of the workers and then access to the social shock absorbers. We are aware that a possible closure of the factory in Taranto, where hot furnaces work, would lead to the closure of all the other ILVA plants on the national territory, with serious repercussions for the industry, for the induced and for the occupation. We are not sure, however, that the government really understood the serious situation. We are approving yet another decree-law save ILVA and the situation is getting worse and worse. This is not the way to intervene: if we want to safeguard the country's industrial heritage we must change logic, abandon the path of welfare interventions and aim for a serious industrial policy on a national scale. Our vote on the decree-law in question will therefore be against, not because - I repeat - we do not care about the solution of the dramatic situation of the Ilva plants throughout the national territory or because we do not worry about the survival of the companies of the induced, but because we do not share the choices of the Government and we are sure that this decree-law will be added to all the others that preceded it, creating only so much volume, under whose weight our steel industry risks being crushed. Premier Renzi, the project that wants to combine the protection of the environment and the enhancement of the enterprise is not serious, the problem is not solved, but on the contrary it will give you so many headaches, many of which - I know - depend on you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u66	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Autonomie-PSI-MAIE Group, in expressing its vote of confidence in the Government, also expresses an explicit vote of approval for this measure, which it considers essential to put the ILVA company back in a serious position of activity. The measures taken are certainly necessary but also suffered, however they are indispensable to guarantee the industrial activity in a strategic sector for the interests of our country. I do not want to spend much time, because, ladies and gentlemen, we have already spent a lot of time and words and we are very late. However, we must remember to all of us what the underlying reasons have led to this situation. The compromises, distractions, omissions on the part of the local authorities with respect to the activity of this company are certainly an element that weighs heavily in the current situation, but also the wrong urban choices weigh. In fact, it is clear that the company, when it was born, was placed in a safe position and that then the urban policies of the local authorities have meant that places of normal civil activity and places of production were so close as to make problems even situations that had been evaluated at the beginning. Obviously, however, the times have changed, so also the sensibilities and results - unfortunately - of an industrial presence that has strongly conditioned the territory and caused serious pathologies. We cannot, however, forget that responsibilities must be equally distributed. In that case there is not only the responsibility of the company, of the Industrial Group that certainly has, also for not having invested in technological innovations that would certainly have secured the plant. Having said that, today we must address the issue of the future. Unfortunately, the past is strongly conditioning the present, but the present must be able to indicate a serious path for the future. Through the approval of this measure we then give the extraordinary administration the tools to be able to bring the company back to a road manager that is able to produce, to do so in a competitive way and to accumulate indispensable wealth in order to proceed to that action of recovery that otherwise would fall on the Italian community; therefore, entrepreneurial and local responsibilities would unfortunately be distributed irrationally on a territory that does not carry the responsibilities and on sectors that instead have made the opportune investments on the future. One point remains to be reiterated. Italy cannot fail to have an appropriate industrial policy in this area, which is strategic. We are a manufacturing country of transformation, so we cannot fail to have the fundamental element for any transformation economy, that is, the steel sector, in particular in the context of the most specialized productions. From this point of view the Government has done well to introduce those elements that allow to bring back to ordinary activity the company, aware of the fact that we have an induced that is suffering strongly and to which must be given a rapid response. We save a large company, but if we do not respond quickly to the expectations of those who are the induced of such an important industrial presence, we kill the small and medium-sized companies that are connected to it. Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the industrial sector of our country needs to be guided in a direction of greater certainty. These certainties are not present today, there is a lack of an effective industrial policy and I believe that within the logic of change of our country and the institutional reforms of our country there can be no lack of particular attention to industrial policy, which then guides any social and democratic development. Without a strong economy, the elements of social tension and the difficulties of overall government will certainly become stronger, and consequently institutional reforms will not be enough to remedy them. In conclusion, I renew the vote of confidence in this Government and the total support for this measure. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u69	STEFANO (Misto-SEL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, today we are called to express our confidence in Decree-Law No 1 of 2015, a new decree, a new call for trust. It is a decree-law to which Prime Minister Renzi has attempted to confer a value and a message full of symbols and meanings. He has again - I say again - recognized Taranto and everything that means Taranto a well-known refrain, the extraordinary requirements of necessity and urgency, but this time seeking a particular emphasis, because in his opinion the decree-law issued was to be a manifest, revolutionary norm, a structural and radical legislative initiative with which the Government inaugurated the activity of the new year. We in the South do not want my colleagues of the League, unfortunately we are more accustomed than others to listen to important initial proclamations to see then betrayed punctually the promises. There is an annual appointment: every year, during the inauguration ceremony of the East Fair in Bari, the Premier of the round praises the South, its resources, its traditions, and firmly points out every year that the recovery of the country passes from the revival of the Mezzogiorno, from the development of the South of Italy. Then the intentions never turn into coherent and concrete actions, and it always looks like the same film. Today we are again in front of the screening of the same film, so much so that today we are called to evaluate the seventh decree-law on the ILVA, which initially had let a little 'of hope shine even in spite of the basic opposition to face, at least as far as I am concerned, a topic as delicate and complex as the issue of the ILVA and Taranto with the rigid scheme of the decree of urgency. Il peana sul progetto Taranto (culture, port, reclamations, hospital, not only ILVA, to say it as tweeted by Matteo Renzi) seemed to grasp the necessary spirit and project the necessary courage to tackle in a strong and effective way the great issues on the carpet, in order to return or begin to return once and for all not only the future, but above all the present to an entire territory and an entire community. So much so that I too, betraying my proverbial caution about the use of social media, had raised the tweet, hoping that it would be the good time. Faced with this epic understanding, it was not so daring to think, and also to be convinced, that the necessary corrections to be made to the decree-law, as wisely pointed out during the numerous and authoritative hearings in the Commission and as reported in many amending contributions (even at the initiative of the Apulia region and of ARPA, that is precisely those who have been engaged in this matter for years), would have been at least heard and possibly welcomed. But it was not so clearly, so much so that today's vote against confidence in this measure, as far as I am concerned, does not give me the slightest embarrassment. In fact, we will vote against trusting a decree-law that will not change the prospective framework and will certainly not improve it. Today we are voting against, not because we are unreasonable owls (I least) or owls who see the glass always half empty; indeed, perhaps because we try to see beyond the present and the immediate, we understand that the timid improvements from the purely economic and financial point of view achieved in the Commission are in no way capable of repaying and helping to recover the damage that we still do not want to see, and that primarily affects the environment and health of that community. How can one think that the planned injection of liquidity or the provision of the conversion into bonds of the sums seized by Riva, assuming that they are successful, are the only pressing needs and urgency for ILVA and Taranto? How can we accept the reckless provision for extending the offer of paediatric cancer prevention in Taranto? 500,000 euros for this year, which may not even be enough to buy just one machine to prevent or diagnose these dramatic pathologies. How do you think you can tolerate the blow of hand against ARPA Puglia, which is facing with a proven and ludicrous staff the fundamental tasks of control, prevention and protection of the environment? Attention, no resources were requested, but a derogation from the constraints of the Stability Pact with the region's own resources to increase the staff needed to operate the ARPA's functions by a few dozen units. And as if that were not enough, it is necessary to add the further offence brought precisely by the provision that provides for non-penalty for the extraordinary Commissioner and for the subjects by these delegates, but that leaves firm the persecubility in charge of the officials and the director of ARPA Puglia, to whom we do not give the tools to carry out their role and their function, but which we then call to pay, civilly and criminally. This safe conduct, whose unconstitutionality is more than obvious, finds no precedent, nor any possible and reasonable shore where to argue his motivation. In the current political context, there is a heavy shadow over such a determination, because it could be the prodrome to possible, future, dangerous and unbearable distortions of law and its certainty, without having to further reiterate how these, on the other hand, are the times when those who administer and govern have the duty of responsibility and the obligation of transparency. This decree-law, on the other hand, that also deals with complex issues, which require efforts, commitments and attention (these extraordinary yeses) of extraordinary gave birth only to this unjustifiable license. So, how can we not complain here about the decision by the Commission not to favour a dialogue with other political forces, its deafness in relation to Taranto's environmental drama? The numerous calls and requests that have been launched by several parties have not been received this time. I would have liked to see shared and declined the essential assumption that the revival of the steel industry in Taranto is synonymous with environmental recovery: without environmental recovery, it vanishes any good idea or healthy intention or just understanding of the future for Taranto and ILVA. I would like to further decline this concept in this House today by saying that Taranto's recovery is only one point: a technological innovation that aims to re-environmentalise the production process. On that, I'm sorry, but the government didn't have to keep stuttering. It was a good time to tell the government's favorite slang. In this respect, I would like to say with great respect that the rapporteur in the Commission, with my own territorial background, as well as the President of the Budget Commission, with my own territorial background, not because of bell-towerism, but because they should know more about the situation ILVA and Taranto had perhaps made me hope for something more. It was not necessary to pass on the deleterious message that environmental rehabilitation is a later step, an ultroneo step towards the management of the productive and financial problem of the Taranto steel industry. Environmental recovery is the solution of the ILVA, it is the future of Taranto. The environment is the fundamental variable, it is the keystone to correctly apply the idea of development and, therefore, this was the moment, this was the right opportunity to predict and demand compliance with the agreements contained in the Integrated Environmental Authorisation (IAA). I am sorry to have to stress on this occasion that we are faced with yet another false step that, probably, will bring us back soon to face yet another ILVA emergency, perhaps with a new decree-law: the eighth. It should be remembered that the ILVA emergency is not only linked to the productive aspect, to the collapse of the induced to it, but is the symbol of health, environment and work. Today, this House is once again mortified in addressing the issue of Taranto and Ilva in such a partial, short-sighted way, further diminished in comparison with the request for a vote of confidence. Taranto and more generally Puglia have already paid a high price for the absence of an industrial policy that has characterized the last twenty years. So far the initiatives of the governments' attempts to compensate an entire community that deserves much more and to give this territory another chance have not exceeded the bar of mediocrity. The diabolical and unbearable game of the tower between the right to work and the right to health had to be permanently broken long ago. Today we miss a new opportunity. Our country cannot do without the steel industry and the tens of thousands of jobs connected with it. It is certainly true, but at the same time it is no longer possible to allow tarantinos to get sick and die of pollution, that the children of that land continue to live with a sword of Damocles on their own health and their own life, that the farms of agri-food or ionic tourism, only to give two examples, continue to be raped in their identities and in their intentions to continue investing in quality and food security. We are well aware of the complexity of the problem under consideration, but that too little - or rather - that almost nothing allowed for the protection of the environment of Taranto and the health of the Tarantos support us in renewing our lack of trust in this Government and this useless decree-law. For these reasons, I declare the Misto-SEL Group's vote against not without - I beg your pardon to the President - bringing back to the memory, not only of myself but also of the House, the concerns, the mobilizations of the workers of the ILVA pipeline who have manifested in Taranto these days, but also in front of the seats of Parliament. They too at this moment go my thought, unable as I was to be able to give them hope and dignity of work. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and the Senators Bruni and Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u72	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that the Government and Parliament have dealt with the ILVA issue. Let's hope it's the good time, the final time. We hope that with the rapid approval of the measure it will be possible to effectively pursue the objective of keeping together the productive activity of the largest European steel industry with a production capacity of 8 million tonnes per year of steel, a third therefore of the national requirements, with the employment continuity of a group that, between direct and indirect, employs altogether more than 16,000 workers, without reducing the environmental rehabilitation of the plant and the city of Taranto. I believe that the work carried out by both Commissions today allows us to approve a measure undoubtedly strengthened compared to the initial text of the decree-law, thanks to a fruitful work carried out, precisely, by the Industry and Environment Commissions and by all the parliamentary groups that have contributed to make this measure more effective and also thanks to the positive contribution of a number of audit subjects, social forces, institutional subjects, local institutions, extraordinary commissioners of the Ilva for the reclamation of the city of Taranto and the magistrates themselves of Milan and Taranto. We were faced with a very difficult and complex measure because the ILVA argument, in fact, must respond to, or should respond to, a number of requirements that are not static, at least in our vision, but absolutely dynamic: the need to protect the right of workers to work, the need to protect the right to the enterprise, the need to protect the right to health of citizens, as well as of course workers, and the right to the protection of the environment. These rights are constitutionally guaranteed and being able to find, in such a difficult situation, the point of fall, the point of balance obviously requires a series of mediations, a series of checks not always easy. Let us also bear in mind that the legislative measure, although dense, full of content and although providing for a whole series of absolutely certain and quantifiable commitments and resources, obviously also takes into account the resources available. I realize that we could have done more and better, but we could have done more and better with other resources. Clearly, parliamentary activity must take account of the reality of facts and things. I would add a very important remark: yesterday, during the debate that preceded the general debate, that is, at the time of the so-called constitutional prejudices, the Opposition Groups focused their intervention mainly on a fundamental issue, that is, on the healings that must be assured, and that this decree assures, to the Commissioners not only in the management of the plant but also in the management of the Bonifications. Long live God we realize that the problem must be addressed not with a purely theoretical attitude, but absolutely with the practical sense that should guide and determine common sense not only in common life but especially in political life and in parliamentary activity. This is a very difficult, complex situation, which is in fact outside the law, as do dozens and dozens of investigations that have affected not only the ILVA but also several prosecutors of the Republic throughout the national territory. A question which, of course, poses serious difficulties for those who have to take decisions and for those who have to take the lead in the direction booth. Clearly, this issue cannot be dealt with in an ordinary way. It is clear that some guarantees had to be guaranteed, and that is the meaning of the measure. We fully agree with the rationale of this legislative initiative precisely because we realize that it represents the precondition of a management, of a governance of the society that can at least free the pilots and directors from the daily concern of having to break the law daily. Obviously all this cannot be guaranteed forever: the moment will come when this extraordinary phase will be part of the management order and then that will be a whole other game. These are the reasons why I call on all my colleagues, even in full and absolute respect for the differences of opinion and the diversity of political positions, not to send misleading messages that outside this House can give a different idea of things, giving rise to emotions or impressions that are not true. These are the main reasons why the People's Area Group (NCD-UDC) will vote firmly on the measure, renewing the confidence of the Government. In repeating our vote in favour, Mr President, I would ask you to be able to submit the full text of my speech to the documents. [[Applause from the Group (AP) (NCD-UDC) and Senators Laniece and Mirabelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u73	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u74	We greet the students and teachers of the Isaac Newton Institute of Camposampiero in the province of Padua, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u77	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I have listened carefully to the speeches made by the various groups and by the various people. I have noticed, for example, that colleagues in the Democratic Party have made a bad use of time, in the sense that they have carefully looked at everyone's speech and there is one reason: the fact that they are obviously ashamed of this decree-law. The few interventions that have been made have focused on the various "misses" given: one million here, two million there, not to mention the billions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There has been talk of some money for the oncology center of Taranto, for example, in the sense that first I will kill you, I will make you sick and then I will also give you the money to cure you. Let's boast! The people who spoke said things, but they were wrong, and then we should correct them. As for the Terni steel works, for example, you do not even know how many people work at ILVA, and yet it says in the Commissioner's document: it says 11,434 workers. Senator Scalia spoke of 12,000, while Senator Valdinosis spoke of 15,000 plus 5,000: none of you have centered the number of ILVA workers, as well as that of the induced workers, who are 2,500. You of the Democratic Party should agree, so as to give at least all the same numbers, trying not to invent figures that are not there. Senator Scalia has always said that Italy is the second country in Europe for apparent consumption of steel: instead it is the third. That's not fair either. Another thing that has been said is that Ilva is Europe's second iron and steel plant: does anyone know what is first? No, you don't, since the first one is ILVA. Someone, however, must have once said that the ILVA is the second and therefore all like monkeys to repeat. The first steel plant in Europe, for those who want to become a culture, is the former kombinat of Magnitogorsk, in the Urals, a steel works wanted by Stalin to overcome the United States in steel production and now out of market, so the first steel plant in Europe is ILVA: you don't know that either. You were shocked, however, when we said that the ILVA paid lavishly for election campaigns: Bersani took 98,000 euros in 2006 and these are data. Forza Italia took a little more: 535,000 euros (only Fitto took 35,000). Instead of scandalizing you, then, go and see the money you took and from whom, because this is important. Another thing that has been said - said Senator Mirabelli - is that with this decree-law there will be certain times: well, until another decree-law comes that you will do because this did not work. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Every time you say it's the last decree-law, but it's like the doctor, where you get to and you're the last one, then someone else comes and the last one becomes him, so there's always one last one coming after the last one. This is the seventh decree-law: why should there not be an eighth? Let's move on, though. Senator Valdinosi said that saving ILVA means restarting Taranto and Italy. First of all, there is 40% unemployment in Taranto, so ILVA has not restarted anything. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Not only that: why didn't you say anything when with the Riva management the employees fell by more than 10,000 units? It is as if the ILVA had already partially closed; with this there would be a second closure. You didn't say anything about that. Moreover, Italy employs 40,000 people in the steel industry out of 30.5 million people employed, 0.13%: it is an absolutely marginal sector, it doesn't count for anything. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It doesn't even count for GDP, because Puglia's GDP is positive, Tarantino's GDP is negative, so it doesn't start again, but it represents a ballast. It's basically throwing a lead lifesaver at a drowning man. You didn't say all these things because you know they're true and you don't have the courage to tell them because you don't know how it ends. I would like to say something else about steel in the world. There is a study made by Siderweb which has contacted more than thirty of the major associations in the sector. The study outlines the horizons of steel by 2030 and photographs the current situation. In today's state, steel production in Europe is marginal and will increasingly be marginal. Let's give a few numbers: Italy produced 27 million tons, China 779, Japan 150, the United States 100. Another point that can be made is: why does the first world power, the United States, whose GDP is 1.7 times that of China, produce less than one seventh of its steel? It is simple: steel serves for new infrastructure, new urban planning. When you've already built what you had to build, steel no longer serves that much. This is one thing that should consider anyone who wants to do a minimum of industrial planning and then we also talk about economic planning because there is also a hole there. Both economically and financially, you have therefore made the wrong accounts or did so on purpose because the ILVA has 2 billion and 900 million liabilities. These 2.9 billion are financial debts with banks, the INPS and, for 600 million, with suppliers. What reason is there to keep a company like this up? Simple: keep her in a coma to be able to explant the organs, so that the banks can take back the money they put in. Keep them in a coma; keep a city hanging from the rope just to pay the debts they have to the banks, that is to save the ass to the banks once again. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] At least say that. Discover the cards, so we can tell you: "bravi; you are consistent." You suck, but you're consistent. But we can only say that you suck. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There was talk of the famous Bondi plan to use gas instead of coal, which was rejected by the markets and not by the new Commissioner's management. If we pay the gas three times as much as we pay in the United States, we cannot think of being competitive on steel. If we pay the workforce more than we pay for it in other nations, we cannot be competitive. The obvious consequence is then that we must not try to be competitive on this type of industry where we would be losers. Indeed, the 2030 scenario foresees that we should compete on manufacturing. It's not steelmaking, you know. The manufacture is of high added value and the steel industry has no high added value. If you do not know what added value is, go and study it because this is also your job and you should do so. [[Comments of Senator Borioli]] You obviously don't know that. Bravo, bragging. You're a myth. Brag. Let's do some math to see the financial crazy. The Greek prosecutor said that there are perhaps two billion available: 1.2 seized in Switzerland plus 800,000,000 frozen to the Riva's brother. But how much money do you have to put in the ILVA and for what? We have to put them in place for the intervention plan and not for the Bonifice. You lie when you talk about Bonifices. The plan of interventions includes, for example, remaking the high oven 5. How much is it? There are discordant numbers on the network. For example, Bondi said that a high oven costs a billion. Some say it can be done with 200 million, someone with 400 and someone with 700. Let's make it 500. Of the two billion, 500 go only for a high oven, which has nothing to do with the reclamation. The rest must go for the plant renovation, because they are dilapidated plants. So, they don't go to the reclamations. What's going on with the reclamations? We heard it: change, a hundred million. Besides, when you talk about reclamations, you forget to say what you want to reclaim. You want to clean up the inside of the plant, which are 15 square kilometers, not the site of national interest (SIN) of Taranto that are 125 square kilometers, nine times so much. So you have to be ashamed: you only want to spend money in the plant and who cares who dies out there. Who cares who cannot even bury the dead, because the ground cannot be moved because it is polluted. You don't say that, but it's another real thing. The real accounts, those of the servant, are those of those who made the evaluations: they are 8 billion, that divided by the number of employees of the ILVA give a figure of approximately 700,000 euros per person, that would be more than enough to accompany these people to work, stopping investing money in a reality in loss. These are the economic accounts you don't want to do. A sensible solution would have been to invest money in professional retraining, because the Society of Nuclear Plant Management (Sogin), said a simple thing about nuclear, namely that the future is disposal and reclamation, referring to all those who are dinosaurs as you are. The large iron and steel plants belong to the past, when there was much to build. If we're gonna do something sensible, we're gonna have to go to the reclamations, we're gonna have to invest in that. The future is there: much more employment, much healthier. Instead, you throw money into the toilet for a dinosaur that is still destined to die, but it will only die when you have dusted all the dust. But there is still another accusation: the pm of Milan have quantified in about seven billion the amount of capital that the Riva have brought abroad. You could have sought one-to-one agreements with tax havens, for example, saying that you didn't care about anyone who had accounts there, but only if the Rivas had them and for what figures. You didn't do it because you have no interest in doing so, because you took money from these people, as the 50,000 interceptions made in the context of the investigation "Environment sold." [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Whoever takes the money shut up. The wiretap shows that everyone was paid to shut up. That's the truth. If you want to get angry, take it out on whoever made these deals on the stand. But I want to end with an appeal. Here we are in limited numbers and unfortunately we cannot make the so much-sighed revolution that we would have wanted to make, because you are as hard as the steel you want to save. The appeal is addressed to the citizens of Taranto. As the protagonist of "Quinto Potenza" said, I'd like you to go to the window, open it and scream: I'm pissed off, and I'm not gonna take it anymore. Do it now, show you're alive. I would like the citizens of Taranto to show that they are not there to be buried by folk like you: because you are real delinquents, you must remember it. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Bencini and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u80	ZIZA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, as usual, slogans come first and then the facts, perhaps the facts. President Renzi on 27 December tweeted: "The project is serious, and is a project for Taranto (culture, port, reclamations and hospitals), not only ILVA". This was how he announced, through social media, the intervention of the Government to save the ILVA of Taranto and the whole area. An intervention emphasized on the basis of important economic contributions. There was talk of billions of euros, except then read in the technical reports of the measure that this rule does not provide for new appropriations, so not even an additional euro compared to those already foreseen. The only resources envisaged were those resulting from the payment in special accounts made to the Extraordinary Commissioner of the amounts seized. The Budget Service noted, however, that the payment in special accounts and the presumed subsequent use of amounts subject to seizure could in future determine the need for public financial intervention if the seizure was even partially revoked at the outcome of the criminal trial. So only with a final sentence of conviction and confiscation of the property could we have the certain availability of these sums. The work done by all of us in the Commissions has enabled us to use these resources for the purpose of starting a bond loan, to guarantee the resources necessary for the continuation of the reclamation activities and to ensure the continuity of the activities of the steel works. In theory we have a great possibility: that of relaunching Taranto city and all the induced ILVA; in practice, instead, we are wasting time with companies induced on the edge of bankruptcy. In fact, many have started using the Integration Fund and see the spectre of ending up in the abyss. Let's continue, rather keep playing with the slogans. We are wasting time, and it is not only my personal position, but it is that of the Puglia Region that on several occasions has had to point out that we are several months late. We have well in mind the words of the economic advisor of President Renzi, Andrea Guerra (perhaps better at selling glasses than at restoring companies in difficulty): for him the profit companies close in twenty years, those of balance sheet in one night. In practice, either the 150 million euros to which the ILVA is entitled arrives immediately, after twenty years of litigation with the State, to be precise with the public company Fintecna, or it will do nothing to wait for the 1,2 billion seized to the Riva family besides those that will add, always in theory, the State with the guarantee fund. In short, to tell the war: either the money comes or it's a disaster. We take note of the good intentions implemented, also with our contribution in the Commissions and with the amendments tabled by Forza Italia, thanks to which we have established a guarantee fund for access to credit towards the companies supplying the induced, the suspension of the debitory records for the creditors, the prededucibility for the credits of the environmental works; measure, the latter, extended also to the haulers. It is certainly important to re-introduce the term for Integrated Environmental Authorisation (IAA) for the safety of radioactive waste in the former Cemerad warehouse. We will not accept and ensure that the resources are allocated to companies and not just remain on paper. We will also ensure that companies supplying a commissary company do not fail because of the state, which commissioner a company, but does not pay the suppliers. We consider that the exclusion of the extraordinary commissioner's criminal or administrative liability is totally contrary to constitutional principles. Therefore, we felt it necessary to ask you to delete part of paragraph 6 of Article 2, but of course we have not been heard: for you the Constitution applies every other day. We regret that our amendment and that of the rapporteurs have not been accepted in order to strengthen the staff of the ARPA and to improve monitoring operations, for the prevention and protection of health in the environmental and health fields. President Renzi, every morning the citizens of Taranto can know beyond the weather also the data of the air quality. After more than 200 samplings to verify the concentration of carcinogenic PAHs, powerful atmospheric pollutants, the findings are a thrill: in 77.5% is found dangerous air, which in practical terms means passive smoke, while in 22.5 percent there is a high concentration corresponding to the exhaust pipe of an old gasoline car: here, this is the air that breathes the inhabitants of Taranto and the neighbouring municipalities. On this too it is necessary to be aware that the socio-sanitary drama that the Taranto citizens live is the same that the citizens of the Municipalities of Statte, Crispiano and Massafra live. That is why we considered it necessary for the CIS to include a programme of subsidies, as highlighted in Amendment 5.14 proposed by us and approved by the Commission. Now we need less catwalks and more money. President Renzi spoke at a press conference of one billion euros; in the decree there are only 300 million, already allocated in 2012 and still very late in employment. The revival of Taranto city passes also for the throw again of the port, for which in the decree is simply mentioned the commissionership. There is no talk of investments, no mention is made of the industrial activity of the port, with the arsenal in the first place, that together with the ILVA has always represented a great economic opportunity for the whole Taranto area. We know well what President Renzi's idea was with the military ships not dismantled in Taranto, but in Piombino. In fact, the Minister of Defence stated a few months ago: We made a deal: we have a very large number of military ships to dispose of. Do we really want to definitively sanction the death of the Tarantine industry? If that's the case, then let's celebrate her funeral. If instead you want to try to revive this martyred area, we must start from here, from the port, with the engagement of all, especially of those who have occupied and still occupies extensively the most beautiful and suggestive places of the city of Taranto, Finmeccanica and Ministry of Defense on all. It is necessary to keep in mind what the ILVA in Taranto is, not just a company, but the steel company that manages the most important production center in Europe, representing a fundamental component of the entire steel industry in our country. If the ILVA of Taranto stops, say the operators of the field, the repercussions downstream will be dramatic, starting from the connected plants of Genoa and Novi Ligure, destined also to the block of the activities. We must remember, which Federacciai and Confindustria have often done in these months, that the pole of Taranto has a production capacity of approximately 10 million tons annually, equal to more than 40 percent of the national production of steel. The replacement costs on the trade balance and the extra costs of supplying can be estimated between 4,5 and 7 billion euros per year (about half a point of GDP). The costs for the community (integration fund, taxes and social security contributions) will be almost EUR 1 billion per year. It should be remembered that to date ILVA employs about 16,000 people directly, plus thousands of other employees if local and national inputs are taken into account. The government must tell us what it wants to do with the steel mill, even if what is missing is above all the strategy of a country, more attentive to tweets and little to reality. Today, President Renzi, we are at the seventh decree-law; in order to approve it he decided to arm himself with confidence, yet another confidence, that confidence that all of us and the citizens of Taranto lack to believe it. President Renzi, let us remember your words: If Europe wants to prevent the children of Taranto from being saved, it has lost its way home. And by the way, I am more loyal to the children of Taranto than I am to the abstruse quills of Europe. Too bad, President Renzi, had a great opportunity during the European semester, but not a gesture in this regard, not a strong act that could help Taranto, his workers and his companies; not a statement in defence of the Taranto citizens and especially of the children, those children that she said she wanted to save, but was too busy tweeting electoral ads, phrases with effect and considerations that they never find followed. Now if you will allow us, President Renzi, retweet our negative vote and write this: If a man is not willing to take risks for his own ideas, or they are worth nothing or he is not a man. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u83	VACCARI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, allow me first of all to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Tomaselli and Mr Laniece, as well as for the Government, Mr De Vincenti and the Presidents of the Commission. It was also thanks to them, to the work of coordination and synthesis that they have carried out, recognized by all political forces, that today this Assembly can approve a sure positive measure, for one of the most important environmental and social emergencies in the country, that for this reason could have seen its conclusion in the right times, without resorting to the vote of confidence. The decree-law to our examination is part of a normative and administrative path that dates back to the last legislature and that has seen as the last act the decree-law n. 61 of 2013, with which a radical transformation of the management of the plant of the Ilva of Taranto has been started. This decree-law established the extraordinary commissioning of industrial plants of national strategic interest, whose production activities had caused serious and significant dangers, from the environment to health, due to the non-compliance with the provisions of the Integrated Environmental Authorisation. Already from this first reconstruction we can understand the complexity of this tormented story, on which almost three years ago the governments and the parliamentary classrooms themselves that have succeeded have worked in pursuing an ambitious and complex goal at the same time, but not at all taken for granted, that to tighten in a virtuous pact the productive continuity of the largest steel complex not only Italian, but European, with the employment continuity of an industrial group that, between direct and induced, occupies more than 16,000 employees and the necessity of an environmental recovery and a sustainable relaunch of the new industrial strategies in this field. The partial results achieved over the last two years in pursuing these goals and keeping that virtuous pact alive clearly tell us that much remains to be done. Numerous judicial events separate us and have accompanied the path put in place by the Government, the last of which has declared the ILVA plant of national strategic interest and has dictated specific measures to guarantee the continuity of production and the marketing of the products, even those realized before. This would suffice to recall the numerous decree-laws, which represent a uniform in the legislative and industrial history of the post-war period of our country, to give a sign of the exceptionality of the story and highlight its extraordinary gravity: the drama of a city that paid a very high tribute to industrial choices of another era, certainly not without responsibility that we can well identify. But here we are not in a courtroom; the judiciary of Milan and Taranto have already provided and acted to protect public health and workers, but we are in a Parliament that in a crucial passage not only in the life of the ILVA plant in Taranto, but for the entire industrial history of our country, chooses the path of the challenge with balance, responsibility and concreteness. I believe, like the rapporteur, Mr Tomaselli, that this challenge must not only be supported, but that Government and Parliament must ensure that this challenge is won, not only to save the factory, the jobs, a city, but a decisive part of our country's industrial system and our ability to continue to be a great manufacturing country, which competes in the world for its ability to do. What we are going to vote for is a measure that therefore does not have the desire to represent the panacea of all the evils accumulated in so many decades of bad industrial and environmental management of that territory, but to give concrete answers to that serious productive, environmental and health situation. More than 300 amendments have been evaluated on the table of the Environment and Industry Commissions until yesterday, with the aim of integrating and improving the basic text issued by the Council of Ministers, after a wide listening path carried out in recent months, and with a responsible behaviour of most political forces, some of which, strangely here in the House, have then chosen the way of shouts and insults to hide the black beast's collaboration. I am thinking of issues relating to the strengthening of public controls on plant emissions and the monitoring of progress. I am thinking of the reclamation of the Taranto environment, which has confirmed certainties in the time of implementation, which will certainly have to be monitored and guarded by Parliament. I am thinking of the maximum implementation time of the interventions foreseen by the AIA, which remain fixed in August 2016, without the fear of further referrals, with an Environmental Plan that will be implemented in full by receiving also the novelties introduced by the Commissions. It will therefore be essential to ensure the timely monitoring and monitoring of both the implementation of the actions and the emissions of the plants in operation. Alongside this, it is important to integrate in order to guarantee support also in terms of resources to the Apulian Region, to ensure adequate levels of protection of public health and finally to start the realization of a more effective fight against cancers, also in terms of prevention and onco-haematocologic pediatric treatment of the Province of Taranto, which finds in this decree the resources to start the new hospital department for this purpose. Among the requests accepted in the Commissions I would like to mention the presentation of a six-monthly report by the Minister of the Environment to the Chambers on the implementation of the environmental plan. I wonder: they are all good straws not to see the bad beam or even the beam, further strengthened in the implementation phase, has its objective solidity. I am convinced that this measure, precisely the beam, can really represent that turn so long awaited, because it is based on decisive and qualifying pillars: on the one hand, the productive and occupational continuity of the entire ILVA group, beginning with the plant in Taranto and then of the plants spread throughout the country. Today this objective, made weak by the liquidity crisis and the production decline of the last two years, is again possible thanks to a substantial injection of financial resources to the company guaranteed by the release of the funds Fintecna, made faster by the changes we have made to the decree-law and the availability of ordinary credit lines for about 260 million euros, granted by the banks thanks to the initiative of the new commissioners and to the solicitations of the Government. 12:49 a.m. (Follow VACCARI). On the other hand, the environmental rehabilitation of the Taranto plant: an objective that today is guaranteed with greater certainty by the norm inserted in the decree-law with which the procedure is expressed more stringently in order to make available to the extraordinary administration the resources already seized to Riva by the Milan Public Prosecutor, equal to 1.2 billion euros, to which could be added another 700 million euros, at the moment also blocked by the same Public Prosecutor. True money, despite the mystifications that have also been made here in this House. The decree-law is modified in order to make this path more linear and rapid, overcoming also objections of a judicial nature that have also manifested themselves, through the issuance of bonds to guarantee the use of these important resources. I have heard in a number of speeches that there would be a lack of resources in this measure. The problem, as you can see, is not in these terms, but in being able to spend and spend well the resources that already exist and that are mainly private and only partially public. To those who have spoken of nationalization I remind that instead the reverse process will start, because these first pillars that I have cited, besides being strongly interlinked between them, are completely functional to the future perspective of cession or thick of the ILVA to a newco, that will be able to see the light downstream of the initiative promoted by the Government already in the decree unblocks Italy and that will be strengthened in the decree-law on development and investments, that precisely for ILVA will probably find its first concrete application. With this in mind, the work of the Commissions has enabled the appropriate inclusion of a rule by which the Extraordinary Commissioner will require the renter or buyer potential to submit an industrial and financial plan in which to indicate investments, financial resources and strategic objectives. Finally, the protection of the induced. On the most sensitive issue from the social point of view in the text, which already provided for a derogation from the rules of revoking action for commitments entered into under the company's commissioning regime, important additions have been defined. The first, on the prededucibility of the credits of the small and medium-sized enterprises; the second, making available 35 million euros of the Central Guarantee Fund for the liquidity of the small and medium-sized enterprises, with which a substantial mass of credit can be activated for the suppliers of the ILVA; the third, in favor of the small and medium-sized enterprises and the enterprises of the road haulage, to which the terms for the payments of the erial taxes until 15 September 2015 will be suspended, as well as the executive and precautionary procedures relative to such taxes. We are aware that the appeal is missing the question of strengthening the structure of the controls of the staff of ARPA Puglia. For the Democratic Party there is a commitment to integrate it into a next measure, given the unanimous agreement of all the Groups and the Government. Even for these figures and for these choices of industrial and environmental policy there is no one who should be ashamed, neither in Parliament nor in the Government. It will be history and not some political force pro tempore to judge the results of our choices. The effort that the Democratic Party has made has not been so focused on detail, nor on an easy and sterile rhetoric, nor - and I address my colleague, Mr Martelli - to point the finger at the figures. And then, from what pulpit comes the sermon, Martelli! You have among your ranks the political world champion of lies, so we certainly do not accept lessons from you. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senators Bottici and Martelli]] The effort that the Democratic Party has made has been to keep together the complexity of the proposed solutions (productive re-launch, induced and environmental recovery) helping to improve this measure not only to restore hope to the workers and businesses of the ILVA induced, but also to restore the right to the future to the citizens of Taranto and the Apulian municipalities. Today, with the approval of this decree, which the Democratic Party will vote firmly, it wants with strength and determination to give back to everyone certainties for the future, making available a box of tools richer and more modern, able not only to repair and repair the failures caused by a failed past, but also to build a sustainable and lasting future, together with workers, businesses, institutions and citizens of Taranto and Apulia. That's what we'd like to talk about tomorrow. It is not the interests of the shop that are also agitated in this House for a few more lines, visualization or posts on social networks, but of a Government and a Parliament that have taken their share of responsibility to protect and promote a productive sector strategic for the interests of the country. A government and a parliament that also through these choices indicate in the environment not only the main set of common goods to be protected, valued and delivered to posterity, but as an important opportunity to re-set a new model of sustainable and sustainable development, based on the culture of renewable resources. These are the difficult and complex choices to which we are called, because this is the figure of the European and global challenge to which our country is called to get out of the crisis. From this challenge the Democratic Party, once again, will not back down. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u84	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u85	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,700 (correct text), presented by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 1 of 5 January 2015 on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. He asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senator Caleo, for very serious personal reasons. [[Applause]] I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal of this senator. (The foretold senator responds to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Endrizzi is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Endrizzi. PEGORER, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Augello, Azzorini Ross Berger, Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, De Biasi, Del Barba, Di Biagio, Dirincich, Collina, Conte, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, D'Ascola, De Biasi, De Biasi, Del Barba, Di Biagio, Dirincich, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Faviolo, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippin, Fincchiaro, Fissoni, Formigoni, Fornaro, Fravezzi Gatti, Gentile, Fabbri, Fabbariolo, Favero, Favero, Favero, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Ginetti, Lombards, Lombards, Lombards, Lombards, Lombards, Lombards, Lombards, Lombards, Lombard, Lombard, Lombards, Lombards, Lombards, Lombards, Lombards, Lombards, Lombards, Lombards, Lombards, Lombards, Lombards, Lombards, Lombards, Lombards, Lombards, There are no senators: Airola, Alicata, Amidei, Amoruso, Arrigoni Barani, Barozzino, Bellot, Bencini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Blundo, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruno, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Campanella, Candiani, Cappelletti, Caridi, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolilino, Comaroli, Consiglio, Conti, Cotti, Crimi, Crosio D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, D'Anna, De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pin, De Siano, Donno Endrizzi Fasano, Fattori, Fazzoni, Ferrara Mario, Floris, Fucksia Gaetti, Gambaro, Gasparri, Gibino, Giro, Giro, Girotto Iurotto Iurla, Donero, Donero Liuro, Livio, Lyro, Lyro, Lyro, Livio, Livio, Marinro, Lombardi, Marino, Lombardizzo, Lombardi, Lombardi, Marino, Manto, Mandolini, Mandolini, Lombardi, Mandolini, Mandili. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,700 (correct text), entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 1 of 5 January 2015 on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 266 Senators voting 265 Majority 133 Favorable 151 Contrari 114]] The Senate approves. All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 1 are therefore precluded or absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u88	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am glad that you are the chair at the moment, because you are perhaps the most qualified person to listen to the problem I am about to raise, a problem - colleagues - which represents the long wave of the misfortune of Mafia Capitale. Please, then, please pay attention. As you know, Mafia Capital has involved the entire sector of cooperatives and welfare centres that provide social services and, therefore, those who are paying at this time the Commissariat of Cooperatives are the last and the weakest of our society. Specifically, I am referring to the events concerning the Roman reception centre Namasté, run by the cooperative Eriches 29 June, which was involved in the scandal in Buzzi. This cooperative manages this reception centre, where 13 asylum-seekers and refugees were welcomed. Among other things, the operators, who are precarious workers, do not have a salary, because unfortunately, since the cooperative is a commissioner, there is a lack of funding. These 13 refugees had major problems and staged a peaceful protest, followed by their expulsion. Now, therefore, they are sleeping on the street, even though they have rights enshrined in the Constitution. The prefecture was alerted, the same one that then signs contracts to these cooperatives together with the administrations. The brilliant idea was to solve the problem by removing guests from the facility, which no longer has resources, violating more rights, rules and laws. Moreover, there is a moral weight that this political class has, being the administrators involved bipartisan, being the mayor Marino, who is trying to resolve this situation, an exponent of the PD. I ask that we make ourselves and above all that you take charge of this shame and that the prefect reinstate these refugees. But not only that. I ask that the problem of cooperatives be dealt with, because there is not only the problem of Namasté. There are dozens of situations of this type: from the bar of RAI, run by cooperatives of Buzzi and Carminati, to other cooperatives and companies that provide services, to those who ran the Roma camps. Among other things, they demagogically also "magnate" us, first politically and then economically with bribes: the same forces that propaganda on the one hand, then managed the money on the other. I really ask that this issue be resolved, because for now the only ones who have dealt with it are a trade unionist of the USB, Aboubakar Soumahoro, and the parish of "San Gabriel." Now, Italy has failed, we know. We need a citizenship income, and we know that. But it also serves that they do not pay the weakest, who are always the same ones to pay: precarious workers or those who are entitled to levels of care that are no longer guaranteed. Therefore, in order to avoid the total collapse in the face of which we are, in Rome but also in Italy, I ask that there really be a commitment on this issue from the Presidency and from all the political parties involved. [[Applause from Senator Marton.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u89	Today I will have the opportunity to meet Mayor Marino, to whom I will be able to represent this problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u92	ZIN (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am speaking with reference to weak people. I call for the floor in this House to give voice to our fellow countrymen living abroad and to bring back a problem of the many who afflict the Italian community of South America, in particular the Argentine one. I am referring to the system of payment of Italian pensions abroad which suffers from the phenomenon of so-called asymmetric weighing. Italian pensions in euros, which amount to about 12 million per month (32,000 pensioners per 357 euros of average pension), continue to be paid in Argentine pesos at an exchange rate set by the Argentine Government equal to about 40 percent less than the real market price. This is an intolerable situation, Mr President, which is economically damaging to our fellow countrymen. In order to collect the appeals of the approximately 32,000 fellow citizens, Italian pensioners living in South America, in particular in Argentina, who suffer this grave injustice and following closely the provisions of Law No 32 of 18 January 1983 I have worked to ask for prompt intervention from the competent authorities first to the Argentine ones, speaking with the highest offices of the State, such as the Vice President of the Argentine Republic, the Minister of Labour, the Director General of AFIP, the Governor of the province of Buenos Aires and so on. Among the Italian authorities, I recall the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, the President of the Senate's Labour and Social Security Commission and the President of the INPS. Everyone agrees with the need and urgency for action by the competent Italian and Argentine authorities to defend the interests of Italian pensioners who see their pensions reduced, but in fact no one - and I say no one - seems to want to take the problem seriously. An energetic policy of support for our weaker compatriots, therefore, is imperative. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall end my speech by saying that I am fully aware that this battle is being waged on a difficult ground, but those who do not force and strongly press for a solution will not be able to escape the responsibilities of those who have provoked this intolerable injustice, which damages our countrymen economically and morally.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-02-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-395.ana.u93	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.47 p.m.
