ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 17.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 8 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u3	The next item is: ==References====External links==* Official website After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have ten minutes available. I call the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go back to the well-known reconstruction of the events that have bloodied Paris since Wednesday morning, 7 January, with the break-in at the headquarters of Charlie Hebdo at the drafting meeting, on the evening of 9 January, with the dramatic conclusion of the seizure of the kosher supermarket in the Porte de Vincennes district; Three days of horror that France and Europe will not forget. The government also takes this opportunity to join in the pain of the families of the victims of the terrorist attack, the designers, the police, the hostages, all the victims of this ignoble act of terror. [[Applause]] Yesterday's Republican march - millions of Parisians and government leaders from many countries - showed, I believe, with strong solemnity, what our response will be: unity and determination in defending our security and confirming the pillars of our freedom. I will focus on the Italian Government's assessments and action lines in the face of this threat. Minister Alfano, explaining to the House the immediate measures (which have already been translated into operational decisions by the security forces), spoke of what the Government is doing to protect institutions, places of worship, foreign representations, other sensitive objectives. Yesterday, in Paris, the European Interior Ministers, with the representatives of the United States, Canada and the European Union, approved a joint declaration to strengthen, especially in terms of the exchange of information, the still too fragile concept of common European security; on Monday in Brussels we will discuss it at a meeting of Foreign Ministers, which will have on the agenda the fight against terrorism. Some regulatory measures will be adopted. I am talking about targeted and incisive actions, not general references to special laws. In particular, I am referring, at European level, to the understanding on passenger data of airlines, on which the European Parliament's green light is urgent. With regard to Schengen, which has been discussed these days, it must be clear that no European Government is talking about suspending the Schengen system or re-establishing controls at the borders of the countries of the Union. Sacrificing our freedom of movement, for which we have worked and fought for decades, would be an unacceptable price to pay for terrorism and its initiative. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, LN-Aut, GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI), SCPI, Misto-SEL and Senator Bell.]] The debate, which has been going on for a few months, is, if anything, about the possibility of consulting the so-called Schengen Information System (SIS) at the time of the crossing of the external border of the Union by some residents of countries of the European Union. Therefore, there is no question of suspending Schengen, of restoring borders between the countries of the Union; possibly we are discussing how to use the information system between the different countries of the Union for those who want to leave the external border of the Union itself. Internally, when I talk about regulatory measures, I am referring to the rule - which Minister Alfano has also mentioned here - which provides for new instruments to prevent and suppress the activity of so-called foreign fighters. This is a phenomenon that is not entirely new, which has precedents, for example also from Italy to Afghanistan or Bosnia, which have occurred in recent years and whose dimension, speaking of people from our country, as now known, according to information from our Security Services, is around 50 units. But the fact that there are precedents and the apparent low numbers do not allow us to underestimate anything. Paris has demonstrated the danger of these terrorists, trained in the use of weapons and war logics, even in very small numbers. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the threat we face is not only countered by more stringent security and internal prevention measures. First of all, we need to learn about this threat and we need to discuss and verify the international strategy put in place to combat it. One fact is certain: the threat of Islamic terrorism has become worse in different forms and in different theaters of crisis: from the Northern Regions of Nigeria, where Boko Haram - you know that "Boko Haram" literally means "Western education is sin" - pushes to the atrocious and cowardly use of unwitting girls for their own attacks. Hence, from Nigeria to Yemen, from Somalia to Pakistan to many other countries: different acronyms, including the surviving Al Qaeda network, united by an attempt to kidnap a religion that has 1.6 billion faithful, and united in the assault on the West but also the governments of the major Islamic countries and the majority of Islamic believers. On two theaters I want in particular to draw the attention of the Senate. The first is that of the so-called caliphate, the Daesh: a particular threat, on which I believe we must focus our attention because it is a completely new threat. It is terrorism that is becoming a state, that controls a very large territory, that possesses resources, because it has taken over bank deposits, because it does illegal smuggling of oil, because it acquires resources through the sale of even cultural goods. It is at the same time an incubator and magnet of other terrorism, also because of its symbolic strength, capable of recruiting, through the networks, both foreign fighters and so-called lone wolves. This Daesh affirmed itself in the stall of the Syrian crisis and in the vacuum created in Iraq for the dissolution of the pre-existing structures, replaced, after military intervention, by a government - I am not speaking of the current but of the previous Iraqi Government - characterized by sectarian exclusion of both Sunni communities and Kurdish minorities. Today there is a coalition of more than 60 leading American countries engaged in the fight against Daesh; it has blocked its expansion, it has achieved some important successes on the ground: in Kobane, in that mountain of Sinjar, which we dealt a lot a few months ago because it had become a trap for the genocide of an entire community, the Yazida community, which at that time suffered thousands and thousands of losses, especially of women. Today a road has been opened to allow us to get out of that trap. The battle against the caliphate will be long and sees Italy directly engaged, on the basis of UN Security Council Resolution 2170, first of all in the supply of weapons and trainers, both to Kurdish fighters and to Iraqi forces. As you know, we have supplied light weapons, anti-tank systems; we will reach 290 trainers in the Erbil military base, who cooperate with forces on the ground that counter Daesh militias. On the other hand, we are engaged with several recon missions based in Kuwait, through the use of our Tornados and our Predators. The Italian Government is also a political commitment that we are developing towards the Government of Baghdad to encourage - and I did so personally on a visit last December 23 - the new Iraqi Government on a line of greater inclusion both towards the Kurds and towards the Sunnis. At the same time, we are engaged in the Syrian theatre to support the United Nations line that they are trying, as you know, also on the basis of a proposal that has come from Italy, to get a freeze on the situation in Aleppo that could be a model that can be replicated in other areas of Syria. Finally, we are committed to humanitarian matters. Since August, with regard to the Iraqis and refugees fleeing from the war fronts in Kurdistan, Italy has been committed to supporting the Christian minorities, uprooted from the Nineveh Plain and in support of the Yazide communities, in particular the Yazide women, kidnapped, raped and put in difficulty in returning to their own traditional communities, who need our help. From humanitarian aid we then move on to economic cooperation which, as always, must follow, because it is the second step that allows these countries, in positive cases, in which the context makes it possible, to recover. Then there is a second theater that I think should be at the heart of our concerns. Of course, there is not a scale of priorities, because all the outbreaks of terrorism and terrorist extremism are worrying, but of course, for Italy, I think we should focus attention on the threat of Daesh and the Libyan theatre. Here, the intervention of 2011, to which a very weak Italy ended up adding, led to the sacrosanct fall of Gaddafi, but it also created a vacuum and the progressive disintegration of the already fragile structures of the Libyan State. Today a huge territory like that of Libya has become a free port, not by chance in only 2014 - to quote definitive data - Italy has recorded 826 landings for a total of 141,000 migrants coming only from Libya. Italy cannot be resigned - and we will not resign - to the prospect of a Libya divided into two or more parts in war between them. That would be an unacceptable threat just a stone's throw from our house. The contagion of terrorism, which is already serious, although for now, fortunately, confined to some cities like Derna and some other parts of southern Libya, would become unstoppable. Italy is therefore working on a political, informative and even logistical level, with the attempt of the UN Special Envoy to set up this week - if I hope so - a first meeting of national reconciliation to be held in Geneva. If this process of national reconciliation starts under UN flags, the Government will propose to Parliament that it also be supported by monitoring and peace keeping. So in the face of an unprecedented and complex challenge like the one before us, Italy must act with determination and without repeating old mistakes. The elimination of dictators is sacrosanct, but every military intervention must pose the problem of its consequences, without ignoring the risk that the power gaps are filled with terrorist forces and without escaping the difficult task of maintaining or rebuilding the state capacity of the countries in which it intervenes. Globalisation has also changed the war by making it asymmetrical, and with this new reality we must, I believe, deal with it. Above all, we must not make new mistakes. We must not confuse Islam and terrorism and perhaps react not against terrorists but against Muslims. This would not only be a mistake, but a very dangerous mistake. Whether it is a mistake is enough to prove it the perhaps more dramatic picture of the terrorist attack in Paris, which we have all seen, in which the French-Algerian Islamic terrorist cold-kills the Franco-Algerian policeman, Ahmed Merabet, of Islamic origin and is not the first time, even in the last attempt of Toulouse there were among the Muslim police victims of the French security forces. Just as Muslims were the Taliban of the horrendous massacre of children in Pakistan a few weeks ago, the young Malala, Nobel laureate who fights them, is Muslim. We must be aware of this reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]] It is a confrontation within the Muslim community between terrorist extremism and the majority of believers and governments. Not realizing this is not only wrong, but even dangerous - I said - because it prevents us from working with indispensable allies. I quote for all the speech he made last week at the University of al-Azhar (which is the most important center for Sunni religion) the Egyptian president al-Sisi: a speech in which he asked Sunni Islam - he did so in front of a audience of scholars and imam - a revolution in the way of living and teaching religion, denouncing the risk that a certain way of living and teaching the Islamic religion could harm and compromise the entire Muslim community. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to confirm to Parliament that the Government is making every effort to ensure the security of our country. The context in which we find ourselves must of course arouse concern, not because of specific indications (which, as has often been repeated in these days, do not appear at the moment), but because of the general dimension of the threat in which we find ourselves, to which the Daesh, as you know, often unites symbolic references also to our country, such as that gloomy black flag on the obelisk of St. Peter in the cover of the official magazine of the so-called caliphate. To terror and barbarism we must react without fear and without sacrificing the cornerstones of our freedoms. Above all, we must react together: with the unity of our institutions, with the unity of all the Italian people. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE), LN-Aut, SCPI and Mixed-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u5	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Government. Senator Maran is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u6	Mr Minister, I agree with your words of condolence and I say at once that we will support the effort you have outlined. We will support him without if and without but: we must intervene forcefully against the Daesh, the so-called Islamic caliphate, because terrorism between Syria and Iraq has become a state. We need to work here to protect our citizens and do everything - every effort - to ensure security in our country. We must also avoid confusion between terrorists and Islam, and we must not confuse this type of threat with the phenomenon of immigration. He also said well: security measures are not enough. The execution in Paris of the journalists of Charlie Hebdo and the police in service to protect them is not the result of France's failures in assimilating two generations of Muslim immigrants from the former colonies. This execution has nothing to do with France's military role against the Islamic State in the Middle East, nor with America's invasion of Iraq. Even less must the attack be understood and explained as the reaction to the lack of respect for religion by irresponsible cartoons. It is only the last of the blows struck by an ideology that has been trying for decades to gain power through terror. It is the same ideology that forced Salman Rushdie to hide for a decade (condemned to death for writing a novel), who then killed his Japanese translator and who tried to kill the Italian one and his Norwegian publisher. It is the same ideology that killed 3,000 people in the United States on September 11, 2001 and massacred Theo Van Gogh in the streets of Amsterdam in 2004 for making a film. It is the same ideology that has given mass rapes and massacres to the cities and deserts of Syria and Iraq; that has massacred 132 children and 13 adults in a school in Peshawar last month and that regularly kills so many Nigerians, especially the younger ones, that no one pays more attention to them. We, perhaps more than others, should know well what we are dealing with and that ideology can be the driving force behind human actions. Between 1969 and 1985, extreme-right and extreme-left terrorism produced 428 deaths and hundreds of wounded in Italy. Over 12,000 political attacks were recorded in those years. This is the most important figure in Western Europe. It is not a phenomenon that has manifested itself only in our country, but only in Italy has been so long-lived and rooted. The Red Brigades have enjoyed approval and have had numerous admirers even in the educated environments. I am not just talking about bad teachers, but about dozens of anonymous citizens: students, professors of every order and grade, employees, housewives, unemployed and pensioners, politicians. In all social categories it is possible, at least once, to come across an interlocutor who, referring to the Red Brigades, said: It's okay, but it's okay. This initial formula is the prelude to phrases and reasonings that do not change over time: "Killing is wrong, but you have to go into a particular context." "I'm sorry for the families of the victims, but D'Antona and Biagi have massacred thousands of workers with their labour market reforms." But we must not forget that there are a lot of scoundrels in Parliament. In Italy there are red Brigades and red Brigades, but in Italy there are red Brigades. The phrase "red Brigades," however, helps to understand the success and longevity of red terrorism in our country. There is an education to violence that is difficult to identify because it creeps into the elementary relationships of everyday life, then as today. Education violence is also made up of summary judgements, aggressive discourses and something that spells out our everyday life. Revolutionary education is, in everything and for everything, an education to violence. A young extremist can kill only after learning that killing is lawful and proper, through a pedagogy of intolerance. The Red Brigades were and are, above all, an ideological phenomenon, and even today ideology, a schismatic ideology of death, is the determining element that motivates jihadist terrorism. Obviously, this psychological system does not act in the void. The birth of the Red Brigades takes place in an era of Italian history in which the processes of modernization of the country are so abrupt that it changes its face in a few years, forcing individuals to a rapid "cultural conversion." There is a tension between the rapidity with which society changes and the slowness with which it adapts itself, which creates a willingness to accept radical solutions against the existing order. As it happens today in the Islamic world. Moreover, as is the case today in the Islamic world, the experience of the Red Brigades does not rain from the sky or spring from nothing but is part of a revolutionary tradition very specific. All the interpretation categories used by the Red Brigades are obtained, in bulk, from the works of Marx and Lenin. But what needs to be highlighted in our experience is precisely this. It was the commitment and effort of the parties and institutions and, above all, the reactions of the Italian society that continued to live, act and operate without entering into the state of emergency syndrome, which showed an exceptional ability to hold. It was these reactions that succeeded in neutralizing the discourse carried out by terrorism through the strengthening of what has been called the "institutional consensus" towards the State. And from this point of view a contribution of enormous importance must be, of course, recognized to the Communist Party that with its unconditional position in favour of the Republican State and its institutions, it was able then to channel vast sectors of what were called the "working masses" on the tracks of pro-system support. In fact, Guido Rossa was the first victim of the campaign of terror against the reformist wing of the political lineup. Today we are at the same point. Today the most credible manifestation of an Islam that wants to live and live together in Europe, passes through an explicit, passionate and sincere denunciation not only of the violence, but of the intolerance and contempt of the freedom of others; through an explicit and proclaimed civil and religious ostracism against the fanaticism that arm the militias and lone wolves. That is why it is important, as you said, Minister, that a general such as al-Sisi, President of Egypt, appealed to the University of Cairo for a "religious revolution," calling Islam a source of anxiety, danger, death and destruction for the rest of the world. I am not referring to the "religion" - said al-Sisi - "well to the ideology" - the body of texts and ideas that we have sanctified in the body of centuries, to the point that calling them into question becomes difficult. We have reached the point where this ideology is hostile to the whole world. So he concluded al-Sisi: Is it conceivable that 1.6 billion Muslims kill the rest of the world's population to live alone? It is inconceivable. You imam - al-Sisi said - are responsible before Allah for this revolution. The whole world is waiting for your next step. That is why it is important that the millions of Islamics from Rome, London, Berlin and Paris watched with apprehension and dismay the attack on Wednesday participate in the active cultural and political struggle against violence that, in the name of Islam, is at the heart of the values carved in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. This is an inescapable knot that questions the responsibilities and commitment of the European Islamic communities and their political and religious leaders. It goes without saying, Minister, that in this historic challenge Europe must be increasingly united (including politically, without shortcuts, as you have said), and increasingly strong in its values of rights and freedoms attached to Paris and must demand the moral support of all those who live in Europe and who enjoy their freedoms. The designers died for an idea; the murderers are soldiers of a war against freedom of thought and speech, against tolerance, pluralism and the right to offend, against all that is dignified in a democratic society. That's why we all have to try to be Charlie not only yesterday, not just today, but every day. [[Applause from the SCPI, PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u7	Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u8	Minister, in thanking you for the content of the information you have proposed to us, I welcome the call for unity and determination that must characterize a democratic nation. At the same time, however, let me make a few points. You deliberately flew over the dynamics of the facts, giving them for acquisitions. However, I believe that, if what happened in France had happened in our country, we would still be here today to ask ourselves about an attack, however, not entirely clear, with implications ranging from the documents "forgotten" in the car, to the quiet times of escape of the terrorists, to the lack of protection of the editorial staff of a weekly that was long considered objective sensitive, to the weapons of the bombers. I quote these passages because obviously it is not up to us to make fleas to France, but to reflect on what has happened from them and that at any time could happen also from us. However, this is an attack by Islamic actors, which is sufficient to feed the foundations of new conflicts, just as suggested by the inspirers of this umpteenth massacre. In this sense, however, it is surprising that there is no thought in Europe capable of meeting the challenge posed by radical Islam. I want to be very clear and try not to be formal: no one more than I is convinced that religion and faith are a window of reason wide open on reality and that when they are reduced to a pretext for a power project they are far from the heart of the values of religion. However, it is very difficult to distinguish completely what is Islam and what is terrorism, in the sense that not only and not primarily to us, but first of all to the Islamic world what happens poses a challenge. It is not enough to say, as many members of the Islamic community do, that terrorism has nothing to do with Islam, exactly for the reasons outlined by my colleague Maran. We went there too: we too had a dark season of ideology in which we thought to solve everything by saying that certain values of the cultures of the left and right had nothing to do with terrorists. Yet, that deep hole that dug a generation's grave has long remained immune from being analyzed forcefully. Nor is it sufficient to point out that there are often hands involved behind terrorists. In order to respond adequately to criticism and to avoid fog, more is needed; a revision is needed that allows to criticize at the root the theological-political reduction of faith carried out by important currents of contemporary Islam. This is what the President of Egypt requested in his speech, a speech, indeed, ignored by our media. The Islamic world - as has already been mentioned and as al-Sisi said - can no longer be perceived as a source of anxiety, danger, death and destruction, but the religious leaders of Islam must leave themselves and favor that religious revolution already mentioned by my colleague Maran. If they do not, they will assume - al-Sisi said again - the responsibility of having brought the Islamic community on a path of ruin before God. The erroneous thinking of which al-Sisi speaks is characterized by ideas and texts that have been sacred, especially in the context of many of the Islamic media in recent years, leading the entire Islamic community to inimicate the whole world. Al-Sisi's speech, in short, had strong tones of admonition, especially for the guides of that world who were recalled in today's context to a fundamental and documented importance. The fact that Egypt has resumed today that leadership function that until a few years ago seemed to be in Turkey, could actually be a good sign, given the days we live. But this shortsightedness of the Western media about such an important event, not only for the Islamic world, but also for us, documents the emptiness of thought that we were talking about, namely the West's inability to deal with contemporary Islam, an inability "suspected," aimed at putting in the background or to pass under silence those voices that go countertrend, as if what one really wanted to exorcise was every possible conflict. Thus, the Paris attack shows the powerlessness of political correctness, cultural relativism and paradoxically legitimate a reaction that in France already finds expression in aggressions towards members and headquarters of the Islamic community. In short, it is pretended not to understand that Islam today has a serious problem within it, a twenty-year-old bubbon, characterized by a theological-political radicalism similar to that which inflamed the world of the 1970s, when the political theologies influenced by Marxism did not hesitate to embrace the mitre in the name of a faith reduced to an ideological pretext to dominate the world. This delusion of the mind that fascinates part of today's Islam, with the complicity often of political games also of the West, must be fought by helping, first of all, the healthy part of Islam. This is today's task, difficult, difficult, hindered by those who do not want to know, in the Islamic world, about peace. What they know is the ancient motto "divide and rule" and the attack in Paris, exacerbating souls, contributes to this division. In order to be able to develop a strategy to combat these phenomena, which can go beyond the contingency and ultimately eradicate the scourge of terrorism, the international community must resolve some of the issues related to the ambiguity of the institutional context. It will be extremely difficult to find suitable solutions as long as within the United Nations, for example, it is allowed to publicize and relaunch the debate on issues related to fundamentalist preaching, as in the case of countries such as Sudan, whose political positions have often and willingly been safeguarded by cross-cutting alliances. The theme of fundamentalism must not, therefore, be withdrawn from the cylinder only in these weeks, in light of the danger posed by ISIS, but must be waged a battle of democracy in order to promote in a unified way the idea of civil coexistence that as an international community we are called to build. In this sense, the European Union must also loosen up a number of issues related to its political project. My hope, on the eve of the closure of the Italian-led European Semester, is that there will be an effective start to a genuine European Union foreign policy and that we will not have to consider the High Representative in a few months' time as yet another supermobile leader, called upon to ratify the non-decisions taken by each individual Member State. Today, in fact, in the scenario we are witnessing, it is essential to take a decisive position of the international community and perhaps it could also be a good opportunity to restart the dialogue with the Russians, convincing them to focus on what is most essential for the balance of the world order and desisting from the hegemonic intentions in the Central European area and the Baltic. It would be bitter, that is, if, in the aftermath of the Paris attack, we were to resign ourselves to the divisions between Russia and the West, lending our support to those who point to these divisions, as to many other our frailties, in order to realize their crazy plan, in which the power of violence is everything and man, instead, is nothing. [[Applause from Senator Alicata]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u9	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all, allow me to express once again, on behalf of the Group of the North Legacy, our closeness to family members and also a moving thought to the victims of the serious bloodshed in Paris. Yesterday, in Paris, there were two million people celebrating mourning and expressing their indignation at terrorism and in support of our fundamental freedoms, thus sending a strong and determined signal. However, an honest and detached reflection is appropriate, for the overwhelming presence in the front row of the Heads of State and Government, of all Europe and not only, and for the equally strong discomfort created by the absence of the leaders of Russia and the United States. As far as President Obama is concerned, this morning in the American press the discomfort has turned into a deep indignation, for not even having had the delicacy to send on behalf either Vice President Biden or Secretary of State Kerry. There was Eric Holder, attorney general, unfortunately resigned: this makes us think. Mr. Minister, the presence of Abu Mazen and Netanyahu in the front row has certainly not gone unnoticed, but it has not even gone unnoticed the fact that they did not even give themselves a look: an honest and detached reflection leads us to say that if a strong nod yesterday was to be addressed to those two million people, perhaps, in the first place, it should have come to them. Just the unity of European intent, represented forcefully parading under arms in yesterday's procession, has crumbled just "end of the catwalk": allow me to use this expression. It sounds like a joke, Minister, but unfortunately it is a cruel reality. Last night, the French Minister for the Interior, followed by the Spanish Government, stated that the Schengen Treaty was absolutely to be reviewed - until proven otherwise, even if you, Minister, say otherwise - or perhaps even suspended, even if temporarily. This request, reiterated in a note today, comes from a report by French intelligence, which estimates in about 1,200 French citizens who have radicalized in Islam. They are therefore Community citizens, who therefore enjoy free movement. In this regard, Mr Alfano, the increasingly incompetent Minister, unfortunately followed by you, Minister, said that for some dozens of terrorists we cannot give up our freedom of movement, because we will give them a huge gift. At this point it is normal to say that European cohesion is a joke. That's a joke, Minister. It is, however, in essence that we do not agree at all. Maybe freedom of movement is not safety of movement and is not even a guarantee and tranquillity of movement? As far as we are concerned, Minister, Schengen must be suspended immediately. That is what we think. It's absolutely wrong to bail. Our country is already at very high risk for the wretched and improvised policy put in place to face the tragedy of landings, which must also end. The facts of Paris require that borders be made secure. At this point, Minister, since you have provided us with data, and by making a simple mathematical calculation, if it is true, as Europol says, that one in a thousand of those who land are potentially terrorists, at this point, if your data is correct, we have potentially 160 terrorists on our territory. That's math, that's not my statement. By the way, Minister, how many deaths do you still want in the Mediterranean? I'm also telling Minister Pinotti. How long do you still want to deceive those men and those who look to the West in the hope of a better future? I would remind you that the President-in-Office of the Council, when presenting his programme to Parliament, stated that there would be - in his own words - a new concept of border: from a barrier to hope, from an insurmountable limit to a bridge between different communities. Once again, Minister, alas, the facts show exactly the opposite. In this regard - I tell you with my heart - we are tired of taking lessons of good and correct integration from you. You have no concrete strategy for good integration. Only gratuitous, irresponsible and above all contentless goodness. A tip: take an example from the mayors, from all the mayors, who from good fathers of the family, in their limit, certainly make a better integration. But on the facts of Paris integration has nothing to do with it. The killers were second generation: and here you touch the nerve discovered. In Europe, and also in our country, there is an increasing part of people who, in the name of Islam, do not want integration, but want our submission and, by their action, overwhelm those who have completely different feelings and wills within them. We strongly ask, at this point, that, if we want to talk about mosques, they are at least glass mosques. We think it's fair to know who's funding them. Who pays for these mosques? You don't know. We believe that it is right to understand and know who preaches within these mosques, for the good of all, including those in mosques who go to us with feelings of peace and brotherhood: they too are put at risk. I would like to remind you, among other things, Minister, that in Turkish mosques it is forbidden to preach in Arabic; worship is celebrated in Turkish. And Turkey has a substantial prevalence of Islamics: 80%. We also ask the Muslim community present in Italy to take strong distances from those deviant pockets present within them. There's still too much uncertainty, there's still too much shyness, maybe there's still too much fear. An attempt was made, but yesterday there was also some confusion, especially in Brescia, in the statements of those who participated in that procession. We ask the Government to brush up that process of confrontation with the Islamic community in our country initiated by the then Minister Maroni, who was particularly appreciated by the Islamic community itself and which was shipwrecked not because of a problem of the Government, but because of a problem within the Islamic community. We also want to ask you, Minister, to immediately revoke your residence permit to those persons who have been on the American no fly list or who have been to Syria or Iraq for unjustified reasons, or to those who - we know them - are responsible on social networks for actions that celebrate the holy war. These people must be identified and expelled and their residence permit must be removed for the good of all. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In conclusion, Minister, we do not have any particular confidence. I would say that we hardly have any confidence in our Government. On the other hand, we trust in our European partners, who have unfortunately paid an disproportionate tribute to this madness with innocent blood. The contrast to this madness, however, if there is no international unity of intent, will be doomed to fail and it is not only our concern: it is the concern of all Italians. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u11	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u12	Mr President, Mr Gentiloni, we also reiterate our condolences for the tragic events and events of France, its Government and the victims, the French people, but also for the Jews, the Islamics, the Catholics, the agnostics and the atheists, who were directly and indirectly affected. But what happened doesn't allow us to stop here. Mr Gentiloni, we strongly agree with the political lines you have outlined and those indicated by the President-in-Office of the Council in the various formal and informal fora, but we must be able to explain to the people and states of Islamic culture and religion, but not only, that the so-called advanced countries, for wealth, social conditions, economic and technological development, are faced with terrorism in the face of the alternative: investing primarily in their internal security or developing actions to support the economic and technological development of the territories of potential or real origin of terrorist phenomena and pressures: a terrorist resurgence obviously tends to reduce the development of the second option. Certainly more intelligence, but also more intelligence in dealing with a serious situation of the long term, where the exercise of the muscles, the military force must be used with determination when necessary, with great prudence, however, knowing that it can produce side effects of difficult management: destroying state structures, charging tragedies to the civil populations, triggering anti-system reactions, creating explosive mixtures for fundamentalisms of all kinds. Iraqi, Afghan, Libyan and Syrian experiences teach, but many other situations could be recalled. The growing need for security, imposed by terrorist phenomena and highly offensive organised crime, requires great organisational and economic-financial commitment, while the current economic phase would impose investments and resources in the civil economy sector and in many other directions. We will not succeed, therefore, if we do not courageously put our hand to the unification between some security bodies, realizing rationalizations with displacements of resources in a more rational logistics and eliminating overlaps of commands and functions with the same tasks and similar competences. We must proceed without delay to the implementation of the National Anti-Terrorism Public Prosecutor's Office to be integrated with the anti-Mafia Public Prosecutor's Office, in order to avoid further duplication, but guarantee specific specialisation. The strengthening of the investigative structures must, however, proceed with a strong elevation of the court's third partyhood in the trial, even with a clear separation of careers between the judge and the party. Italy looks far into the world, of course, but resumes its leading role in the areas of its traditional relationship and influence. It makes no sense to deal only with distant friends, albeit influential and important to us from an economic and energy point of view. We need to be more aware that strong attention is needed to our neighbours, thereby relaunching an effective Mediterranean policy (Libya, Tunisia, Egypt) in the first place, without forgetting the historical debt we owe to Somalia, Eritrea and Ethiopia, from which phenomena that fuel the risk of terrorist contamination come. We appreciate the Council President Renzi's considerations that Europe is not only the new homeland of the 3% debt-GDP limit. We must also remind the French, the British and the Germans that a serious security policy, which requires the interaction of intelligence services and other security equipment, requires greater political integration and greater democracy. It is illusory that we can think of granting greater sovereignty to supranationals in neurological and strategic sectors, without guaranteeing the simultaneous growth of the unity of political institutions, that is, of unitary, democratic, European governance. In conclusion, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware that, without reducing inequalities between peoples, between states, between rich and poor; without respect for the identities, the stories of cultures and religions of others, using appropriate means of comparison and that only in extreme cases do they foresee the use of military force; without relaunching a strong policy of international economic and cultural cooperation; without a strong moderation of national, ethnic and religious selfishness; without overcoming fundamentalisms and fundamentalisms of any kind, even those of our own, from which we cannot declare ourselves immune, it is difficult to face the future. Otherwise, we will have to consider dangers and tragedies, and a tendency to reduce our areas of security, freedom, democracy, in essence our individual and collective welfare, Italians, Europeans, Westerners, citizens of the world, rich and poor, because these will be the effects that will affect everyone and everywhere. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u13	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u14	Mr President, I wish to express on behalf of my Group and my party the most complete closeness, the most complete solidarity with the French people, with its institutions, so deeply affected in the past days, as well as, of course, with the families of the many victims killed by hatred, fanaticism and not just by the lead of bullets, obviously associating my words with those of the Minister. It has been remembered many times in these days that brutally hitting the freedom of expression of a newspaper means aiming at the heart of one of the most decisive bulwarks of our civil life. And for us, free women and men, raised in democratic countries, it is even superfluous to remember a fundamental point: whatever the level of sharing an idea, even more so if we do not like that idea, it does not convince us, it is not ours, as can be the case with a cartoon more or less shared, but it is essential and decisive to guarantee its free expression. To do the opposite, and to do it in the most horrible and cowardly way, by killing unarmed and unarmed people, means to affirm a perverse principle towards which no tolerance of any sort can ever exist. Whatever the reason and cause of so much hatred, there can never be any understanding or justification. We will now, even more than before, have to work to protect freedom of expression in all its forms, in all the places of the world in which it is called into question. That is also why I would like to address all my solidarity and solidarity in this House, and I hope that of my group's colleagues who are not in Raif Badawi, a blogger who is guilty of opening an online forum and therefore condemned in Saudi Arabia, as well as prison, to a thousand intolerable and unacceptable lashes. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL, PD and M5S Groups.]] Hitting France means, as has been mentioned, striking Europe as a whole, its democracy, its fundamental values, and it simply means trying to drag the world towards barbarism. This is why we must, more than ever, make our own the teachings of those who wanted to remember that, especially in the most difficult times, strength must always pay a tribute to reason. That is why we will have to do exactly the opposite of what a becera, cynical propaganda is telling over the course of these hours, stating the principle that Europe, although hit, will be able to maintain its values to the full. Our society must remain open, democratic, free and secular. In order to fight terror we will never have to give up our civil rights, otherwise our fight would already be lost. The aim of the terrorists is precisely this, that is, to make us become like them, to drag us into a war of civilization that day after day destroys the constituent elements of our civil culture. Instead, we claim the right not to be like them, to march (as yesterday in Paris) in millions of faces uncovered against fear and terror, to imagine again and forever multi-ethnic and multi-religious societies in which different men and women can live freely and peacefully. We will not win this battle in the name of the logic of the emergency, abandoning our democracy and the fundamental values that inspired it; it will certainly not be the so-called war on Islam or the law of the taglion; it will not be the special laws and even the closure of our borders and even the restrictive revision of the Schengen agreements the elements we need to defeat the terror. We will have to do the opposite of what some cynical characters say in search of visibility and of easy consent. More than ever we will have to remember that the fight against terror will have to be carried out at the same time as the fight against racism, intolerance towards the different, as has been authoritatively recalled in recent days also by the highest voices of French culture and institutions. Of course, we will have to work, even in the light of the things the Minister has told us this evening, to make our work of prevention and intelligence even more effective, even by rejecting those sometimes too eager positions that do not deal with a changed reality than in the past. Above all, however, we must be able to build a European foreign policy capable of speaking a single language: a language that holds together the need for security with that of integration and interlocation in particular with that largely majority Islamic world that rejects and opposes the logic of terror. We need, more than ever, a truly united Europe, by vigorously relaunching the theme of political and social unity and not only economic and monetary unity, also in order to better manage not only the great issue of immigration and integration, but ultimately that greater social equity decisive for democratic development capable of guaranteeing all citizens fundamental rights and a dignified existence: we really hope, Minister, that yesterday's demonstration can be a true starting point from this point of view. We will have to fight Al Quaeda, ISIS (or Daesh) and all the hateful fundamentalisms, but we will also have to ask ourselves what are the most effective tools to fight them and annihilate them. Precisely for this reason we cannot and cannot omit the fundamental consideration that we have so many times made, fortunately not alone but in large company, very large part of the pacifist world not only of this country: the political and geopolitical choices of the West of the last twenty years, from the first Gulf war up to the support of unknown Sunni groups in Syria in anti Bashar key, the war adventures in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya not only have not exported democracy, but have been authentic and repeated failures: they have not stopped terrorism, Minister, but have fueled it. We must start again from our mistakes and also from our timidities, even those of the current Government, which unfortunately is still unable to recognize - just to say one - once and for all the Palestinian State. Recognizing that in recent years the West has not sufficiently strengthened (in fact, sometimes it has weakened) the political organizations enemy of fundamentalism (I think of the PLO in Palestine, I think of the resistance of the PKK to Kobane, just to name a few) means having the courage to know how to change the way compared to some choices made in the past, which unfortunately proved wrong. Too many times our own country has renounced to have that autonomous elaboration and also that role of bridge between different political cultures, which, moreover, over the past decades, political forces very far from my political culture had, however, been able to carry out with great effectiveness and also with great results. Being able to admit these mistakes is an essential way of not losing this battle. This time our democracy and our freedom are at stake. So, really, there's no way we're gonna lose this fight. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Mussini and Puppato]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u15	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Saturday morning in Paris, for the first time since the end of World War II, on a day in Shabbat, the great synagogue in Paris was closed. This news - in a certain key, the most dramatic of those of the three days, in the light of that photographic comparison suggested by a beautiful image of the Minister's communications - is perhaps the one that best encloses the drama that Italy, Europe, the West, our conscience in these days. I must honor an Italian newspaper, which is not one of my usual readings: the "Avvenire" (Avvenire). The "Avvenire" that day was by far, journalistically at least, the best Italian newspaper. The editorial was entrusted to an intellectual Jew, Anna Foa: The terror in Paris: those who remain silent are lost. On pages 2 and 3 on the "Avvenire" there was a beautiful bump and response between the director Tarquinio and a priest, Father Giuseppe Serighelli, passionist of Lourdes. The title was: "I am Charlie and yet I am not Charlie." I think that day that newspaper honored the spirit of the news and the sense of the story of what was happening. Why do I want to start at the great synagogue in Paris? Because, Minister, at the end of 2014, there is a figure that is even more painful to record. That Friday, when people are shot and killed because they are Jewish in Paris, marks the memory of the 7,000 French Jews who left in 2014 alone. After the American one, the French Jewish community is the largest of all and it is now more than ten years that in Paris there is no Jew who can wear the kippah in the city, who can wear it on the subway, with the guarantee of not being insulted, when not beaten. So, these data are important because, as writer Anna Foa said, the Jews have always been the tip of diamond, perhaps the symbol itself, of the West. There is, therefore, a matter of identity. We Europeans (and we were hypocrites and lukewarm Italians) probably hurt, indeed badly, when in that Convention for a European constituent (i.e. more than ten years ago) we refused to include the Jewish-Christian roots. What does that mean, from an identity point of view? That by claiming the Jewish-Christian roots we would honor, not eradicated, those roots of the Enlightenment that entered, instead, that document and complete our identity, certainly not in contrast to the Jewish-Christian culture. Then, in the face of these facts and this condition of things, it is spontaneous to fear not to arouse Islamophobies; of course, however, beware: it cannot become a commonplace and a mantra. As if the fear of not raising Islamophobies was the primary priority of a policy that we still have to define; as if it were a sort of petition of principle and as if our identity were to be defined in negative, on the contrary. There are those who say no to Islam and then on the other side they say no to Islamophobia: these are nonsense, banality, that do not respect the dramatic reconstruction of those three days. Identity. But what is our identity? We must try to define, to deepen, to improve the definition of our identity in order to find a proper political determination. Then, again in this case I come to the "Avvenire" (I am Charlie, and yet I am not). I come back to a beautiful statement the day before, when Wolinski's daughter, a young lady, orphan, said: In that desk my father worked, not Wolinski. So, you see, in this human feeling of her daughter, I'm also Charlie. It's different if we ask ourselves the question of the spirit of sixty-eighty-eighty. It is irrelevant but I have always been a stranger to it: I have every right to claim that I have been twenty years old in the Sixty-eight and that I have not been sensitive to sixty-eight; therefore I do not accept that it is sixty-eighty-eighty-something the wall of sensitivity to an affair of freedom of expression, of freedom of the press, which certainly includes freedom of satire, but which then has to go much further, to the journalism of the eighteenth-century English, to the de gravures campaign of France in 1814. A prestigious senator, Francesco Cossiga, always cited Cardinal Newman as an example of liberal Catholicism. And Cossiga, who liked the expression "I am not an adult Catholic, I am a penitent Catholic and at the same time an unrepentant liberal," of Cardinal Newman loved to remember when he addressed his faithful saying: Get out of this church and this community of faithful those who do not allow themselves and others to laugh and smile at their religious beliefs. That is why blasphemy sometimes deserves disgust, but it is not a crime, and especially in this sense it cannot be an identity. Minister, the most convincing part of your presentation was when you recalled the fundamental speech of General al-Sisi, but it is a speech of January 1, Minister, and in the Western community, in the press reviews of the newspapers, we of al-Sisi's speech ignored, censored and downplayed everything: we needed a journalistic scoop, happens, from Jerusalem (Maurizio Molinari on "La Stampa" ), then gladiatoriously resumed by Sergio Romano Thursday morning and by Giuliano Ferrara in the evening, in the match with Santoro. According to al-Sisi Islamic fanaticism is the son of a dominant thought that has become, over time, code: Sharia. It would therefore be up to the Imams and the ulems to dismantle dogmatism and promote a religious revolution which would prevent us from considering the ancient scriptures as immutable texts to be read literally. These are words, those of al-Sisi, very close to the spirit and not only, even to the lexical dictation, of Ratzinger's speech in Regensburg and, therefore, very far from that sheik Tantawi, anti-Semitic in effective permanent service, rector of Al-Azhar University, to whose side very inappropriately President Obama, in 2009, gave the opening speech to Iran in Cairo, and obviously very far from the hypocritically mixed banals among various Western newspapers of the anti-Zionist Tariq Ramadan. Is there anguish and what is it? That the reason for the censorship, silence or self-censorship of General Al-Sisi was not so much because he called Ratzinger into the field, but because General Al-Sisi had dismantled the Muslim Brotherhood and told his fellow citizens what was to be said about his predecessor, General Morsi. Now, if the West were afraid, shyness or uncertainty in seeking that middle way, that political path between the determination not to abdicate and the complexity of one's identity, this would not be serious, it would be understandable and, perhaps, even necessary. It would be different if Europe gave in today (when it did not give in at the end of the seventies, when the missile re-armament of Soviet totalitarianism seemed to crush us in the vileness of the Sabbaths of Nationalpacifism). Then Europe was able to react and I remember, in times when one remembers so much the novel of Houellebecq that I have not yet read (but it will certainly be a beautiful book), an even more beautiful book that wrote in the seventies Raymond Aron, entitled "Plaidoyer pour l'Europe décadedente". After that, the missile re-armament came and Europe, led by Chancellor Schmidt, was able to regain that right connection of Western civilization with the American ally. It must not happen differently this week in the face of the odious challenge of the last three days in Paris. [[Applause from the NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u17	Colleagues, we greet the students and the students of the Institute "Arimondi-Eula" in Savigliano, in the province of Cuneo, who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u19	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has only been a few hours since the events in Paris, and so many words have already been spent on the story that will go down in history like Charlie Hebdo. However, I think it is important to stress a number of aspects that have been overlooked or not in depth. First of all, I would like to make a general analysis of the phenomenon and then some considerations of internal policy. A few months ago you started to become familiar with a new subject called ISIL, i.e. Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. Then, you preferred to call him ISIS, that is, the Islamic State of Syria and Iraq. As their strength grew, you noticed that perhaps it was convenient to call it IS, i.e. Islamic State, without any geographical suffix. Then, also thanks to the UN resolutions and Obama's statements, you began to reflect on the fact that perhaps associating the word Islam with terrorism was not really a correct choice, and that the state definition indicates a sort of surrender. So we finally came to call him Daesh! It took you about a year simply to name a global phenomenon. I have the doubt - and we have it - that this situation, if you were ever able to do so, can be resolved within some time. It is not by chance that I have spoken about the phenomenon of world-wide flow. In fact, it must be understood that these phenomena have antagonistic characteristics to the model of society proposed in the West. You spoke of Schengen and of coordination between the European forces at our borders towards the outside of Europe. He spoke of flight list controls, but, even in the case of Charlie Hebdo, they are natives, they are second generation. What's the point of these checks? Above all, it seems a totally different vision from that presented by his colleague Angelino Alfano in the Chamber. I quote from the information given by the Government to the Chamber of Deputies: The government's new measure aims at home made molecular terrorist, capable of becoming an individual and terrorist enterprise, in the sense that it self-radicalizes and self-trains, even by using the web. It procures weapons and instructions for their use, it designs alone (and however without apparent and proven belongings to structured networks) attacks or terrorist actions. This, therefore, is totally different from what you have told us this afternoon. Anyway, let's move on. Analyzing this sentence pronounced by Minister Alfano, it is evident that, decontextualizing it, it could be applied to many other areas and already this, in itself, makes us understand how the strategy used in these acts is the very daughter of the surrounding world. I believe that we must have this capacity for analysis because, otherwise, we reduce ourselves here to making simplifications and trivializations, getting to talk about boats and race, while the dynamics are much more complex. I do not want to fall into the trap, already described by Oriana Fallaci, according to which, even in these facts and in these episodes, the only thing that succeeds in producing the opposition is only a criticism of the government in turn. However, I must also honour my opposition role and, therefore, I have the right to tell you that it will surely reduce at the beginning of this parliamentary term about 20,000 police units and then come to declare a strengthening of controls sounds somewhat inconsistent and above all not feasible, as denounced in these hours by the police unions themselves. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This reinforcement was not simply because there can be no. Mr Minister, what you have before you is therefore a choice: you must choose whether Italy and Europe must be a democratic state and community (therefore open) and, at the same time, ensure that individual rights and freedoms are guaranteed, without necessarily establishing a police state. It is clear to me that this is an important choice. So, where do you start? That is a question I would like to ask you directly, Minister. For example, you could start by guaranteeing dignity to people, making available not only a job, but first of all an income that does not put us against each other. You could also stop that really bad practice of financing the friend of now, that we already know will be the enemy of tomorrow and that - maybe - will return to be friend again in some time, one day, who knows! You could stop telling us that, with the F35s, we can also put out the fires. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] By the way, Minister, you said that we are in battle and that we are strongly engaged in this battle. I would like to remind you, modestly, that the commitment to war must have parliamentary support and this seems to me somewhat excessive as a constitutional reform: perhaps it is an amendment that you have now introduced to the House, I do not know. You sent weapons to support the fighters, but what he didn't tell us is what you're doing here. You didn't tell us what you're doing here in our country. Another thing you could stop doing, for example, is letting us open the closets of so many massacres and attacks and make us always find all the faldons strictly empty. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Another thing - for example - that you could have done is not to reduce the funds to international cooperation and, instead, to increase the funds for integration, which are all too often on the shoulders of volunteers. You could also begin, above all, to be less hypocritical and stop, therefore, being luxurious and tuned cicadas singing in chorus. In these hours you have jumped on the wagon of freedom of information and expression and on the wagon of freedom of satire. I would like to ask you a question: how many of you knew Charlie Hebdo before last Wednesday? Few, very few. How many of you know the following names: Ayaan Hirsi Ali, Terry Jones, Morris Sadek, Carsten Luste, Kurt Westergaard, Molly Norris, Lars Vilks, Geert Wilders, Stephane Charbonnier - this yes - and Salman Rushdie? This is the list of Al Qaeda's Most Wanted. This is the information you have to give us. Of course, I think you're making fun of us. Already the very fact of talking about freedom of information in Italy makes itself laugh. You mentioned Boko Haram and Nigeria, but you didn't tell us that 1% of the Nigerian population controls 75% of the national wealth, which is oil. Nigeria and Angola are the largest producers of black gold. The Nigerian political class has distracted 26 billion dollars, 6 billion of which only in the last eleven months. That is information and that is what you have not told us. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that it was you, the current and past political class, the first censors and the first to silence satire and information. And you've been doing this for many years. Many of you will remember Alighiero Noscese, one of the first artists who was censored by the old RAI. But I could quote Forattini, for example, and I do not mention other names because so many have been made these days. Finally, I would like to quote a phrase that, for us Movement 5 Stars, sounds like a premonition and that is dated 1986: "But if they are all socialists to whom do they steal?" Do you remember her? Do you remember who said it and who censored it for 20 years? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But without going that far, you slaughtered us. You told us that we are Nazis, fascists, simply because we took a sentence and re-used it in another context. Go read what was written on Beppe Grillo's blog a few days ago. I conclude by saying to you: start being less hypocritical and integrate yourselves with the world around you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u20	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u21	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is more complex than talking about Alighiero Noscese. Beyond the condolences, which we also renew with regard to the victims, journalists, satire, policemen, French Jewish citizens and the numerous victims of these raids, Minister Gentiloni first recalled certain circumstances. If we consider these terrorists to be isolated splinters, we make a serious mistake. These are the avant-gardes of a vast fundamentalist movement that - as Gentiloni also recalled when talking about the events of Nigeria - extends over an immense geographical arc. A few days ago, Boko Haram exterminated another 6,000 people in a village, resulting in kidnappings, rapes and constraints on the conversion of women and people. And this is Nigeria. In Algeria and surroundings there are fringes of Al Qaeda of the Maghreb. New facts happen in Libya minute after minute. A few moments ago by the press agencies it was learned that the Islamic State, a Libyan branch, claims the kidnapping of 21 Christians, publishing the photographs of those people. The catastrophic evolution of the Libyan situation is precisely such that it must keep an eye on the news minute after minute. If you move a little further east, we have the Islamic State (or Daesh): a piece of Syria and Iraq that has become - as you said - the terrorism that is being made State, that has oil, banks and money and is even more dangerous than Al Qaeda, because it has a place where you can organize more and better. If we proceed eastward, we find the Taliban in Afghanistan, who could always regain control of the situation; fundamentalist terrorism that in Pakistan, a few days ago, killed children in schools. And let us not forget Somalia and the camps in Yemen where Al Qaeda prepares people. Senator Compagna quoted first newspapers and various sources to which we all draw. Morten Storm is a Danish, who later collaborated with Western forces, who described the organization of Al Qaeda in Yemen. And even the protagonists of the French story seem to have passed from there. Saudi Arabia and Qatar give some money to people who would imitate it, because it's better to live quietly. And we could continue to Asia, because we can find traces of these movements in Malaysia, the Philippines and even Thailand. The situation, therefore, is very serious and the fundamentalists who have struck are the avant-gardes of this reality. We certainly distinguish Islam and fundamentalism, but we are not talking about a small reality of isolated people. As regards the comparison made in recent days with the dramatic seasons of terrorism that Italy has experienced, this situation is quite different because it has a dramatic and disturbing planetary dimension. There is no point in remembering London, Spain, the Twin Towers and all that has happened. Obviously no one should underestimate these events, but he must also reflect on the fact that the West, probably, in recent years has mistaken wars and peace, because it has retired from Iraq perhaps earlier; it is withdrawing from Afghanistan perhaps earlier, thinking that peace comes. Then we saw that the Islamic State arrived in Iraq, other than peace. God forbid Afghanistan could become something like this in the years to come. We have made wars wrong because, when there was war in Libya, I remember how the government of the time tried to say, even when fighting with Sarkozy and Obama, to be careful because it could create a void. Silvio Berlusconi had made a different policy, a realpolitik, towards Libya and Gaddafi. It is not that this was the maximum of acceptability with respect to the canons of democracy, but that strange character had become more folkloristic than threatening. The West had held the Gaddafi as an accomplice to the terrorism of the eighties and fought him when he had become more of a freak phenomenon, creating the gap that opened. There's always something worse. The West may have misplaced some peace and made some wars. Today we must take on our share of responsibility. I do not believe that the story of the Islamic State or Libya will be resolved only with beautiful marches or major unitary demonstrations. It is good that there have been to give a response of great strength and convergence of the international community, but it is not enough. We believe that the European Union, together with the United States, must take on specific responsibilities today. There is the Libyan affair, which you mentioned, which will sooner or later have to be dealt with with with all the burdens and risks that this entails. There is the story of the Daesh, of the Islamic State, which I do not think will be resolved only through debates in Western parliaments and international concussions. There were mistakes that someone had denounced, even at the time of the Arab Springs, greeted with much superficiality. Now everyone mentions al-Sisi, the Egyptian President. Before, Senator Compagna quoted some courageous interventions made by the current Egyptian President even in the presence of Islamic religious authorities to speak, like others did not, to the moderate Islamic world, of which we note too many silences despite some important presences in Paris yesterday. Al-Sisi spoke. I remember when some, all happy, saw in Egypt the electoral victory of the Muslim brothers. Al-Sisi is continuity with what represented Nasser, Sadat and Mubarak. That is the reality. So, even the Western world had to pay some attention. There was no opening of a season of democracy and freedom: the gap opened in Libya, the dark and disturbing phase of the Muslim brothers in Egypt and we returned - I am glad to add - to al-Sisi and to a continuity with Egypt in previous years. There were also cultural underestimates when Benedict XVI, in Regensburg, resuming an identity defense preaching that John Paul II had also made, uttered words that provoked attacks on the West, Europe and the Pope that many underestimated. There is a lot to do and a lot of things are waiting for us. There are also immediate things to do, beyond this scenario of great commitment. There are immigration policies to review. It is obvious that not all immigrants are terrorists, but the more they facilitate disorderly access, the more they facilitate the risk of terrorist infiltration in our country, the more disorder is created in change and social and demographic balances are altered, which must be managed with caution. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Integration policies also mean compatible numbers and quantities. And look that we are not out of the world: when from London, years ago, the terrorists of the famous metro attack fled, one escaped to the outskirts of Rome and took refuge in a prayer center, which was not a mosque, but was evidently connected with those realities. So, we are not out of the context of these risks. Then we need more control. We can't accept the freighter. Days ago, even a very moderate one like Rotelli, whom I think you have known, Minister Gentiloni, in some season of his life, said that we must destroy the cart ships, those to be destroyed, because they cannot be used to send refugees and illegals, and who knows who else, to our coasts. What are we doing? Why can Turkey, Greece and Malta be fooled by all this? This is something that can and must be done to curb uncontrolled flows. It has nothing to do with the planetary problems that will require political, strategic and even military interventions, but there are things that can be done. Meetings of the Interior Ministers are under way. Yesterday there was one in Paris - although I think it is more symbolic than anything else, given the moral importance of the day - and there will be another Friday, which will also be attended by Foreign Ministers. We in the Forza Italia Group are proposing the exclusion from the Stability Pact of the additional security costs that we will have to face. Currently in our country we replace half of the police or policemen who retire, with a replacement coefficient of 0.6 percent, so basically, for every unit that retires, we continue to lose strength. We've closed down offices and detachments. Alfano makes mistakes by minimizing these facts. I quote this because we will have to protect more goals. In Paris, terrorism wanted to hit a Jewish school, but then, since there was no chance, he hit himself in a shop and, again, in a newspaper. How many are the targets at risk in Italy? Numerous: newspapers, radio, television, schools. Protecting this will require commitment and cost. The European Heads of State, in addition to parading, stop then being accountants. Let us remove from the Stability Pact all the expenses necessary to defend our peoples. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]] This is a problem that also arises today in Italy. I think they took care of it at the Home Office. There is certainly a need to strengthen intelligence, which needs to exchange information more carefully. It seems that the Algerians had warned the French, so perhaps they were more organized in Algeria where, moreover, those problems have been known for a long time. I believe that this is also a concrete proposal, Minister Gentiloni: our Government takes charge of it. You will also have to spend money to protect our cities. How are we going to do with the Stability Pact, the semi-blocked turnover of the police forces and the closing offices? The Minister of Defence is no longer present in the Chamber, but the operation "Strade sicurezza" - for example - that has been done in Italy using the military, has seen a reduction in their number because the Ministry no longer has the money. How many useful activities, also of fixed supervision, in many contexts - I think, for example, Sicily or regions at risk - have carried out these military? I guess today's goals will be more than that. So let's make this choice. It is a concrete thing: the big and important things we will hardly be able to solve immediately and now. There will be a responsible contribution from the opposition. Today Silvio Berlusconi, in an interview with the Messenger, has clearly claimed the merits of the policy he conducts, asking with realism to dialogue with Russia, threatened within it by phenomena of fundamentalism. I believe that, rather than imposing sanctions today, we need to seek dialogue with Russia on a common front against fundamentalist terrorism, and this is another reason for reflection to be introduced into the European tables that will meet. I also wanted to take advantage of our model of civilization. In these days there has been the attack in Paris, but - it has been remembered - in Saudi Arabia they whip journalists or arrest women who drive the car. We should, therefore, also ask ourselves a little about the so-called moderate countries, on the model they want to defend. What rights do the immigrants who come to Italy recognize for their women and children? Is it possible that we are dealing with everyone's rights and we are not dealing with the rights that must be guaranteed to those who want to become citizens of our nation? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] Citizenship is not compatible with a mode of behavior foreign to elementary values. With regard to the question of the involvement of oppositions, in conclusion, Minister, I would also like to mention the affair of the Maròs. You, together with Minister Pinotti, said that you would be involved in the management of this case - which I quote only incidentally - the oppositions, but they have never been consulted. We are faced with many emergencies. What I have mentioned now, in front of the others we are talking about, although very serious, certainly has much smaller dimensions. However, I believe that everyone's involvement is necessary on the various issues we have discussed today, just as I believe that this involvement should be practiced. We will be defending the levels of freedom and democracy of the Western world, in the possible dialogue with those who can be our interlocutor. I believe, however, that on this, at this moment, the Government of this country must be humble, listening to the reflections of all and the experiences that are also made available to the Italian Republic by our benches. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and AP groups (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zavoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am a journalist who thinks like Luigi Einaudi when, at the dawn of our republican democracy, in his "Heri dicabamus" - in order to reconnect with a distant, dramatic interruption of the past - he writes: "Primum, to inform," that is, to exercise attention to everything that happens without indulging in the suggestive representations, but for a need to know and deepen, that is to know and understand. And, therefore, the idea that every mode of communication must have full freedom, including every critical and controversial tonality, contestant and satirical in language, from which personally and convincedly I have always excluded the arguments of faith and race. And just when things become difficult, that is the time to want to know more, not to fail to conclude that being born, if it does not oblige us to redo the world, nevertheless assigns us the duty of a responsibility, that is, the confrontation between what is both due and lawful. A psalmist had reminded us that creation has never ended and therefore we are here to make new, secularly, all things, discovering that knowing is the first chance to make it and that, to use another tone, study, information and politics are the first tools to face the problems of our daily and common life; and how, without those tools, one remained uncertain, divided, even hostile to one another, in the face of the most complex realities. I remember how after 9/11 it was feared that an exasperated spirit of revenge justified a tendency to soothe the offense to our Western pride, letting the punishment of terrorism fall over "a universe of huts," giving up with the non-peregrine idea of spare us an already restless world reaction. Nor were the voices of an immediate and strong, not only civil, pedagogy heard. It seems to me that it can be evident, without having to involve it in our issues, the passionate and strong declaration of the Fallaci, in that circumstance, which deserves respect, even if it does not find all my sharing. It was a scenario that recalled values among the deepest of the human condition and demanded not to make a whole of Islam and its irreducible fundamentalism, renouncing to see religion as the center of all possible primates, beginning with the "predilection of God." Here it is necessary to remember how John Paul II had invited the leaders of the great confessions to Assisi, to tell them that no chair or pulpit, bench or mat would have been allowed to expect a prayer to rise higher than all the others. The radical distinctions between the vast most responsible Muslimism and the barbaric terrorist choice were already becoming clear without the fact that in this latent dispute the crisis of the same concept of equity was being read in the West, on the grounds or on the pretext that a victim determined to produce another would not balance justice, but would leave two injustices on the same level; neither would the right be defended, albeit tragically violated, when it was claimed in a way to lose it, giving up the moral superiority of reason and therefore of choices. One wonders, today, what foundation that peace had. There had already been the answer of Spinoza, the Dutch philosopher of the Jewish family, who earned a living by shaping lenses from sight. And he saw, indeed, far away. He said: "For the sake of peace we can and must allow many things, but if barbarism were the cost of that peace, it would be the worst of misfortunes." We have heard in this House the various reasons for having to have access to a common reflection, prone to the search for a great and unprecedented cultural, political and interior response; that is, pluralism, conscious and responsible, nourished by rational and internal principles of a regular, while respecting a measure as the primary instrument of reflection, does not imply reducing or increasing the offended; all this in the form of a reason that does not fit on tolerances or increases, as in the compromises of the past. This criterion covers non-dogmatic categories, the result of civil and religious prejudice. Politics today celebrates the already historic embrace of Paris. As for the Church, and the true or presumed threats, I recall the anticipating words of Francis: "No one - I say no one - can afford to take religion as a pretext for his actions contrary to the dignity of man and his fundamental rights." [[Applause.]] These words were spoken in Tirana. A certain relativism objects: to hang on to a Kantian idea of universal peace would mean, not only for today, to oppose reason a rhetorical form of conformism. The "war of principles" and "peace by principle" would also require dangerous mysticizing halos. In this regard, he made the issue of Umberto Eco clear: The problem is whether the clash should become a war of civilization - or culture, to say the least - or a war between East and West. This doubt, which has a dramatic justification, is eliminated by secularizing to the highest degree the terms of the confrontation; and it is precisely what does not benefit the numerous fringes of Islamic bloody terrorism, to which it is appropriate to evoke by every means its opposite, that is, the crusade. Now, it would be unforgivable not to increase intelligence tools, starting with an information chain that concerts all the resources of prevention. It is equally important that European policy should not be divided on the very problematic issue of the Schengen Treaty and that America, with Obama, should promote a global summit on security, that is, against terrorism, bringing together a broad front that the technicians have called so far of "dissuade." As for the alarm of an alleged terrorist project aimed at striking the Vatican, it will obviously have to cause a punctual recognition of this or that alarm. We are living, even in the Senate House of our Republic, a moment which, if we are able to do so, can become a seed of wisdom or, if we are not, other threats. Alongside inappropriate forms, now ideological, of indulgence, is in fact being born, even by reaction, a racist extremism that is becoming increasingly intolerant towards a generic Muslim world, without any distinction whatsoever. Imprudence has left almost everything as it was. But New York and Paris are not the same thing. From this tragedy we will have to come out together not only with Europe and the West, but also with the vast masses of peaceful Islam, beginning with official statements, here and there still cautious, and by the courageous imams who have suffered the complicity with criminal radicalism, penalty to bring fascination to fire-starters. Our Foreign Minister spoke frankly about this. There is a need to ensure legality based not only on knowledge of rights, but also on crimes. It will not be enough to respect the reasons of morality and ethics. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Minister, Manlio Sgalambro, with a paradoxical hint of his philosophical pessimism, wrote: The peace of all against all is even more deadly than the war of all against all. Today there are more lethal weapons that every man carries with him, without the need for arsenals. It also happened in New York and London, now in Paris, where the reasons for the "measure" have to confront the realities from which they come and the effects they produce or can produce. I am thinking of fundamentalism, it is said to be Islamic, which in Nigeria, in the days of Paris, according to the tribal principle of having to punish the infidels, killed 2,000 people in three days. They were men, not human dust. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as a little intimidated by the fact that my speeches have preceded me and the richness of arguments, I have felt a little at the corner and I apologise now for the summing up of this speech. We are not faced with an apocalypse evoked, moreover, also philologically improperly, that is, out of proportion, but there is an urgent need to promote the call, and especially the response, of the West. Starting with Europe. If politics has gathered with its leaders in Paris and not in the muffled halls of the so-called diplomacy of conveniences, this represents a strong, trusting, binding hope. Blinding our countries would mean arming democracy. It is enough to inform, know and act, in peace, that is, in its highest and most demanding forms: in peace, the first light of freedom and justice, that is, of the universal dignity of man. [[Stretch applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u24	I declare closed the discussion on the information of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u25	We thank Minister Gentiloni for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u26	I communicate that the requested number of senators has received the request - pursuant to article 78, paragraph 3, of the Regulation - of remission to the Shareholders' Meeting of the favourable opinion expressed by the 1st Permanent Commission regarding the existence of the prerequisites of necessity and urgency of Decree-Law No 1 of 5 January 2015 laying down urgent provisions for the exercise of undertakings of strategic national interest in crisis and for the development of the city and area of Taranto (Act of Senate 1733). The agenda for tomorrow's afternoon's sitting shall be supplemented by the Assembly's resolution on that opinion, which shall take place from 12 noon.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u29	DEL BARBA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days Felice Calcaterra, who sat on these benches as Senator of Christian Democracy in the ninth legislature, in those eighties that marked important passages in our republican history, has disappeared. Felice Calcaterra was one of the closest collaborators of Giovanni Marcora, Albertino, a leading figure of the Resistance and several times Minister in the post-war period. Together with Marcora, Calcaterra was one of the founders in Lombardy of the current of the Base, although talking about currents, in his case, is certainly misleading. He was in fact a person who always spoke with everyone, without distinction and spirit of partisanism, a quality that has always guaranteed him over the years a unanimous appreciation, even from those who were very far from his ideas. Not surprisingly, for his funeral, today the Basilica of Sant'Ambrogio in Milan was packed with friends of all parties and movements. Deep knowledge of those local authorities that, in the years in which Calcaterra gave its public contribution, were being established as one of the most important points of reference in our country, he was head of the UPL (Provincial Union of Local Authorities), a body that those who deal with these problems know what contribution he has made to this issue. With Calcaterra, there goes a truly reserved man, very mild and above all open to dialogue, a quality of which in politics there is always so much need and which today perhaps you miss. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u32	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I begin with a slogan: "Out of school politics" First the President of the Council and the songs sung by the students of the schools; then the former minister Kyenge who, behind the European elections, ran around the schools of the Boots, from Bolzano to Lampedusa; lately members of the Democratic Party, who have made the tour of the schools to digest the pseudo-reforms of the President of the Council on the school; yesterday the news of a topic, in the Province of Vicenza. A diligent teacher gave this theme to her students: "Persuade one of your Legist companions that migration is not a problem, but a resource." [[Applause from Senator Puppato.]] Senator Puppato applauds, and I knew that the applause would come from there. It is shameful that taxes, which also pay the Legists, especially the Legists (seen and considered that taxes are usually paid by a part of this Italian kingdom), are used to pay certain teachers who make politics within schools: inappropriate teachers, inadequate teachers. We therefore hope that this reform of the President-in-Office of the Council will also serve to send certain teachers home. It is equally shameful for the teaching director to say: It is right that young people learn to deal with topical issues, defending the work of this teacher. At this point in this House - and we will get it officially - we invite the teacher to propose two more issues. The first theme entitled: "Immigrants: a resource for the Democratic Party's primaries? [[Laughter from the M5S Group]] ; the second: Are you and your parents happy to pay the taxes to receive the 170,000 invaders that Mr. Alfano brought us with Mare nostrum? I remind everyone of that student from Rovigo who had been suspended from her school for allowing herself to say her opinion on the immigration that is coming at this time in this country: double standards within the democratic - we hope it is not the "democratic party" - Italian school. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Senator Bencini's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u35	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, on 20 November 2014, a very interesting book was published by the great master Magaldi, founder of the Great East of democratic Italy, entitled: "Massoni". The author says - with so much photos in plain sight that for your information I'll show you (Senator Bottici shows a page of the book containing photos) - that our current President of the Republic is affiliated to the supranational aristocratic aristocratic, reactionary Masonic lodge Three Eyes. I wonder why the President has never officially denied the great Master Magaldi, when we parliamentarians must also be careful to name him in these classrooms. However, I note that after the release of the book began to talk about the resignation of President Napolitano, will there be a connection? Boh. He may have realized that having endorsed three governments (Monti, Letta and Renzi) not elected by citizens is not a good democratic practice. Who can assure us that in recent years the President has acted in the interests of the Italian Republic and not in the interests of the supranational secret lodge to which it would seem affiliated, a lawyer, a judge? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please stick to the subject you asked to speak for. BOTTICS (M5S). That's information. I'm asking for information. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, his opinions, it's not information. BOTTICS (M5S). That's information. There is a public book that states that the President of the Republic is affiliated to the secret Masonic Loggia Three Eyes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Maybe I didn't explain myself, when you ask questions, you don't ask information. [[Senator Tonini's comments.]] BOTTICS (M5S). I ask that we be given the opportunity to listen to the two versions. How come newspapers and televisions don't open a political debate on this? Why is this argument still considered taboo? It is true that now in these classrooms we are accustomed to everything, even to having a former President of the Council, fortunately for now still without political agility until a new President gives it to him, affiliated to the illegal and eversive Masonic lodge P2 with Card No. 1816. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish, your time is running out. BOTTICS (M5S). In the case of P2 there was a Commission of Inquiry. On this issue, however, I hope that the future Senator of Law Napolitano will find time to explain to all citizens at a press conference the whole story, or come to do so in this House, since he will soon be again Senator for life: all citizens look forward with anxiety and also to his future colleagues. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u36	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-372.ana.u37	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Tuesday 13 January, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.05 a.m.
