ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u4	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u8	I say that Parliament is convened today at 7 p.m. for the vote on the election of three judges of the Constitutional Court. The call will begin with the senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u11	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, last week Salvatore Sechi died. He held the secretariat of this Assembly when he was called by President Cossiga al Quirinale, where he remained with all the successive Presidents of the Republic, Scalfaro, Ciampi and Napolitano, as legal adviser. He was one of the architraves of our Republic because he was able to combine the knowledge of law and institutions with the ability to be outside the political struggles, managing to have relations with everyone. I had the chance to meet him several times because of some assignments I had. He was a person who did not let himself be dazzled by requests or any criticism; he was a man we can call a great servant of the State. As a good Sardinian, he did not have great words, but instead managed to operate in silence, in the atmosphere of effective consultant of various Presidents of the Republic, guaranteeing that control that the President of the Republic must carry out on the laws, many times careless; instead, during that period we must recognize to Salvatore Sechi, to whom my memory goes, the great ability to have had a attention to the institutions and a strong sensitivity to the powers that the Constitution recognizes to the President of the Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u12	The Presidency joins in and invites the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The President stands up and with you the whole House observing a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u13	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2145. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report, a preliminary question was rejected, the general discussion took place, the representative of the Government raised the question of trust and the discussion on the question of trust took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u16	IN MAY (CoR). Madam President, with one joke, I would say that the forty-fourth request for a vote of confidence would lead me to ask President Palma if perhaps it is not time for us to revisit an institution of the penal code, the circonvention of innocence, which I believe deserves some thought. Let's get to the measure. In it there is a perverse logic, subtle but terrible; so terrible that it goes as much as possible kept secret and hidden. No fuss, no press conferences, no slides, everything in disarray, like the thieves of Pisa: power of geographical appeal, I would say. In fact in this provision it is like being in a casket of logic that animated and animates all the thieves of the Leopolda, the same logic as the thieves of the Etruria Bank. That logic according to which first you steal and then you industrialize to see who will pay, with the usual escamotage: sure debt, to be settled on a date to be destined and strangely (but not so much, then) on dates that go far beyond the mandate of this Government. But this gangherato measure gives another certainty and it is who will pay: as always, citizens, artisans and Italian companies. But, just to avoid disturbing the meaning of the word "thieves," I would like to say that in this case, practically, I mean thieves of the future. The concept of economic policy and the idea that this government has of economic policy are testified to behind the wave of intervention. As we have tried to point out with our preliminary ruling, we are faced with yet another measure, which is nothing more than a list of interventions, anything but homogeneous, of which we do not understand the necessity and urgency. The urgency could lie in providing us with adequate security measures on the occasion of the Jubilee, in the face of the tragic events in Paris. Traces of necessity - but we really need a great inventiveness - we could trace them in the general intention of the Government to enhance the areas on which the Expo was recently established, even if such interventions had to and could be foreseen before. However, it does not appear that other measures today cover the characters indicated in Article 77 of the Constitution. Unless there is a need to avoid 50 million euros currently available and unused going into the economy, such as for Bagnoli, or the forthcoming implementation of an executive project in the field of research for an additional 130 million. But here we are in front of something else, Madam President. In the first case, we are faced with the clumsy attempt to give a signal of attention to the Neapolitan citizens, now accustomed to waiting for a recovery that seems to me beyond to come. And the celebrated decree unlocks Italy last year is the further proof: where are the State and the local authorities concerned? What has been the activity of the Extraordinary Commissioner and the implementing body in training, approving and implementing the environmental rehabilitation programme and the strategic guidance document for urban regeneration in that area? In the second case we are at the blank bill. The activity of the State consists of a generic participation for 50 million euros to be unknown which companies owning the areas in use at the Expo SpA and in a mysterious executive project of research elaborated by the Italian Institute of Technology (IIT), to which 80 million are destined, for whose realization will be able to use the areas in use at Expo SpA. All implemented with the help of the Deposit and Loan Fund. What are we talking about? What project? Why IIT and not other research institutes? And what would be the so-called major scientific institutions interested in the project? The CNR or who? And in all this, does the Ministry have a role? You don't understand. In order to understand, however, the meaning of the measure we are examining, Mr President, more than the need, we should use the criterion of opportunity, which perhaps explains more than we can imagine. Let's see, then: Jubilee, Expo, Bagnoli, then Rome, Milan, Naples. To complete - I suggest - the decree-law that will award 80 euros to all the unemployed of Turin and the electoral campaign for the next administrative will be completed. So, in order to remain the example of before, to keep 50 million in the budget, rather than allow the start of the environmental and urban rehabilitation programme - which extraordinary commissioner and subject actuator would already have had to implement, according to the decree unblocks Italy - does not it mean to maintain the employment levels of the society constituted specifically by the subject actuator and verified by the extraordinary commissioner? Are we, again, faced with the adoption of socially useful work? As well as the resources, further to those allocated in the bill of stability, to support the Campania Region, under the supervision of ANAC, in the work of definitive elimination of the plague of ecoballs. Yes, we certainly need to heal the infringement we have been in for years, but as it is built, the rule seems a way for the Premier to invoke to the Presidency the management of this game, which could also represent a way to play another one, the one that the Premier is starting, in Campania with President De Luca. These are two characters who always seem to recite the same litany: you will have nothing else but us. The other measures? These are heterogeneous and extemporaneous interventions. The contribution to the Municipality of Reggio Calabria, for example, that after more than a year from the end of the commission seems a sort of bestowal, a generic though legal bestowal, enriched by the aim of allowing that Municipality to return to democratic normality. Or look at the interventions for the outskirts: it seems to me objectively disproportionate the sum, equal to 100 million annual for the three years 2015-2017, to establish yet another fund, aimed at strengthening the national competitive activity and, even more emphatically, the development of competitive culture in the disadvantaged areas and peripheral urban areas, which should support the titanic effort to remove the social economic imbalances of those areas and increase urban security. I mean, it seems like an incredible measure, I don't know if it's because of ingenuity or intent. It's like wanting to hunt elephants with butterfly nets! Does the Commission realise what urban suburbs are like, and what and how many problems do they suffer in the post-modern and post-industrialised era? Or, instead, the government has decided a quick measure, which seems more suitable for a twentieth-century reading of the relationship between sport and society, better interpreted by the dictatorships of the last century, why engaged, more prosaically, to widen the area of consensus? Well, Mr President, as I said earlier, the real figure of the measure we are now debating, but it has a price, a burden that the Government imposes not on itself, but irresponsibly on the community. The total amount of the measures taken amounts to approximately EUR 1 billion over the three years, and I believe that there are a number of problems, both from the point of view of the correct identification of the necessary resources and of their adequate coverage. In other words, the resources available to cover the costs seem to me to be somewhat indeterminate and perhaps even inadequate. Needless to mention the many inconsistencies in coverage: the Government, with this decree-law, is scraping the barrel of savings that seem to be there, but of which this Parliament was unaware, to find resources for interventions neither urgent nor, much less, indifferent. Or rather, urgent they are, certainly, if seen with the government's short-sighted glasses, because they are a clumsy attempt to recreate that electoral consensus, which is going down, towards a majority that is no longer such, except in this House, certainly in the country. So, the government's scraping the barrel. An example is represented by the letter b), of paragraph 1, of article 17 of the decree-law, that previews the use of 6 million euros for 2015 deriving from the resources destined to the reduction of the tariff A2, that the citizens pay in the electric bill (incidentally, the tariff A2 regards the burdens for the safety of the nuclear and territorial compensations, today pairs to 7.03 percent of the burdens of system) and those resources - that, I repeat, are destined to reduce the cost of the electric bill of the citizens - derive from the widening of the audience of the subjects obliged to pay the so-called Robin tax. However, it is the case that the judgment of 11 February 2015 of the Constitutional Court declared the unconstitutionality of the Robin tax. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Di Maggio, I invite you to conclude. IN MAY (CoR). I'm finishing, Madam President. So, since February 12, 2015, this revenue has been lost. Finally, but it seems ployal to say, this measure that is lacking the urgency requirements, but that you will pass with yet another confidence, is a mini financial maneuver, which provides rules that were and could be discussed in the examination of the stability bill. Proporting them by decree-law is not only a slap in the face of opposition, but a slap in the face of your own parliamentary majority who, demeaned in its role, eats this soup or jumps out of the window. Beyond the window, however, there is the usual country, where - as I said - the future, the work and the sacrifices of millions of workers and millions of businesses are stolen. [[Applause from the CoR and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u19	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, in our view there are some problems with the decree-law under consideration. The first concerns the procedure used to deal with it. In the Commission we were told that we should have done so quickly, that the decree-law was urgent and that otherwise it would have expired: although it expires on 24 January 2016, it was absolutely necessary to approve it by the end of this year. In spite of everything, we have said: all right, let's examine it and, since there are rules within it that absolutely are not good, let's correct it. We have, therefore, tabled a number of amendments, but the answer has also been repeatedly no in the Commission. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Lai, who has made a real effort to deal with the substantive analysis of the amendments, but there was always a no from above: there is no time to go into more detail. Too bad, because the things to correct in this decree-law were many. Allow me to call it a "trade mark" because, Madam President, those who have the duty or rather the honour of being in the government should have the political foresight to actually resolve the problems of the citizens. But no: this system has been used to campaign. You found 800 million at the end of the year and how do you use them? So: 50 million there, 10 there, 100 right, 100 left. It's not okay! It is not a serious government, the one that applies this system. If you have $800 million, solve a serious problem like the exodus problem. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] What did the government do instead? He even stole - I use the real term - 400 million from the exodus fund, when several times we of the League asked the government how many resources there were; we invited him to solve this problem. And punctually we were told that there were no funds, that we were studying the problem and now, by chance, we arrive at the end of the year and the resources are there. And yet the government moves them and uses them for other issues; it puts them in another fund so that it can use them perhaps to make another election campaign. I am truly surprised that, in spite of constitutional dictates, this is not an organic decree-law on matter or an urgent decree. But it doesn't matter: who cares! The important thing is to please that audience from which you will then have an electoral gain. Mr President, it is absurd that we are still allocating money for waste in Campania. This is certainly a serious problem, but since we have been talking about it since before 2000, I expected something to be in it to talk about responsibility. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Is it possible that, 20 years later, this problem still exists and that funds still have to be allocated? Why have we not talked about responsibility? Moreover, it is the same situation that we are experiencing today with the question of banks, where there is absolutely no talk of responsibility. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I'm dealing with another matter. The Municipality of Reggio Calabria has already taken the funds, because it had the anticipation for the payment of debts, as well as many other municipalities. Why only Reggio Calabria is allowed not to return? This is discrimination against the other municipalities that have the same problems as Reggio Calabria. I do not say the Municipalities of the North, not the virtuous Municipalities, but there are also other Municipalities that have the same problems as Reggio Calabria. But no, only an ad hoc, specific intervention is envisaged. The same applies to 100 million data in the national civil service. In this case too, Renzi had already promised these funds, without thinking that in the meantime the same principle of civil service is being analysed in the Commission. It's being done here in the Senate, President. So why insert a rule here and there? Why say you're making a bill, that you're analyzing it? Anyway, that farsightedness I was talking about at first isn't there. The same reasoning applies also to sports facilities, which are primarily not the responsibility of the Government, are not of central but regional competence and on this point already in the past the Government has lost, having been condemned by the Constitutional Court because that matter was not within its competence. It has already happened in the past, it has already happened, but the Government, not content, does it again. That's because you have to give the money to the CONI. To do what? The government uses fine words saying that these sums serve to revive the outskirts of the municipalities, to solve the social problem that exists in the outskirts; but it is a pity that even the senators of the PD yesterday in general have declared that these funds serve for the candidacy of Rome 2024; they do not actually serve to build stadiums in the outskirts, because the expression "national competitive activity" refers to the big teams of Serie A, not to the small amateur youth societies, which would actually solve the social problem of the outskirts. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Finally, Madam President, we happened to find the usual amendment on the LSU in Calabria, which is allocated 50 million. I do not want to raise the LSU of Lombardy, Piedmont and Veneto, but those of Puglia, Basilicata. I wonder why we are talking only about the LSU of Calabria: every year we find this amendment [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Madam President, we cannot continue to act in this way and that is why we are going to vote firmly against the measure and we will absolutely never trust such a government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u22	Mr Barani (AL-A). Madam President, even our Group cannot trust the Government and would not have voted in favour of this measure if it had not been requested, because we consider it harmful. It's a bit like smoking. It's bad for your health. We tell you, then I don't know if you want to continue to enact this kind of decree-laws that are not structural but improvised, by amateurs, that serve little if not for nothing. We have always, with the responsibility we have, told you that we are dealing with structural problems, with real reforms, not with girls. It is the first time since time immemorial, in fact, that a fracture has been caused in the maneuver at the end of the year, in violation of the principles governing the budgetary procedures, whose precepts are constitutional, i.e. they cannot be exempted from ordinary laws and from different procedures. That this is not a mere reminder, but a clear laceration is demonstrated by the scale of the two maneuvers: the burden of the decree-law under consideration is € 765 million, to which the one brought by Article 13 must be added, worth € 400 million, for a total of € 1,165 million. If we consider that the value of the text of the stability bill, which must return to us at the beginning of next week and which is now in the other branch of Parliament, in its original wording was just over EUR 16,000 million, the changes made to the overall maneuver, not yet approved by Parliament, are almost 10% of the total, a percentage sufficient to prevent any overall vision. That's why we tell you that you are amateurs: you lack the overall vision, you lack, in football terms, the overall game. Go after the ball, that is, go after the money and distribute them in rain on the territory, but without an overview. From the regulatory point of view there are few articles that have legal autonomy and are those related to the waste of Campania, the Jubilee with the related safety problems and the Expo of Milan. All the others, 12 out of 17, deal with matters already foreseen in the Stability Act and associated with it; an overlap of rules that further feeds the legislative stratification in the name of greater opacity. Already paradoxical is the fact that Article 1 allocates 50 million for the reclamation of the Bagnoli-Coroglio area, an intervention already provided for by Decree-Law No 133 of 2014. This decree should also be read in relation to Article 15, which allocates an additional EUR 100 million to support the construction of sports facilities in urban suburbs, as well as in relation to Article 9 on the financing of airports. Decree-Law No. 133 of 2014, known as the release of Italy, was to represent - and we remind you - the expansionary phase of the Monti Government, that Government that has failed totally, from every point of view. After the hard care imposed by the containment maneuver, save Italy, it took almost a year, in front of the inertia of the Ministry of Infrastructure (yes, the Ministry of Infrastructure is inert and it is to be revised, because there is something wrong), to understand that those norms did not work and could not work. He confesses it candidly the report illustrated to the decree; go and read it. The explanatory report says that the red thread that binds all the provisions is also constituted by the will to use sums available on the 2015 budget, avoiding that they go into economics, in order to respond to requests for intervention however connected to the territory, or in terms of works, or in terms of garrison of the same racket. Where, on the other hand, the report silently and gently, it is in considering that those resources were the result of a financial maneuver that brought the Italian tax burden to unsustainable levels, resulting in an unprecedented fall in GDP. Well, those resources were not needed, since they have been unused all this time and today they are taken out of the hat to prevent them from going to economics, as the President of the Commission told us yesterday, Mr Tonini, wrong. What is disconcerting is that the remaining articles interfere with the subjects included in the Stability Act, which has not yet been finally approved. Since these rules come into force before the law of stability, there is a risk of a real short circuit, which makes it even more difficult to discuss the text of the law still not definitively fired by the Chambers. That's why we already told you yesterday, in general discussion, that you don't have to travel with the brake pulled if you don't want to go overheat the brakes and the engine and you don't want to grow. We have told you that growth cannot be as slow as hypophysial dwarfism, but it must be a true growth and must therefore be put in place all those measures necessary to truly grow. We grow with an overall vision and structural reforms; we grow with real interventions and when we have an overall vision of what is done and not with commercial laws: we could avoid this law. It is for this reason, Madam President, that my Group hopes that a glimmer of awareness will grow among all of us and above all in the Government. We hope, in particular, that the Commission will exit from the abolic state in which it has thrown itself into this decree-law and will do something without necessarily having to wait for Parliament to play an additional role and for the public administration to wake up. We hope that the Government will say, but above all it will do something not of the left, but of productive and that it will not behave like the Government Monti, that has vexed the Italians and then leave in the coffers of the State the money provided, that have not served anything and of which we could do without, which are now used for Calabria and Sardinia rather than for Sicily, Campania and Lombardy rather than for Veneto or Piedmont. We will continue to insist and invite the Government to get rid of that brake that comes from its left Dem and certain trade union organizations that see it as an Executive to send home and oppose at all costs, trying to restrain it with an incorrect game. The government is subject to this inhibitor brake and can't get rid of it. Until we see results, our vote can never be favorable and indeed we will continue to press the Government to promote measures to revive the South and eliminate unnecessary and unnecessary expenses of defensive medicine, trying to decriminalize the medical act, as well as measures to try to bring justice back to the right track, since criminality costs us from 15 to 20 billion a year, and to promote the made in, aspect on which yesterday I had the opportunity to put the attention, remembering the damage of 120 billion that we suffer. If you add up, you see that we have the resources to implement real and structural reforms. We therefore call on the Government to move in this direction. Until then, our vote will be absolutely against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u25	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we would have liked to have voted on the Article-by-Article measure, because we would probably have voted in favour of almost everyone. On the other hand, we are faced with a vote of confidence in the Government, which has a political and legislative extension very different from the vote on the individual measure. The issues dealt with in this measure are all sensitive and some are certainly also urgent. I am thinking, for example, of the interventions for the Jubilee and those concerning territorial continuity for Sardinia, which - I want to say to the representative of the Government - are not decisive, because this issue is resolved with the recognition of the state of islandity, which is an objective fact whose lack of recognition we consider detrimental. The recognition of the state of insularity would in fact solve at the root the problems in this respect and also in terms of the overall development of the Region. We would also have liked to vote in favour of the measures envisaged in the measure under consideration in the field of environmental reclamation and the solution of environmental problems with regard to the Campania Region. In the same way, we would have liked to vote in favour of the completion of the procedures for the stabilization of socially useful workers in Calabria and - I add - also of the other regions of the Mezzogiorno, for which there has been an interest on the part of the members of the Commission budget which has been translated into amendments, unfortunately not accepted by the Government. In other words, we would have liked to vote for most of the interventions planned, those to give refreshment to the situations of difficulties that we encounter in particular in the Mezzogiorno of Italy, in regions in full suffering such as Sardinia, Calabria, Campania and Sicily. We would also have liked to take a positive step to make the financial resources allocated - but a specific chapter should be opened on this - for the structures of the Expo and avoid waste, rather than for sports facilities in the urban outskirts. We cannot do this because, as has already been said, we are yet another vote of confidence, of this Government and of this legislature. When you remember that there are 44 votes of confidence expressed against this government, I wonder how it will be possible not to reach the end of the legislature: this is one of the "most trusted" governments in the history of the Republic! It is in fact an abuse of this instrument as well as of the instrument of the decree-law. I would like to remind you how many times the Heads of State, the highest authority also in charge of the government of our legal institutions, have called on governments not to abuse the decree of urgency, and to give Parliament the opportunity to carry out its full function. Well, I say this to the Government: the fracture that is being determined and aggravated between the powers of the State and, in particular, between the political powers of the State, that is, between the Government and Parliament, results in a distance between the citizen and politics, between the citizen and democratic institutions. It is a distance that all governments pay and this too will end up paying for it. It is a distance to be filled and not to be expanded and the unnecessary use of the decree of urgency, sometimes even overbearing, is politically wrong. I conclude by announcing, despite the consensus that we would have liked to express for most of the articles contained in this measure, the vote contrary to the confidence of this Government and it is precisely in the last part of my explanation of vote that there is a negative opinion against this Government. I wonder when the relative majority party will understand that abandoning itself to a systematic violation of the principles contained in our Constitution is a danger to itself. When will you understand? We hope you do it quickly. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u28	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Senators and Senators, I am in favour of the Group for Autonomies-PSI-MAIE, which clearly needs an argument and a brief analysis that goes to substantive and justify the vote in favour of the conversion of Decree-Law No 185 of 25 November 2015 on urgent measures for interventions in the territory. In the decree-law, obviously, there is a variety of initiatives and statements of quite strong positions, among which I would highlight only some, those that have a greater social impact and, even more, a greater impact of social ethical order as well as of an economic type. I refer in particular to Articles 1 and 2, Article 5, which deals with the subject of the Expo, Article 12 on civil service and Article 15 on sports facilities in urban suburbs. Articles 1 and 2 essentially refer to the grant of long-awaited works, always postponed, if not forgotten, to be carried out in the area of Bagnoli and the land of fires in Campania. Unfortunately, the representation that in recent years has given an extremely negative image to the Campania Region, has never found definitive answers, or exhaustive solutions and, obviously, has always ended with the postponement of measures that had a concrete implementation. Well, the commitment on the part of the Government - and of all of us in expressing our confidence - on the two issues means a definitive act, with concrete terms and measures, as regards environmental reclamation and urban regeneration, both for the territory of Bagnoli and for the land of fires. The ecoballs - which are for the truth (and is not a play on words) surely bales of waste, industrial or urban, but how ecological they are is not yet given to know - there deposited and that from 2000 to 2009 have become millions require urgent, immediate and extremely controlled intervention, as well as the decree-law prepares. It is no coincidence, unfortunately, that Italy undergoes infringement procedures that ended with a double conviction - a first sentence dates back to March 4, 2010 and another, more recent to July 16, 2015 - which provides a lump sum penalty of 20 million plus a further daily penalty of 120,000 euros and I believe that this, already in itself, implies the need to intervene very quickly. It commits itself, therefore (and here the passage is very important also regarding the timing, the urgency and the control by the Government), the President of the Campania Region to give rise to an extraordinary plan of interventions that includes in a precise way the disposal of the waste, the reclamation of the sites and the environmental redevelopment, as well as - where possible - the restoration of the state of the places and also - where possible - the eventual return of the areas held for rent or in other title. We could say that this can represent nothing but a continuation of an act of will, of a wish, on the part of the Government and on our part, yet it is not so and for a very simple reason. Within the framework of the decree-law there are extremely precise terms and, not by chance, the protocol stipulated by the National Anti-corruption Authority, also called ANAC, with the Campania Region applies, as regards the plan itself. In addition, the President of the Campania Region must prepare and implement, after the approval of the Regional Council, an operational deletion of interventions and, if this does not happen, will intervene the State with the exercise of substitute powers. These are elements of great punctuality for the removal of ecoballs to take place definitively and irreversibly. Otherwise, it would be a continuous delay, always to future times or to better times. Another sensitive topic is the one dealt with by Article 5 and with the provision aimed at promoting the valorization of the areas in which the Universal Exhibition of Milan 2015 has just ended. In this area there is a dual purpose, the first of which, with a clearly urgent nature, is to ensure immediately an adequate valorization of the site. This objective is enriched, to us it seems, with a further value, because it gives rise to a financial intervention of the State aimed at guaranteeing the initial contribution for a project that someone might call ambitious (but if you do not aspire to something great you do not reach anything) and that is to the realization of a technological scientific pole, in collaboration with the Italian Institute of Technology. I believe that this is an extremely positive aspect and can also represent a further driver for the development of research, in which there are different demands on the part of not only all of us, but also of the scientific community itself, to implement research and also to allow concretely researchers and intelligences, who normally find themselves expatriating after having trained in Italy, to return to their homeland or to find directly on the Italian territory a further development and a concrete realization of the educational paths undertaken. Of course someone might wonder: why the Italian Institute of Technology and not others? The dialectic and the diatribe on the subject to which to attribute this priority, this burden and also this honor, would have led to spend months, I would say years, in the choice of the excellent regarding the good and so on, without having concluded anything. I say this in the knowledge that indicating the collaboration of the Italian Institute of Technology does not mean - I want to emphasize it to my fellow senators - the exclusion of any other authoritative research institute that already exists in Italy, and in Italy of authoritative and accredited research institutes worldwide there are. To think today that research can be attributed, in the sense of monopoly, to a single institution or to a single group I believe it is a reflection without foundation because research develops in the interrelationship and collaboration between several institutions and groups, at national level and, even more, at international level. I would like to dedicate a further consideration to Article 12 of the Decree-Law, which has its ethical and social value; responding to different requirements for the protection of the territory in a social rather than security sense. In particular, the rule provides for urgent financial measures for national civil service interventions, with an increase in the National Civil Service Fund of EUR 100 million. I believe that this declination of Article 12 is, in the social sense, of great importance, because it gives the possibility to the civil service to be supported and accompanied in the important social role it plays. Madam President, if I may, I would like to make a final comment on Article 15, which refers to the implementation of sports facilities. There has also been a great deal of discussion about this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Romano. ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I shall conclude quickly, Madam President. Article 15 recalls the urgent need to encourage the establishment of sports facilities in urban suburbs. In the historical contingency of the last few months we know how abandoned urban suburbs that do not find a valorization can be forge and outbreak of situations of social distress that can also lead to other criticalities. Implementing the ability to practice sports, even under the control of the CONI, can be of great social importance. I would stop here and I would not like to abuse your willingness to vote in favour of the Autonomous, PSI and MAIE Group. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Susta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u31	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Madam President, I would like to state my thoughts on this decree-law which, I must say, makes good things by putting together what is apparently disconnected, but these are all things that our country needs in the end. There are certainly some acceptable and sensitive articles: I think of the Jubilee, which was certainly not decided by the majority party but by the Pontiff, and of the conversion of the Expo which, as the President of the Health Commission explained very well yesterday, is certainly positive. We see many "monsters" in our country abandoned to themselves and the conversion of something that surely risks becoming a monster in a pole that brings together research, university and industrial society, surely means proceeding in a direction in which the whole world is going. If we want to stimulate research, it is right that this area, instead of becoming abandoned or harboring endless discussions, becomes an important pole of research and aggregation. Then there is the stabilization of the socially useful work in Calabria. We are also talking about the land of fires, Bagnoli and ecoballs: an immense environmental damage, for which we pay infringements of 120,000 euros per day. I believe that having precise points of reference for resolving this problem and for the terms of disposal of these wastes is a step forward. We are also talking about the 100 million that are given for social service. We have received so many questions from young people who want to get closer to social service (seems to be 90,000), who cannot be satisfied with the lack of funding and see funding in this respect is certainly positive. For these reasons, we in the Italia dei Valori Group will vote in favour of this confidence.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u34	CHIAVAROLI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, the Group of the People's Area will vote with conviction for the confidence of the Government and today it is particularly committed to reaffirming confidence and solidarity also to Minister Boschi, who has been affected by personal attacks, in our view, absolutely unjustified. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD]] We will vote strongly for the confidence on this measure because, in our opinion, it repents all the determination that the Government has in wanting to take the country out of this difficult moment and from the crisis, resolving a series of emergencies and bringing the country back on the path of growth and recovery. With this decree-law the Government decides to use resources available for the year 2015 that otherwise would have remained unused, and to use them to resolve first some emergencies, for example by further financing the National Emergency Fund with 50 million euros and intervening mainly on the South. In this decree, in fact, very important measures are foreseen for Campania, to which 50 million are allocated for the reclamation and urban regeneration of Bagnoli, and 150 million for the extraordinary plan of interventions for the disposal, the reclamation, the environmental redevelopment and the restoration of the state of the places following the emergency waste 2000-2009. In addition, there are important interventions for Calabria: EUR 10 million for the Municipality of Reggio Calabria and an intervention, which has been approved in the Commission and which we consider equally important, of EUR 50 million for the socially useful workers of Calabria, hoping for a definitive resolution of this problem. There are also important interventions that concern two major events of global scope: one is the Expo, which has affected our country, and the other is the Jubilee, which is the challenge we are facing right now. The intervention on Expo devotes resources to the valorization of that area, in particular for a project of the Italian Institute of Technology. Article 6, on the Jubilee, allocates approximately 160 million euros to the Fund for the realization of jubilee interventions. In particular, resources are allocated to the Region for railway services and health services. In addition, security is being invested, with an additional 1,500 units of military personnel from the Safe Roads project dedicated to sensitive objectives. The Jubilee is an extraordinary occasion and we believe that with this intervention our country will live up to this event, just as it was for Expo, which was an extraordinary success, as it is before everyone's eyes. The measure also contains social measures, which we strongly support. I am referring to intervention on public housing, in which EUR 25 million is earmarked for the rehabilitation of buildings and the prevention of illegal employment. I am referring to the Fund for Sport in the disadvantaged and peripheral areas, to which we allocate EUR 100 million for sports facilities located in the outskirts of our cities. We believe that through sport we can intervene in the recovery of the discomfort and degradation of our cities and therefore we consider this also a very important intervention. As well as the intervention in favour of the national civil service, to which are allocated an additional 100 million euros, that will allow many children to have a job in activities of social utility. Social shock absorbers are refinanced by way of derogation and we also invest in cultural and promotional interventions, which we consider equally important compared to others with emerging and social aims. We invest, in fact, in Made in Italy and in cinema. For all the reasons set out, therefore, the People's Area Group will vote with conviction today to trust the Government and will continue to support it in the incessant, tireless and determined activity that it is carrying out in order to bring our country towards a better future. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u37	TAVERNA (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my explanation of vote is obviously contrary to the confidence of this Government; it is not because we do not trust this Government, regardless of the measure we are dealing with. We don't trust the ministers who make up this government. We do not trust Minister Poletti, who in two years has destroyed forty years of workers' rights. We don't trust Minister Giannini, who destroyed public school. We do not trust Minister Lorenzin, who is turning public health into private health. We do not trust Minister Alfano: I have heard of money earmarked for security. Security in Rome? Security in Italy? We have people walking around without ever being recognized. We had planes parked, which we didn't know existed. We had a bunch of vandals that destroyed our cultural heritage. We do not trust President Renzi, who we do not know by whom he is commanded, by whom he is caught in order to ensure that this country is reduced to what is before everyone's eyes. We do not trust Minister Boschi, who here all stand to defend: it is the same Minister who is destroying our Constitution and it is the same Minister who, in some way, guaranteed those who put the money in the Etruria Bank, with his goodness and that of his father, brother and cousin. It's strange that Grandpa wasn't on the board too: I don't know if he's alive, but there probably would have been a place for him too. We do not trust and we will not vote for the confidence that is demanded every time, of a Parliament that no longer makes sense. Here we have seen a - forgive me - fake opposition, which at the moment when it could have voted on the distrust of this Government, through the motion of distrust of Minister Boschi, has again held the majority. A demeaned majority: we listen to you, in fact, when you pass through the corridors, when you are not satisfied with the action of this Government, when you are forced to approve and vote on measures of which you are not convinced first. I do not trust the words of Senator Tonini, who comes here to tell us that, at the end of the year, we have a billion euros that we have not been able to allocate and consider this circumstance as a medal for value. No, this is called incompetence! We have not been able to use this billion euro, perhaps to solve one of the great problems that is that of the exodus, but we have snatched the money destined to them to make twelve marches, which will probably serve for the next election campaign. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is how this majority is ruling the country. This is the way in which every time we ask for trust, not in Parliament, but in a group of people who, in order to ensure that they perhaps reach the end of the parliamentary term or perhaps the election in the next one, voted for anything and today will vote for the umpteenth march, made by Prime Minister Renzi to a number of voters. Let's talk about the EUR 200 million for the Jubilee: I remember the initial slogans. Forgive me if I speak of the Jubilee, but Rome is so badly reduced, because of a senseless management! Where's Senator Stefano Esposito? You have been able to incorporate in the law of stability the rehabilitation of a whole series of mafia actions related to the management of the beaches, postponing everything to 2016. You should be ashamed, because this money, perhaps, could have served something. Instead, where did we put them? We have allocated EUR 200 million for the Jubilee. It is not that it was known yesterday that we should have allocated resources to allow Rome to face an important event such as that of the Jubilee by approving an urgent measure, it was known for a long time; but until the Government of Rome there was Ignazio Marino and you were tired of having a fig leaf, which did not guarantee total impunity for everything that the Democratic Party managed to do to this city, the 200 million euros did not come out. First, the city was stationed. Then you pull out some crumbs, which I sincerely believe, at most, as a thread of compensation for the Romans, who are those who pay the highest taxes in Italy. Everything you do today, as a matter of urgency, to guarantee an event, is due to a city like Rome and is due to the Romans. EUR 50 million is allocated to Bagnoli, but we do not know how they will be used. You fill your mouth with money given to the left and right. 10 million euros are allocated to Reggio Calabria. I have nothing against Reggio Calabria, but the other cities of Italy do not deserve the same? Is it because Reggio Calabria still has a Democratic Party administration? They should not be given the money where they are needed, but where do we still have someone who can administer them criminally, as the Democratic Party has shown to administer all cities? [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u38	Senator, I recommend language.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u39	TAVERNA (M5S). Forgive me, President, but I am talking about a matter... There's the Republic's attorney to file a complaint, and you know it. [[Comments of Senators Santangelo and Santini.]] Shut up! Continue, Senator ( [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] Senator Santangelo, sit down. Please, Senator Taverna, finish. I've already told Senator Santini, too. TAVERNA (M5S). The criminal management of many Democratic Party administrators is at the courthouse in several cities of Italy, and it is not I who have to prove anything, it is you who must demonstrate to the Italians where all the money that was to be used for the population and not for your dirty interests have gone. [[Comments from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the PD Group]] So don't tell me to prove to who, rather, you show how you are ruling this country; prove it to the people who were outside the Etruria Bank, to the workers who were out on the streets, to the teachers, to the doctors. They were out here. [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]] They've all been out here for the last two years. You have proved that you are not able to rule; that is the only thing you have been able to prove. SANTANGELO (M5S). Is this right, President? TAVERNA (M5S). Returning to the provision and to your unjust actions, there was talk of ethics and morals. Except that you would need a cycle of private lessons on ethics and morals before you could talk about it. [[Comments from the PD Group),]] but with respect to this Jubilee announced by Pope Francis... [[Protests from the PD Group. Recalls of the President]] Forgive me, President, what do they expect? I am a citizen, I see my country destroyed and these are also commenting? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please continue. The House must ensure silence in order to allow each senator to make his or her speech. Go ahead, Senator Taverna, and finish your surgery. TAVERNA (M5S). I'm gonna go ahead and say what I think I'm gonna end when I'm done with my time. What I think I want to say, given that I have the opportunity, if we are still in democracy, because that too is to be seen. On the other hand, one does not enter a dictatorship because the rules have changed, but when the existing rules are not respected. This is what you have done: here you do not respect the rules. Do we want to talk about why the urgency of this decree-law for the life of this Government has been decreed? Is it homogeneous? Is it really urgent? Didn't you know how Bagnoli was doing? Didn't you know there was the Jubilee? You know nothing, except when it is time to proceed urgently and give a billion, which you have not been able to allocate - when we asked for it - to much more serious and important matters. You have put the question of trust on this provision; you will do the same about the law of stability. You couldn't do that about constitutional reform; you tried it in every way, but we didn't let you... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Yes, you have tried in every way, but we have not allowed it; just as we will not allow you to continue to govern this country in this way, because together with us there is a people out there who is tired, who has noticed who you are, who hears you speak - this was written to me, because you are funny - of the future of the left in Italy, of the minority of the PD, of the conservative wing of the PD, of the Catholic, of the secular, of the Renziani, of the former more moderate communists (who then returned more communists than before). That's what you can talk about. We want to talk about a new country, a country managed democratically by a Parliament that can still be called such. We want to talk about a trust that we will not give you because you do not deserve it and that even the Italians will have the opportunity - if you will allow us to go to the vote - to prove that they have taken you away already for some time. But you are afraid to go and vote to know what the reality is. Let's continue, gentlemen: the show must go on, so much you have a clown who governs you and you are only the creators of a dirty game. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u42	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, representatives of the Government, colleagues, we are at the 42nd Decree-Law of the Renzi Government. Many have said this, but I also want to reiterate it: the decree-law, by express constitutional precept, must be founded, for its legitimacy, on requirements of necessity and urgency. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, it should be noted that both requirements are totally absent. I would like to remind everyone today of the President of the Republic's inauguration speech. On that day, President Mattarella warned the Government about the need for moderate use of the decree of urgency and said in summary: I'll be discreet referee if the players are correct. I really hope that President Mattarella can, from the near future, be less discreet and more active referee so that the government respects the rules of the game. It is also worth remembering that the Rules of Procedure of the Senate clearly state that during the budgetary session no other expenditure measures can be scheduled in the Commission or in the Chamber. It is evident that the decree-law contains a rainy distribution of resources, which particularly concerns territories governed by the Democratic Party. This is even more serious, as the President-in-Office of the Council coincides with the secretary of the major party of government and, in a season when everyone fills his mouth with transparency, every day it becomes more evident the inopportunity to combine the two roles. However, let us look at this measure. Already under the title " Urgent measures for interventions in the territory" a centralizing anxiety by the Government is expressed. It is the confirmation of a centralizing wave that begins from the unfinished abolition of the Provinces, served above all to assign the two thirds of the presidencies of these agencies to the center-left, to move to the long list of competences reduced to the Regions by the constitutional bill and to conclude with the abolition of the power of taxation of the Municipalities on the house. Constant government action is an endless list of cuts made through the reduction of spending by local authorities, which did not pay a similar reduction in central expenditure. Therefore, in essence, first we cut the transfers to the territories in a general way and then we intervene with a decree-law that finances only some, in a totally discretionary way. The measure under consideration continues in the wake of the wrong Renzi government's economic policy choices that have succeeded in the very difficult task of mortifying that although weak cyclical growth, given to us by a series of positive exogenous variables that we have repeatedly mentioned in this House. There is no economic school, nor is there any practice used in other countries. The latest data on GDP growth (also revised downwards) show that the manoeuvres of the last two years have had no multiplier effect on the growth of gross domestic product, on the contrary. The government in office has carried out mixed up, incomplete and above all unfair dossiers and the continuous interventions on the same subjects are confirmation of this. These are unfair measures such as the distribution of resources carried out by the decree-law on the agenda, which takes place close to the approval of the 2016 Stability Act, with rules that still use 2015 funds and reverb their effects on 2016. It must be said that the city of Rome is also among the beneficiaries of the rain of public money. On the other hand, the pursuit that the Democratic Party will have to make in the Capital in order to recover the lost consents must be corroborated with appropriations of money in rain, such as those foreseen for the Jubilee, which should serve - at least hopefully - to recover the enormous gap created between the citizens of the eternal city and the PD. In the same way, the funds allocated to Expo seem to be bestowed precisely to support the probable candidacy as mayor of Milan of the former commissioner for the international event. On the substance of the measure, as I said at the beginning, it remains difficult to identify a single intervention that can be defined as truly urgent. Certainly not those for the Campania Region, also benefiting from enormous resources in order to support the action of the neo-governor. Among other things, some measures taken are intertwined with various provisions currently under discussion in the Chamber of Deputies within the Stability Act for 2016. However, continuing in the examination of the heterogeneity of the measure, we find funds for emergencies approached to Made in Italy, funds for territorial continuity and financial spaces to municipalities, funds for exodati and cinema. Just as in the law of stability, the logic - we saw it at first reading and we have confirmed it now during the examination of the House - was to create a huge law tip for use and consumption of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Bulgarelli]] The opposition proposals are not taken into account. The logic behind these measures is to create rules to support the Democratic Party's action in the government, in view of the elections in the spring and as if the referendum should already be supported in the autumn. The use of sums that, if not used in 2015, would have gone to economics goes in the opposite logic to that of a serious and necessary revision of public expenditure because, made the sum of the funds allocated by the various items of expenditure of the measure, you reach a figure that exceeds 1,100 million. In short, it is more than a billion compared to a budget maneuver made in deficit for more than 14 billion; a maneuver made with money that could have been used for structural interventions and not extemporaneous and uneven like those envisaged by the decree-law. I heard someone from the majority earlier who said that with these maneuvers we are going to support the development of the country. We obviously think differently. In fact, it is clear that this way of proceeding does not help the country at all to engage the recovery. And the data on this "zero comma" on which every action of the Renzi Government is held, starting from the growth of GDP (with data still to be verified in the light of the latest inflation surveys), clearly demonstrate this. These are data that do not help the trust of those who have to invest and who do not trust a country where even some banks deceive customers with their financial products. In the light of the considerations set out above, the Group of Forza Italia, expressing its opinion contrary to this decree-law, cannot give confidence to this Government, which proves itself day after day unable to govern the country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u45	SANTINI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in announcing the vote in favour of the question of confidence put by the Government on this measure, I want to express first of all full confidence and support to Minister Boschi, who has been subjected to unfounded and instrumental personal and political attacks in recent days. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] The decree-law at our examination is adopted by the Government to deal with measures of necessity and urgency, first of all to ensure the performance of the Jubilee in a situation of full mobility and security of the participants. It also contains measures of a financial nature for territorial areas in critical situations and carries out other sectoral interventions, in particular in the field of infrastructure and transport and in the social and employment fields, the need and urgency of which are in the eyes of all. During the examination in the Budget Commission the decree was supplemented with the addition of additional interventions, with the contribution also of the opposition. I quote one, for example, which certainly cannot be accused of serving the territories administered by the Democratic Party: the extension for 2016 of the service contract for Trenitalia, which otherwise would not have provided the service to all Italian citizens. Then there are measures for the security and defence sector, the release of resources for floods in Sardinia and the financing of social shock absorbers, as we have already said. Overall, this is a measure that addresses a set of issues (this is true), some of which remained unresolved during 2015 and to which the Government responded using the resources available in the 2015 budget, which otherwise - as we all know - would have ended up among the unused funds. I want to make it clear that here is the key to reading that holds this decree-law together. This is not a tip, as has been said in this House by some opposition senators, but a measure - let us think about it for a moment, ladies and gentlemen - which represents an important innovation in the field of public accounting, because it anticipates in fact what the future methods of cash management will be. We are going from the budgets to the budgets to the budgets for cash, precisely to ensure that the resources allocated are used quickly, effectively and in conjunction with the measures for which they are allocated. In fact, in order to find these appropriations, the Government noted, during the current year, that resources initially placed in the budget were not committed for various reasons; therefore it has rightly used these resources in the various areas in which they were available, in order to cope with the most urgent interventions in those areas where they were needed. This seems to me a criterion of good administration, (I tell Senator Taverna without any acrimony), of which we are not ashamed and for which we are not liable to be denounced as criminals. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Words have meaning, and I'm begging Senator Taverna, if she thinks we're delinquents, to file a complaint immediately. If she does not, she is at least one who speaks at random and not with well-founded arguments. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Having said that, I think it is right to understand whether the interventions that are financed by this decree-law are important and useful to the country. I quote two episodes quickly. I believe that mobility, security, decorum of the city, transport services also with the periphery and the guarantee of health services during the Jubilee are all necessary, urgent and important measures, worthy of a country that wants to be within this national and international context. I don't think there are any other answers. In the same way, always with reference to the Jubilee, I believe that the prediction of an additional military contingent of 1,500 people is an intervention that we should all greet in a strong way because it will help to face the new problems that have arisen - these yes - unexpectedly after 13 November. If not, I'd say we live in another world. I would also like to focus on the Expo. Our country has an enviable record: every time an event is organized, five years later we realize that the areas used have ended in degradation and abandonment. If the Government invests in a precise and specific way (with a range of qualitative intervention, high, innovation and ability to create new work and investment) in these areas with speed and immediacy, on the wave of the success of the Expo, it makes an important service to the country. Again, we talk almost with irony - I also tell colleagues of the other political forces who ruled the moment in which the drama matured - about the story of Bagnoli; trying to solve it now, certainly with many years of delay, is another service that is done to the country and not, as they say, a marchetta or a tip [[Applause from Senator Scalia]] Let us remember that the failure to move ecoballs has already led to the payment of a double penalty by the European Union, as well as the payment of heavy economic sanctions. Let me now turn to another theme, addressing Senator Taverna with great willingness to dialogue: you have to read the papers before you speak. The resources not used for exodates, with one, two, three safeguards already closed (I remember that in total these operations were seven) were not used, as you say, for tips. These resources were all used, up to the last figure, to finance social shock absorbers by way of derogation, thus giving refreshment to those workers who lost their jobs and who were unfortunately not covered by social shock absorbers. This is written in the decree-law and must be read before speaking. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini.]] 11:03 a.m. (Saints follow) Among the other measures contained in the measure, we point out, as already mentioned, the immediate intervention to support Made in Italy. As you know, Italian brands are subject to international attacks, which must be faced because they cause difficulties for our country. I would also like to mention the issues of careless housing, on which action is taken to prevent them from deteriorating, and the urban and territorial peripheries that are being safeguarded. There are also other noteworthy speeches, but I do not mention them because of time. In conclusion, this is a useful measure, which has been improved during the examination in the Commission in the Senate and which has seen a wide participation of the majority and opposition groups. With it, a contribution is made to solving real criticalities and emergencies of the country that would otherwise have remained unanswered and which is dealt with in full compliance with the accounting law, with an innovative initiative that affects both the capacity and the speed of public spending. For all these reasons, I am voting on behalf of the Democratic Party Group in favour of the question of trust raised by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u47	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u48	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would also like to thank you for the fact that we are moving to the Group, but we are still part of the People's Area on bureaucratic issues, so I must speak out against this measure. I have been the Minister for Relations with Parliament for five years, and for four years I have been Undersecretary, and I know what that means when the governments of which I was a member came to the Quirinale with such measures. If Gianni Letta had presented himself with such a measure he would not have even entered the door, in the sense that the rigor with which, rightly, President Napolitano had fought the omnibus measures was such that it would certainly have been applied also on a measure whose only logic is intervention in the territory. It is clear that they are interventions made in Italy, but they bring together cinema, national civil service, national emergency, security, Made in Italy and CONI. It is an omnibus measure totally out of the logic of the Constitution and the rules that were valid for other governments. I would like to understand why these rules do not apply to these governments. If this is the case, as my fellow Members have said, Parliament is simply deleted: it no longer exists. I remind my colleagues on the left that the famous Fini-Giovanardi drug law was fiercely contested by them because, although the title was about the Turin Olympics and the rules on drugs, the fact that there were two arguments in that measure (the Olympics and the narcotics) had provoked furious reactions due to the uneven content. Here there are 18 different contents: there is all the human scibile and it has been explained that it is legitimate and opportune for a government to bypass Parliament and strategically invest all resources with decree-law. Some have spoken of investment for party reasons and others to cope with particular situations. You understand that we are in a situation in which a part of the Italian political world can afford what another party, if it wins the elections, cannot afford because the latter rules are applied. It seems to me that a system that works with double standards and with this game of the parties - for which what first causes outrage and is impossible then becomes virtuous - does not go on, because democracy does not work that way. That is why we will not be voting in favour of the issue of trust. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u49	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,800, tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 185 of 25 November 2015, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Bruni is drawn by lot). They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Bubbico, Carraro, Giannini, Olivero, Pizzetti, Rossi Luciano, Sacconi and Schifani. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Bruni. SAGGESE, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Battista, Bencini, Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Cassano, Casson, Chivaroli, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Conte, Corsini, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Filippin, Fincchiaro, Finsore, Formigoni, Esposito, Esposito Stefano Fabbari, Fasiolo, Fattorini, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippi, Fincchiaro, Finsore, Fornigoni, Forninario, Fiero, Fevero, Fevero, Fevero, Fevero, Fevero, Feverio, Fevero, Fevero, Fevero, Feverio, Feverio, Feveriori, Feveriori, Feveriori, Fevers, Fever, Fever, Fever, Fever, Fever The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amoruso, Aracri, Arrigoni, Augello Barani, Barozzino, Bellot, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Blundo, Bocca, Boccardi, Bottici, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Caliendo, Candiani, Cappelletti, Cardiello, Carraro, Casaletto, Castaldi, Catalfo, Centinario, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolilino, Cioffi, Comaroli, Compagna, Compagnone, Consiglio, Cotti, Crimi, Crosio D'Alì, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, De Cristofaro, De Petris, Giovanardi, Giovanardi, Giuro Girotto, Divina, Donno Mardrizzi Falanga, Fasano, Fattori, Floris Gaetti, Gasparri, Ghi, Gibino, Giovani, Giovani, Giovanardini, Giovanardini, Giovanardi, Girdi, Girdi, Girio, Girio, Girio, Girio, Girio, Girio, Girio, Girio, Girio, Divino, Divio PRESIDENT. - The debate is We note that Senator Sibilia, although he is present in the Chamber, does not take part in the vote. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,800, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 185 of 25 November 2015, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 277 Senators voting 275 Majority 138 Favorables 160 Contrars 115]] The Senate approves. It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 185.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u52	Matteoli (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, following the consultation of all the parliamentary groups, I would ask you, in my capacity as President of the Commission, to suspend the work of this House in order to allow the Commission to be convened so that the rapporteur can report to the House this afternoon on the draft RAI reform law and continue with the examination of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u53	I therefore suspend the sitting until 2.30 p.m. to allow public works to be convened by the Commission. (The sitting was suspended at 11.52 a.m. and resumed at 2.35 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u54	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1880-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Ranucci, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the reform of the RAI and the public broadcasting service returns to the agenda of the Senate Assembly after consideration by the House of Deputies. The debate in the other branch of Parliament confirmed its overall approach, aimed mainly at intervening on the governance of society with the dual objective of making it more efficient and more autonomous from political conditioning and thus enhancing its social function as a public service. The changes and additions made by the House, which were also shared by the 8th Senate Commission which examined the measure in the referee without adopting any further amendments - and allow me, Mr President, to thank both the President of the Commission and my colleagues, who today voted on the amendments and allowed this measure to have its rapporteur in the Chamber - are mainly concerned with the extension of the content of the new plan for transparency and business communication, the functions and responsibilities of the Director-General during the first implementation of the legislation introduced, as well as the rules on contracts concluded by the RAI and the companies that it has fully participated in. The text consists of five articles, and I shall concentrate on the changes made by the House of Deputies. With regard to Article 1, which relates to Article 45 of the single text of audiovisual and radio media services, in relation to the discipline of the national contract for the performance of the public service and to the provisions on the premises which carry out that service in the territories where linguistic minorities are present, the amendments made are aimed at making the text more effective and transparent. In relation to Article 2, which deals with Article 49 of the single text in order to outline the new governance framework of the RAI, the rules on the composition of the Management Board as well as the requirements for the appointment of advisers and their modalities and procedures have basically been confirmed. It should be noted that in the new paragraph 7 of Article 49 it has been specified that the revocation of the members of the board of directors, deliberated by the assembly, becomes effective following a favourable assessment by the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of the broadcasting services while, in paragraph 8 of the same Article 49, the deadline within which the appointment of the new members or of the president in the event of resignation, impediment or revocation is extended from thirty to ninety days following the formal date of communication. With reference then to the managing director, whose functions are regulated in the new paragraphs from 10 to 12 of article 49 of the single text, it is evident that the provision relative to the management power of the staff has been integrated, previewing that the managing director, in addition to appointing the managers of the first level, can assume, appoint, promote and establish the company position of the other executives, as well as, on proposal of the directors of the magazine and in respect of the contract of journalistic work, of the other journalists. In confirming the power of the CEO to sign the company's acts and contracts related to the management of the company, compared to the text approved at first reading by the Senate, the obligation to submit to the Board of Directors the acts and contracts of strategic nature, as well as the acts and contracts that amount to more than 10 million euros has been clarified. As mentioned above, the content of the new plan for transparency and corporate communication, which the CEO proposes for approval to the Board of Directors, has been significantly integrated during the examination at the other branch of Parliament. Among the information to be made available to users, also through the publication on the company's website, were in fact included the curricula and gross compensation received by the members of the administrative and control bodies, as well as by the managers of every level, and in any case by the subjects, other than the holders of contracts of an artistic nature, who receive an annual all-inclusive economic treatment at the expense of the company equal to or greater than 200,000 euros. The transparency and information requirements introduced also relate to the criteria for recruitment of staff and the assignment of posts to external collaborators and related expenses, as well as to the criteria and procedures for the award of contracts referred to in Article 49-b below. Finally, it should be noted that in the new paragraph 12-b, which is without prejudice to the functions of the Parliamentary Supervisory Committee, the obligation for the Management Board to hand over to that body the list of persons invited, as well as participants, to the broadcasts has been abolished. Article 3 introduces new articles after Article 49 of the single text on the media, in relation to RAI's management activity. In particular, Article 49-a deals with the liability of RAI bodies (and no longer with the participating companies as in the text approved by the Senate) and contains rules on the obligations to publish information on the assignments conferred by the company. It is provided that the managing director shall ensure timely publication and updating, at least annually, of the data and information provided for in the plan for transparency and corporate communication, and it is established that the non-compliance with those obligations constitutes a possible cause of liability for damage to the company's image and is however assessed for the purpose of payment of the ancillary or result remuneration, where provided for. The managing director shall not be liable for such non-compliance if he proves that the same has been caused by a cause which is not attributable to him. The scope of the new Article 49-b, which regulated the contracts concluded by the RAI, was extended to the text approved by the Senate. It is therefore envisaged to exclude from the application of the Code of Public Contracts for contracts relating to the purchase, development, production or co-production of television programmes and audiovisual works and their acquisition of broadcasting time, concluded by both RAI and the companies which it has fully participated in. For contracts involving works, services and supplies of less than the thresholds of Community importance, the exclusion from the procedural obligations laid down in the Code shall apply only where the contracts are related, related or functional to the above-mentioned contracts. It is also specified that the custody of contracts under threshold must in any case be carried out in accordance with the principles of affordability, effectiveness, impartiality, equal treatment, transparency and proportionality. Finally, it has been established that, in the first application, the plan for transparency and corporate communication is approved by the Board of Directors within one hundred and twenty days from the date of entry into force of the law and the data and information provided therein are published within the next sixty days. In Article 4 of the draft law, which contains the repeals and the delegation to the Government for the regulatory reorganization of the sector, no major changes have been made, while some additions are to be reported in Article 5, relating to the transitional and final provisions. In particular, he intervened on the transitional powers of the Director-General, providing that, in the first phase of application and until the first renewal of the Board of Directors after the date of entry into force of the measure under consideration, he exercises, in addition to the powers that are due to him on the basis of the statutes of the company, also the powers and tasks entrusted to the managing director by the new paragraph 10 of Article 49 of the single text. Until the first renewal of the Board, it is also established that the provisions relating to the CEO introduced by Article 49-a of Article 3 of the draft law in question apply to the Director-General. In view of the granting of the public radio, television and multimedia service, the Ministry of Economic Development is then entrusted with the task of launching a public consultation on the obligations of the service, ensuring the widest participation. Finally, the Minister for Economic Development is required to forward to the Parliamentary Supervisory Committee, in order to express his opinion, the draft service contract with the public radio, television and multimedia service concessionary company at least six months before the expiry of the current contract. In the first application, the schedule of service contract must be transmitted within six months of the custody of the concession following the expiry referred to in Article 49, paragraph 1, of the single text, fixed on May 6, 2016. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u56	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Stefani to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u57	Mr President, we have proposed the question of a preliminary ruling to raise questions and concerns about the draft law under consideration. First of all, we have found that there is no provision in the measure for the possibility of having a representative of consumer associations or, at least, of the Authority responsible for communication within the institution. We believe that, in any case, the participation of citizens must be an absolute right, which precisely establishes popular sovereignty, and also a right itself, as citizens, to participate. The European Union itself, in a number of measures, has provided for the absolute need to ensure the participation of citizens, also in order to ensure absolute transparency of the activity. Let us remember the European Charter of Human Rights in the city or the Fuerteventura agenda on the development of democratic citizenship and responsible leadership at local level. In our opinion it is unconstitutional not to respect this principle, bearing in mind then that in other European countries it is always - or often - planned a supervisory body designated to represent own the interests of society in general and to control the activity, especially in a field like that of telecommunications. We recall, in particular, what the constitutionalist Enzo Cheli himself expressed at the hearing. He himself raised strong doubts about constitutionality about what have been identified as the criteria of the investiture of corporate leadership. In fact, as we have pointed out several times with regard to this provision, four of the seven advisors and the managing director are of nomination of majority area or however governmental. It becomes clear that, if a supervisory body is the issuing of a majority, we come to affect what can be the equality that we would like to guarantee through the television instrument. According to the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 226 of 1974, Cheli recalled that corporate summits should not be appointed in such a way as to constitute the expression of executive power. In our opinion, the RAI, considering that it is also a concessionaire of a public service, must be a guarantee of absolute pluralism and not become the "TeleRenzi" that is feared to be [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group).]] Gentlemen, we are talking about extremely sensitive and serious issues. A few decades ago in Italy there was talk of a Ministry of Propaganda. Propaganda is something sneaky and cannot always be highlighted. What our Constitution wants to ensure, in Article 21, is not only a right of information: we have the right to express and inform, but above all we have a right to information, to be properly informed about what is happening in our country. And this is the only real instrument of democracy, because the choices of the citizen are healthy when he is fully aware of what he is doing. But if you do not know what happens in your country, any choice can be diverted - forgive me the expression - engraved and, unfortunately, even forced. Among other things, we believe that there may also be constitutional problems in relation to Article 41 of the Constitution with regard to a technical issue. There is in fact the exclusion from the scope of the legislative decree n. 163 of 2006, in the matter of the confidence of the works of services and supplies concluded from the RAI. We would also point out that Article 22 of the Procurement Code itself provides for a form of exclusion of the scope of the Code, but only for certain individual sectors. And we believe that exclusion should simply be limited to these and not affect an entire sector, as we want to do. For this reason, our doubts, on which we continue to insist, are mainly about the managerial aspect. Let us be honest: the citizen believes that everything that is said on television is absolute truth. It is difficult to maintain a critical attitude, the development of which should be our goal: I am referring to the citizen's critical capacity to understand what is said and discriminate against what is true or false and what can simply be an opinion. We must therefore act with particular attention, and for this reason we have proposed the question I have just referred to, in order to emphasise this particularity in particular. We therefore call for the draft law not to be examined, for the reasons we have just expressed. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u58	We greet the students and students of the Liceo classico, linguistico e delle scienze umani "Publio Virgilio Marone" of Meta, in the province of Naples, who are following our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u59	Mr President, we wanted to present the question of constitutionality again in this House, because certainly the issues and the serious remarks we had made at the first reading here in the Senate have certainly not been overcome by reading the provision in the House of Deputies. In particular, Article 2 of the reform of the RAI and the public service radio and television provides, precisely, a new discipline of the governance of the RAI, with a very clear and clear regression compared to the very critical norms that we have fought, however. In fact, the principle of independence is fundamentally violated, in particular with the modification of the mode of appointment of the President and, above all, of the CEO, who is placed at the head of the shareholders' meeting, and therefore at the head of the Government, which sees much expanded its powers. I remember that the shareholders' meeting makes exclusive reference to the Government, being the share share with total public participation, that is, the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The six-sevenths of the board of directors are appointed directly by government or by the majority of government. And the combination between this mode of appointment and the electoral law, which you have approved, the so-called Italicum, which provides an abnormal majority prize for the composition of a single Chamber, determines an absolute control by the Government pro tempore on the public radio and television service. The violation of the principle of independence and pluralism of information - evident in the establishment of this bill - leads as an obvious consequence to the violation of constitutionally guaranteed principles, and to the violation - absolutely clear and equally obvious - of the constraints arising from Community law and international obligations. It is therefore in breach of Article 21 of the Constitution, which states the right of information, and that in fact it was the constitutionalisation of the fundamental principle of pluralism and free and independent information (see the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 826 of 1988). Article 10 of the Convention on Human Rights, which deals with freedom of information and has been the subject of interpretations and considerations by bodies of the Council of Europe, which states, among the main requirements which should include legislation relating to the broadcasting service, the independence of information from political power, especially in the choice of governance of government bodies, is also infringed. And there are many resolutions adopted by the Council of Europe which clearly state that one of the principles that qualifies and justifies the public broadcasting service is its independence from the Government and other operators. The violation of this principle of independence, which the European bodies themselves considered as one of the elements that qualify the public service of a country in the ranking of freedom of information, places Italy in a virtually unique position in the European panorama. In fact, I do not think there is any other democratic country - as is known, only Bulgaria is referred to, but the speech is a little different - in which the public radio and television service is under the direct control of the Government. I would like to point out that the first paragraph of Article 117 of the Constitution, which gives legislative power to the State in respect of the Constitution, as well as the constraints arising from Community law and international obligations, stipulates that compliance with international conventions, including those I have mentioned, is a constituent element of constitutional principles. The Constitutional Court, then, has always expressed very clear opinions in its judgments, in particular in No 225 of 1974 and No 284 of 2002, establishing that the governing bodies of the public service broadcasting concessionary cannot be exclusive or prevalent expression of the executive power and that, therefore, the Government should remain outside the powers of appointment and direction of the RAI in an exclusive and predominant manner. Precisely this principle, enshrined in the above-mentioned judgments, is clearly violated in the anticipation of Article 2 of the reform, which provides for the creation of a de facto CEO issuing and appointing the Government itself. In the Central Europe 7 judgment issued by the European Court of Human Rights, which refers to the Italian situation, the violation of the first paragraph of Article 117 of our Constitution, which obliges us to respect international conventions, is also underlined. Moreover, the draft law does not at all transpose the European rules on the independence of the public service and the transparency of the management of public resources derived from the fee, which are already applied in other European public services. In particular, European Council Resolution 2065/2015 and Recommendation 2074/2015 have not yet been transposed, not even in the form of a transparency card based on European rules and laws in force in Italy, in order to avoid corruption in the management of RAI, of which there are recent examples. Similarly, the principles laid down by the European institutions establishing specific perimeters of transparency and independence in the management of the economic resources of public services are not part of the reform in order to avoid damage to the image of large cultural companies and to avoid crimes in the public sphere, starting from the appointment of the managing director, which would be, in fact, direct expression of the Government. Therefore, in our view, the new governance is in clear violation not only of the main article of our Constitution, but of all the pronouncements in this sense of the Council of Europe, the European Union and the various judgments of the Constitutional Court. Furthermore, the draft law on public service reform explicitly does not provide for any form of independent and third control over the current parliamentary supervisory committee, which should instead be introduced - in this sense we had put forward our proposals - because it could better respond to the principles of objectivity, transparency and pluralism in the planning of RAI programming. The decision of the Constitutional Court No 826 of 1988 defines pluralism as a guarantee of being able to choose between different programmes that ensure the expression of trend with plural characters. The Court's judgment No 420 of 1994 affirms the absolute need for adequate discipline to prevent the formation of dominant positions, guarantees that could be ensured through representative bodies of the various political, social and cultural bodies of the country in the field of audiovisual and radio media, in order to guarantee and protect what is a common good for us, namely the public service. Article 4 also provides for legislative delegations on very different subjects, which constitute an excess of delegation, which, moreover, in many parts appears generic, excessive and indefinite, not satisfying on the whole the provisions of Article 76 of the Constitution, on the basis of which the exercise of the legislative function cannot be delegated to the Government, except with determination of guiding principles and criteria and only for limited time and for defined objects. There are no references and indications of sufficient content to limit the discretion of the delegated legislator, given the particularity and delicacy of the matter that involves constitutionally relevant principles. This lack or indeterminate nature of the principles and criteria means that the only guiding criterion for the standardisation of the subject of the delegation is the free appreciation of the Government. Such an arrangement was declared unconstitutional by the Court in judgment No 340 of 2007, according to which the free appreciation of the delegated legislator can never become a guiding principle or criterion, as regards the opposites of bound legislation, which is by definition delegated legislation. To sum up, Mr President, we believe that the draft law under consideration is in clear violation of constitutional principles, of rules contained in international conventions, of Council of Europe's rulings and of repeated and various judgments of the Constitutional Court. For this reason, therefore, we ask not to proceed with the examination of the draft law in question. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u60	He asked Senator Cioffi to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP4. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u61	Mr President, there is not much to talk about. It would suffice to say that every time a single party and a single man command and they are the dominus, this is unconstitutional. It would suffice to say that the measure on the reform of the RAI under discussion is unconstitutional in itself. When, in fact, the members of the board are appointed directly or indirectly by the Presidency of the Council or the majority party, moreover through Italicum, we can only say that we are doing something that is not in conformity with the fundamental dictates of the state in which we live. And we could also finish the discussion here and there would be nothing else to add. However, if we want to make this concept more clear, it would suffice to read the judgments already cited by the Constitutional Court, such as - for example - the famous judgment No 225 of 1974, of which a party is explicitly mentioned, where it is stated that the governing bodies of the managing body are not constituted in such a way as to represent directly or indirectly the exclusive or predominant expression of the executive power and that their structure is such as to guarantee objectivity. Then we are disregarding what the Constitutional Court has told us, considering how we are configuring RAI. And we already said that at the first step, we told the House and we'll say it again today. What we are building is a monster worse than the Gasparri law, which was already not a very good thing; indeed, when we were outside this Parliament, it seemed a terrible thing to us. But since we hear that it is more democratic that the parties are represented in their plurality, because the plurality of the parties represents the plurality of citizenship, we cannot fight one thing that we do not like with another that we like even less, because we are continuing to make mistakes; and mistakes on other mistakes should not be made. What we have clearly asked cannot be accepted by those who today think they are dominating the political scene, but perhaps tomorrow they will regret having made the laws thinking they always dominate, when instead, as always happens when they change the laws for their own use and consumption, they will perish (obviously metaphorically) for their own laws. We are therefore in a situation in which they think they can manage the RAI directly, and that is what we cannot accept from a conceptual point of view, as well as of course on the basis of the Court's judgments. Then there are other very interesting passages, which concern - for example - violations of the procurement code, which we are reforming here in the Senate and also in the House. Obviously the text that came out of the Senate was better than that of the Chamber, where an opening was made to the dealers, but this concerns the code of contracts. But here too we are putting derogations from the procurement code, which do not comply with the Community directive. Can we then include derogations which do not comply with the Community directive that we are implementing? This is also an absurdity that we find in the text of the RAI reform. Not to mention the words of the director of the EBU, who came here to audition to the Senate and told us that, with this hypothesis of reform, Italy would be the only country to have a head of company appointed directly by the Government, with the exception of Bulgaria. We are therefore in a strange situation, in which the government thinks it can continue to take everything. But when you play ace you catch everything, maybe the ace happens in someone else's hands. And when will this happen, and that is when the power will manage it someone else - this always happens in all democratic fora - what will those who have done the laws think in this way of centering power on themselves? We abhor the very notion that there is someone who can think of putting his hands on power and expelling citizens' rights in that way. That is the basic problem: we should talk about this and we should be involved in it. Unfortunately, that is not the case, Mr President. We can only continue to fight this drift that we read today in the reform of RAI and that we have read in so many other measures. You tend to focus more and more power in the hands of the few and, every time this happens, you take a bad drift, that is the PD, that is Force Italy, that is anyone. It's not okay. We need to increase the possibility for everyone to be in control. Instead, if we focus control in the hands of a few, we produce a bad effect. And with the winds pulling into the world, Mr President, with what is happening in the world, centralizing powers is dangerous. We are talking about RAI today, but this drift is dangerous, Mr President, because the winds that blow into the world are bad and perhaps we should also think about RAI. When we do these things, we are preparing a ground that our children do not deserve. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u62	In postponing the explanation of the remainder of the question for a preliminary ruling, I suspend the sitting until 3.30 p.m. when the President of the Council of Ministers' communications will begin. (The sitting was suspended at 3.10 p.m. and resumed at 333 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u63	The next item is: "Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 17 and 18 December 2015 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Dr Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the next meeting of the European Council is deeply marked by what happened on 13 November in Europe. It is a summit which has important international and economic issues on its agenda, but which is part of the first official meeting after the tragic attacks in Paris. It is official because an extraordinary European Council has already been held on Sunday 29 November on immigration and relations with Turkey and we have already had the opportunity to meet many colleagues, Heads of State and Government, in Paris itself, on the occasion of the precious summit on environmental sustainability. This, however, is the first occasion in which the 28 countries of the European Union meet after the attacks on Bataclan, Stade de France and after the attacks in the restaurants and breweries of the French capital. It is therefore a question of deciding whether we simply want to reflect on the important and important items on the agenda or to try to raise the tone and level of the debate to reflect on whether Europe can now have a strategy that goes beyond the mere reaction of day after day, whether it is capable of having a broad, high and noble vision of what lies ahead of us from here to the next few months and perhaps to the next few years. In fact, I believe - I am not the only one and the most important - firmly and strongly that the response to what has happened in Paris, and that it fits in a really difficult year begun in the French capital with the attacks of Charlie Hebdo and with the further blood events dominated by jihadist terrorism in Denmark and Belgium, can only touch Europe and Europe. Therefore, there is more than just a symbolic value in the choice of the Italian Government to prepare a common and shared platform for reflection starting from the Hall of Orazi and Curiazi of the Capitol. We have chosen to explain how, in our opinion, Europe and Italy would have to react in a symbolic place, the Hall of Orazi and Curiazi, that is, the hall in which fifty-eight years ago the founding Treaties of the European Community were signed. It is as if, with that act, we had said that Europe must respond to the wave of terror with a plan that firmly holds its feet anchored in the dream and at the same time is capable of being concrete and realistic. We have identified three strategies of reaction as a country: security, diplomatic and military. There is no possibility of freedom if citizens do not feel secure. Unfortunately, statistics are not enough, but they are positive: reducing crime and improving the quality of life. Statistics are not enough to make citizens safer: the perceived needs some choices of evocative and symbolic value. For this reason we have chosen to respond first of all on the internal level with a series of measures that are primarily the valorization of our Forces of the Order, through the allocation to the security forces and military of 80 euros monthly and of new means, as well as through a significant budget assigned to the defense for possible initiatives of international nature, with an important voice on the topic of cyber security. I will not be here to discuss a subject which could trace back to the origins of the European debate. When, however, it is said that we must share more and more strongly and more closely our information and our defence system is not putting itself on a topic of novelty. It is at least from 1954 - let us remember the positions of General de Gaulle - that our countries discuss how to create a common defence system. And it is not even conceivable that every time, after an attack, we hope for a greater integration of security systems, which are not in any case able to act with due timeliness. But the point that we want to say is that on cyber security Italy can be leader in Europe and in the world, through the action of its own forces of order, its own security forces, through the action of some important companies of our wonderful country, through the engineering and innovative quality of many talents who work in the Homeland, and who are ready to return where they work abroad, through the coordination of intelligence, that can play a significant role on this. So the first issue is security. We have chosen to respond to what has happened, starting first from the perception of our fellow citizens. The second element is having invested in the diplomatic initiative. We were not at the Vienna table, where the five plus one discussed Iran. I do not want to open up controversy over the past because, when it comes to foreign policy, it is useful - and I would even say necessary - to find the broadest possible consensus. And in all the circumstances in which I was able to, I highlighted as positive value of the country system the elements of continuity between different governments, inserting myself in my turn, with the Executive that I have the honour and the burden of driving, in this line of continuity. That's what a civilized country does. Foreign policy is not based on the impressions and moods of the moment, but it has its own history, its own tradition and, of course, a need for expression of strength and power, for which I have never opened a controversy about why we were not sitting at the table in Vienna. The fact is that now, in the same city, there is a table with the same interlocutors, extended to Italy and the powers of the region, which addresses the issue of Syria. We have returned aboard, and we owe it, first of all, to our historic, inescapable and absolutely constitutive relationship with the identity of our foreign policy, with the United States of America and, in particular, with the White House and with the State Department. Secretary of State John Kerry was decisive in this choice, along with our government structure of course. We have therefore returned to the table that counts on the Syrian question and we have hosted in Rome, with the Foreign Ministers of the main countries of the world, an important appointment on Libya, which we hope can finally accompany the path of peace of that martyred land, which gives so much worry from the point of view of the estate, even if, to honor the truth, do not result those signs and those shields of further concern that have been reported by some international newspapers. They are not, in such a clear and obvious way, to a large part of the international community. But even if there are no incipient and imminent threats, I believe it is absolutely essential that Libya is considered the cornerstone of our policy in the Mediterranean. And I think it is absolutely clear, to us and our allies, that if there is a country in which Italy plays, can play and will perform a function, that I would not define as leadership but as accompanying, with a role of important commitment, it can only be Libya; and not so much for territorial claims, but for the deep sense that history has and also for the opportunities that history can open. So, security and diplomacy. But that's not enough. The appalling debate that sometimes some commentators and very authoritative professionals, with a little 'quickness - I am sorry to say - have opened up on the fact that Italy does not do enough in the military war against ISIS, clashes with reality. We have said one thing about which we are convinced and proud: we do not intervene by belly with reactions without a strategy, in a complex affair, in a powder keg such as the Middle East. But this does not mean that we are backing back from responsibilities that we not only carry out with honor, but that they are even so imposing as to make Italy the second country, after the United States, as the number of women and men who work for peace in the world. I would like to make that clear, because it is not an element that applies to our Government, it is not a badge that the Government protempore puts on. It is a qualifying element of national identity and should be an element of pride that sees the whole Parliament, the whole Senate, convincedly committed to supporting our women and our men who at Herat lead the laborious transition process of President Ghani and that country; who in Lebanon lead the UNIFIL mission; who in Kosovo and the Balkans make the importance of an area in an area that risks being the next major emergency, if we do not intervene with vision and vision. Because our carabinieri in Iraq are extraordinary points of reference in the formation of local law enforcement; because our admirals lead the Atalanta mission in Somalia and the European mission in the Mediterranean; because in all areas of the world most subject to difficulties, in all the theatres of the world Italy is proud of those who represent a force of peace, freedom and security in defence of women's rights, children's rights [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] , in defence of freedom and peace, and we should all be grateful together to these fellow citizens of ours. So it's not that if we put four more or less Tornadoes, something changes from the point of view of our commitment. We must be faithful to a principle: when we intervene militarily, we must be clear today and tomorrow, because we have already seen in some scenarios how intervention that is not clear tomorrow creates problems on today. That is why we have given our allies and partners, starting with the Minister of Defence, the willingness to take responsibility for a situation of difficulty that lies in the heart of Iraq, near Mosul. The Minister of Defence will report, in the forms that the Commissions will want to identify, on this possibility, that is to finally be able to facilitate the restoration, the recovery of an important structure, of an important dam that today is in the hands of the Italians. On this too, we must have the clarity to tell us, in a country that too often is pleased with victimism and complaint: Italian engineers, Italian workers, Italian workers in general are serious people, recognized in the world for their quality, and are able to do things that others cannot do. Of course, it will be up to Parliament, in the forms it considers appropriate, to use the Ministers concerned, starting with those of foreign and defence, but we will give this willingness, because we do not withdraw from what is a real condition for fighting and countering Daesh's ideology of death and the risks that may come, for example, in that country, Iraq, in which we honor the memory of our fallen, people who have lost their lives, inciting a wave of strong popular emotion, in trying to restore peace and freedom. Security, diplomacy, military response. We say to Europe that, if it wants to be able to be a great beacon again in the world debate, it must play this game not on the basis of the impressions of the moment but with a strategy. Then, if we talk about strategy, we must also have the courage to look at the other side of the coin. Well security, good diplomacy, good military response, but let's not hide in the face of reality. The Paris bombers were mostly born and raised on European territory; the Paris bombers moved freely within the European states, from the suburbs of Brussels to those of the French capital. Just as it was European he who attacked the synagogue in Belgium or Denmark; as were European those who shot in the editorial staff of Charlie Hebdo; as was European the executioner of the Islamic State of Daesh, killed by an American drone paradoxically on the same day, November 13, in Syrian territory, but born and raised in the United Kingdom. So if this is true, if Europe wants to reflect on itself, it cannot fail to note that there is an emergency which is just as important as diplomatic, military and security, namely that it is the need for a great cultural, educational and valuable investment. I do not give a sociological reading, for which terrorism is the answer of the poor; it is not so. It may be so in some parts of the world - for God's sake - but it is not so in the vast majority of expressions of jihadist terrorism. Certainly it was not an economic problem to mark the experience of Osama Bin Laden; Certainly it is not an economic problem to mark the choices that many have made in that area of the world. But I also give a social and cultural reading, so if we are not able to invest in education and culture, if we are not able to give a urban response in our suburbs, if we are not able to create cities in which we can return to practice the value of dialogue, tolerance, acceptance, research, knowledge, if we do not give this type of response, every kind of reaction will be partial. To think that we are responding to the great drama that our planet is experiencing by imagining that we can bomb and imagine that, by bombing, everything will be solved, it means ignoring a fact: that the first place of Europe's foreign policy today - and I would like, with your consent, to say it tomorrow at the European Council - is our cities, our suburbs. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Albertini and Bianconi]] They are the places of discontent that takes the form of a prevailing nihilism, such as to bring twenty-year-old boys, who may have played football and had experiences in public schools in our countries, to become those who are stuffed with explosives and blow themselves up in a concert, killing boys of their generation, as it was - and I would like to remind you here, together with all of you - Valeria Solesin. [[Applause]] To her and to her family, who gave lessons of extraordinary dignity, goes the hug, I think I can say, on behalf of the whole constitutional arc. So, the cultural answer. Italy offers a direction. I know that there is a debate, including between us; the law of stability will be the place where this debate will find a debate, I hope, fruitful and fertile. But we said, in the Sala degli Orazi e Curiazi, that is, in the room in which Europe was born, that for every euro invested in security we need to have a euro invested in education; that for every euro invested in police we need to have a euro invested in our suburbs; that for every euro invested in armoring the houses - because this can also be there - we need to have a euro to open the squares, to create opportunities for dialogue, to allow girls and boys to understand that the European identity, to which Italy competes crucially, is not only a defensive identity, based on fear and walls, but is, on the contrary, the Greek and Roman idea of a great place of space, of the mind, of the spirit that makes us proud of being Italian. Let me say this, apart from the opinions I respect, which are also different and divided. Our attempt to involve the young, the eighteen-year-olds (we will see if there are other solutions, we are ready to discuss everything), is aimed at telling them: I recognize something if you agree to go to the theater or a museum, if you agree not to be locked in the home in the places of your security and if you are willing to form from an educational point of view asking questions, about the beauty of a theatrical work or music. Let's not forget that one of the most viewed videos on Youtube is that of the extremist imam that educates children in France to hate music, to be afraid of music. What good is Italy if it does not defend music, art, culture, its theatres? What good is Italy if it does not have the courage to intervene in a different way, even on issues related to urban planning? In the debate that you will do and what we will do about the bill of stability there is more money for the right to study, there is more money for sport. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Yesterday we presented, with President Malagò, a program of interventions at the ZEN in Palermo, in Scampia, in the outskirts of Rome, Milan and Barletta, because we think that that too is a piece of the answer. If someone ironifies, saying that we are facing terrorism and the threat of extremism by doing soccer fields and opening theaters, we will respond that we are the country that more than any other, after the Americans, has women and men engaged on the ground, in the world, and that we are the country that more than any other has helped to create an idea of diplomacy, so that Italy can recover the Mediterranean as a place of confrontation, and that we are the country that, more than any other, responds to the need to invest in security in an innovative way, being a world leader in cybertechnology and cybersecurity. At the same time, however, we believe that this must also be the role of Italy and Europe. That is why - I come quickly to the second part of the reasoning - the first European Council after the events of 13 November is an opportunity for us to illustrate, in a thorough and comprehensive way, this vision, which holds together diplomacy, security and foreign policy and which does not fail in relation to the foreign policy of the past. In the extraordinary European Council, there was a debate on Turkey, in which I was able to say aloud and without shame that, unlike other colleagues who sat at that table and in that assembly, I represented a country which, although having had governments very divided from each other, had seen in two of my predecessors, the longest-lived - that is, for the right, President Berlusconi and, for the left, President Prodi - a substantial identity of views on the relationship with Turkey, which other countries, in the early 2000s, had fought, helping to create conditions for the slipping and shifting of Turkish foreign policy. I said that because, when I go to Europe, I represent Italy and not my party and I am not afraid to claim a foreign policy line that has a sense of continuity. At the same time I said then, I say here and - if you will allow me - I will say tomorrow that the equation for combating terrorism must be strongly rejected: the same fight against immigration. In fact, superficiality and over-pochism are bad everywhere, but especially in foreign policy. We have a great immigration issue in Turkey, but we cannot forget the great immigration issue in Jordan - that authoritative statesman who is the Jordanian King has reminded us very well, in a recent initiative organized by the Minister for Foreign Affairs - in Lebanon, where our responsibilities are also strong, and, of course, throughout the African area, starting with Libya, the point of arrival of refugees and departure to Europe, but investing in a comprehensive and comprehensive way throughout the continent. Alongside this, it is right to remember that, if we put the issue of immigration into question, it is a problem of putting what is happening in the Balkans into the background. Once again history teaches us what happens by not accepting the request for involvement of some countries. I say this two days after Serbia finally started negotiations with the European Union on a major Italian initiative: this happened about a year ago for Albania. It must therefore be realised that those countries must be fully involved in the European Union, because the Europe of 28 is either too much or too little: it cannot remain at this level. It was either necessary to reflect more carefully first on a certain path of openness, or, at the time of Europe's 28th anniversary, one cannot keep out of the Balkans, which, in my opinion, will be the next migratory emergency, not only in our country. They are already so in many ways in Germany, and not only that, but they risk returning to it because of the dramatic situation that afflicts many nations and many countries. There is no room for superficiality, there is no room for spot tones or demagogy when dealing with matters of such great importance. I believe that Italy has helped to set a course: when it asked to put the Mediterranean in the center, no one was talking about it. It was February 2014 when we went to Tunisia as the first official visit; it was March 2015 when we were the first to go to the Kremlin to ask that there should be no procurement of Syrian policy to Russia - anything else - but that there should be a full involvement of Russia, a return to the international community to face together the great threats of extremist terrorism, which is likely to be a problem for that great nation as well. We were among the first to say that the issue of immigration could not be left to individual states; that it could not be a matter to be debilitated as an internal vice-duke. Well, today we can say that Europe is at a crossroads; have the strength of the European Union to understand that there is a need to give an answer that goes beyond the quarter by quarter, the day by day; a response that has the sense of a broad horizon, design. Then we will be able to include the debate on economic and monetary union or the digital single market in this dynamic, in this perspective, in this horizon. But Europe cannot just be a place where we discuss comma-zero or procedures; it has to go back to having the characteristics of the visionary political project. That is why, in my opinion - and I am beginning to conclude - the other issues we are going to discuss in the debate must see a leading Italy, but starting from here. We offer Europe a period of time to discuss seriously and argue about what will no longer be the Europe of fathers - to which only gratitude and gratitude go, because what Europe has done is the generation that, in the history of the world, is certainly at the forefront of vision and vision - but what will be, alongside this grateful gaze, the Europe of children. How can we continue to be an attractive continent if our economic growth rates are not equal - I am not saying those of the South-East or Africa - to those of the Americans? [[Senator Centinario's comments.]] I say this because, even with respect to some voices from the sen fugitive right now, if there is one thing that the current Italian Government can claim is that it has finally brought back the average of growth to the level of other European countries. But when I say it, at the same time I say it's not enough. Italy from 1946 to 1992 was the country that grew most of all in Europe. A minimum of history of the institutions and economic history of the Country leads us to say that in the First Republic Italy had the highest percentage of all; from 1992 to 2013 we were those who grew less than all, reaching the negative growth of 2.3 in 2012, of 1.9 in 2013 and of 0.4 in 2014. Why did this happen? For internal responsibilities? Of course, and the reforms are showing that once you do the things you have to do, the measures start. If we had done the jobs act ten years ago, maybe we would be in different conditions: try to believe, since the jobs act is only the reform that Schroeder before and Merkel then implemented and implemented in Germany exactly ten years before us, in a time of crisis in Germany, bringing the German economy back to growth. This is the reality; then there are opinions and facts separated from opinions. These are the facts. But the central point is that, in any case, growth (of 0.1 or 0.2 more or less), Europe must return to being attractive, dynamic; it must call the best brains and bring them into the field. What if Europe is not in a position to do this? Of course, I am talking about a democratic Europe; it can be said who, having taken 40.8% of the votes, represents the first party in Europe with 11.2 million votes. [[Comments from M5S and LN-Aut Groups. Applause from the PD Group]] Those who are committed at European level today can say that so that Parliament, the Commission and the Council have a role to play. However, the fundamental point is that the Europe that awaits us needs Italy to make Italy. In recent years - and this is my opinion - Italy has been slapped for a thousand reasons, both internal and external. The fact that Italy did not make its voice heard in the European debate was a problem for our country, but I like it, indeed I regret to think that, seeing reality, it was also a problem for Europe, which lost a quality of the debate that would have been needed. Therefore, what we are trying to do, starting with the European Council of tomorrow, is not only to say that we are happy with the climate agreement or to work so that Brexit is not there, but also and above all to remind all of us that if Italy brings its own contribution, such as the one we have identified in the Hall of Orazi and Curiazi and that it holds together security, diplomacy and military action, but at the same time it deals with education, values, soul culture, identity and roots; if we are able to do this, I do not know if the Europe of children will be as forward-looking as that of fathers, but it will be as strong as it needs to be today, in such a delicate and difficult setting of the international political landscape. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u65	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u66	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I leave the European strategy to the various experts who will speak here and in Europe in the belief that Europe is responsible for its response and that Italy must have an important part in it, both for security and for democracy and finally for military action. However, I would like to make you think about the spirit that must guide us and that must guide you, since you represent us. I will start with the numbers of Syria: 3,984 million refugees, 7 million displaced persons, 12 million people in need, 4.8 million people difficult to reach within the Syrian territory. They are numbers: we have replaced numbers for men and have replaced compassion for human suffering with the assault of accounting balances. You are right: the victims of November 13 fell under the action of paramilitary commandos who had weapons of war, liquid explosives; they are criminals who learned to act together at different points under the control of a coordinator. The goal was to scare, create psychosis, terror, blind fear in people. They know what the recruiters have put in their heads; they're filling themselves with drugs, they're shooting at training camps and they're feeling like heroes, but they're just little terrorists. The risk associated with the attacks in Paris is that of the so-called strong effect, that is, that the European population conditioned by fear is locked up in the material and intangible boundaries of its own certainties. In this case, more than police action, further efforts are needed in the direction of integration and dialogue, and I believe that this is its first objective, from what I understand. Europe is the land of fundamental rights and for this reason it is a landmark in the world, so it cannot close its eyes. The Member States of the European Union have the opportunity to demonstrate that they live up to their history and values. Today this is more necessary than ever, when there are walls against migrants, in open contrast not only with the principles of European construction, but also with the recent past of our continent. I will never tire of repeating how scientifically proven we are all equal and that comparison with each other, with the so-called "different" is a necessary experience both to improve ourselves and to live with others. To educate young people, this is the task of the school: to educate them in the duty of acceptance and respect for minorities. It is necessary to make the aid and rescue priorities of national and European policies. Well, I think this is what you could and should do. In order to achieve radical change, we must have the courage to invent the future, as I have heard you say. I agree perfectly, we must dare, we must invent a future. It is our moral duty to build a future in which everyone can find citizenship, a future that we must all realize together, without leaving anyone behind, first of all ourselves and our values. I hope you will go to Europe with this heart, to defend Italy. [[Applause from the PD, Misto-IdV and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u67	He is registered to speak Senator Guerrieri Paleotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as you mentioned, on the table of this important European summit, the issues of immigration, security and economic and monetary union will be central. Some time ago German Chancellor Angela Merkel said that only by finding a European agreement on a mechanism to redistribute immigration flows fairly will we be able to save the Schengen area and thus the possibility of an intra-European mobility area free of passports and barriers. Even more recently, the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, said that if Schengen were to fail and become a segmented area at national level, the euro and the monetary agreement would also be doomed to failure. Here, I believe that the existence of this link is absolutely a fact and that euros, refugees and Schengen are not just crises and emergencies that have followed in recent months, one close to the other, but are somehow emergencies that add up and interact. This link is all the more evident because there is one element in common between the euro and Schengen; This element is that they are unfinished projects, which Europe has somehow left in half. These are therefore cases, let us take the example of the euro, in which the single currency was launched, but the banks and state budgets have remained separate. And so, when the crisis broke out, we had no tools and mechanisms to intervene, to manage the crisis at federal level and to find a solution. It took us five years, with great costs and sacrifices, and unfortunately we are still struggling with many of these problems. Now, I believe that we must not repeat the same mistake with Schengen and with the problems of immigration and security. Schengen is also an unfinished work: in some way we move freely in this area, but the problem is that in drawing it we forgot to share intelligence and police services. So, somehow, we also forgot to transfer part of the supervisory authority on external barriers to the centre, to the European level. All of this, as we know, makes it difficult to guarantee an adequate level of security for European citizens. There is a danger, when unions remain unfinished: they run the risk of disintegrating. That is why the only possibility, as you have said, and the only realistic one today is in some way that of a Union that finally gives itself and realizes the necessary policies that it has so far been deprived of. But we know that is not at all obvious. As far as the problems of immigration and security are concerned, there are those who think they should dismantle Schengen and somehow return to national security systems, thinking that this can be a solution. Of course politically it would be an easy choice: it is a matter of bringing certain changes to completion at home. This would bring these barriers between countries back. However, apart from the fact that, for the reasons you have explained, they would not function as a dam against terrorism, it would be the most inefficient of mechanisms. We are talking about countries that should rebuild these systems at national level. For these reasons, I believe that your Government has done well to hope, think and present as inevitable the second path, namely the action to strengthen the Schengen Agreement at European level by building European intelligence capacity and joint control at external border level. There are some initial proposals from the Commission in this direction, but resources are needed. It has been estimated that in 2015 the United States will spend $35 billion to defend its borders, against the €140 million currently managed by Frontex for the security of our borders. It is therefore right that, as a response to the emergency, resources have been activated at national level and spending has begun. It is clear, however, that this will not be enough. Given the amount of resources, we must increase the spending capacity of the European Union, even by issuing federal debt. For this purpose, it is perfectly legitimate to pool resources to address a common problem. Of course, it is clear that, in order for such a strategy to be implemented, we need a vision, a long look and, above all, an economic strengthening. Let us therefore return to the link with the euro and to monetary union. Even in the case of monetary union, things have been done, but let us not forget that there are still problems and risks that do not exclude the possibility of a break in the medium term. Here again, a reform strategy is therefore needed. Many people recognize their need but, as we know, this does not make it any less difficult to introduce them. What is lacking - I agree with you, Mr Renzi - is above all a strategic plan on the growth and development of the euro area and the European Union to beat the populisms of Europe. It is true that populism is a little everywhere fueled mainly by economic factors, unemployment and poverty, which are a strong push. If we look at the areas where the National Front has obtained the most votes in France, we realize that they are the most depressed and with the most poor living conditions. As we know, this issue has been on the table in Brussels for too long (since before the Greek crisis) and, in order for it to become operational, we need to get out of the wrong policies that have been carried out so far and re-launch the issue of governance and decision-making at European level. To conclude and summarise the link between Schengen and the euro, these are two incomplete additions and, if they remain, the risk would be that Europe would be dissolved. The process must therefore be continued and completed, but for this reason we need a profound change of the European Union and show that Europe's systems and the pooling of certain policies are useful and effective when used with force and determination. Somehow we need to convince European citizens, who are increasingly sceptical, that putting together resources and strategies in Europe can be an added value. It is true, at this stage our country can play a great role, trying to fill the void and the deep distrust between countries that exist today. Of course, we need resources. It will be very difficult, but I believe it is the only way to prevent the risk that the process of unification and integration will stop in half or there will be a dangerous regression. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u69	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u70	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the items on the agenda which the next Council meeting on 17 and 18 December is called upon to discuss (the fight against terrorism, migration, economic and monetary union, as my colleague Mr Guerrieri Paleotti has just reminded us, the single market and the forthcoming referendums convened in the United Kingdom) are all closely linked because the red thread that unites them is the very future of the European Union's survival. In fact, the situation is so delicate and twisted that, speaking to the diplomatic corps, the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella wanted to emphasize that today the plan for European integration lives one of the most complex and contradictory moments. Your words, Mr President, bear witness to this. We Conservatives and Reformists pay the utmost attention to this alarm pronounced by President Mattarella. The letter published at the same time in the newspapers "La Repubblica" and "The Telegraph" signed by the British Foreign Minister Philip Hammond and our Foreign Minister Paolo Gentiloni shows a positive sign of the resumption of the Italian initiative in the international and European field, as you have reminded us, Mr President. In that common Italian-English reflection there are all the premises for giving a new and positive impetus to the European Union. The Conservatives and Reformists share this approach, but this means that now the Government must know, even with honest self-criticism - Mr President-in-Office of the Council, please pay attention only for a moment - to overcome the inertias of the past, dissipate opaque positions that so disturb our allies and develop a coherent and fruitful action so that what Minister Gentiloni said does not remain a sterile announcement or a momentary sighting only to lighten the Italian marginality, which has been determined by the Monti Government up to now with our swinging attitudes. Months ago we, Conservatives and Reformists, supported isolated - alas - the need for this understanding with the Government of Cameron to give a significant role to Italy in the dynamics of the European Union, in the choices that must be made for economic growth and to restore enamel to our foreign policy. Today we look more confident to the future if the Government will know how to be consequent on this line, which for Italy can be defined as natural and historically incardinated. Now, if you can extend an agreement with the United Kingdom also on foreign policy, you can really open up a perspective that will no longer see Italy in a state of isolation and minority, as it has been so far. Our right concerns about Libya for the issue of migrants and the countless Italian economic interests, first and foremost the oil interests, which we have rooted in that country, can be shared and found more attention among allies, especially since the agreement with the Libyan Government is very fragile and you know it. To achieve success, it is essential to intervene on the dangerously attracted tribes and factions of ISIS, which allows them to take possession of oil. This could lead not only to diplomatic action, but also to military intervention in those territories today exposed to the control of the caliphate. Speculationally, in order to demand this solidarity in Libya, it may be necessary to review the modalities of our military role on the Middle East side. On this point, Mr President, we did not appreciate what is likely to be an Italian decommitment to Syria. President Renzi, do not propose the ambiguity of some seasons of Italian politics with respect to the Middle East, perhaps in the illusion of saving us attacks in Italy. It would be wrong twice, as our Group has already reminded you in the debate this morning in the House. Because the world looks at us and judges us. And because (let's hope of course not) it could be we, one day, who need help. So what are we gonna say? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your Government has changed the stability law in the last few hours with a strong commitment to refinancing multilateral development funds. They are important resources, about 1.5 billion Italian money, from now to 2026, in specific funds including those in the Caribbean, which also play a strategic role from the economic point of view. I understand all the importance of this, but, Mr President-in-Office, we need those resources for North Africa, for the Mediterranean basin, because we play a role there and we also play a future in terms of security. Then cyber security has its own important declination if, first of all, it looks to our security, to those territories that, overlooking the Mediterranean, are for us the main sources of concern, but also the main opportunities for strategic alliances. And I have always recognized them as the choice of the Italian Government to accompany the democratic process in Tunisia cannot but favour that only possible development, not only for cooperation, but for the democracy of that territory, for the protection of our security and, therefore, for our democracy. However, we must also show ourselves as reliable allies on the issue of migrants, where it is necessary, for our security and that of all citizens of the European Union, to make a rigorous identification of migrants in order to control their movement, to more effectively respect the terrorists who are confused among the poor people, and to isolate carriers of exotic diseases or by us who have been eradicated for a long time. That's not a problem to underestimate. On this last point, we are little wondered at the work carried out by the National Institute for Health, Migration and Poverty, which is silent and which, with silence that seems to us worrying, prevents us from looking ahead to some health problems that we might soon have. I come back to the agreement with the United Kingdom, which will be stronger in calling for more coherent action in Brussels to defend borders, but which must also immediately comply with this point by rigorously applying the regulation on the registration of migrants in order to distinguish illegal immigrants from refugees and asylum seekers. Unfortunately, the European Union risks crumbling if it lacks the ability to think from a perspective of common interest, which for many years has been very rare, a fact that has caused great suffering also to the process of the Banking Union that should be completed in order to achieve risk sharing with the private sector, in order to better protect taxpayers from the cost of bank bailouts but, above all, defending the Italian credit system. The Italian case of these days must make us think. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you made yourself clear. We don't accept justiceist drifts. It will be the judiciary in its autonomy to intervene in order to verify any offences and personal and criminal responsibilities, but it is certain that the Government has a duty to clarify what has happened; and it will certainly be necessary to set up a commission of inquiry, also to verify the supervision of the Bank of Italy and CONSOB. And it must do so very quickly because if that text is adopted by Parliament six months late, it will no longer do anything. We expected the Italian Government to fight the real battle against the European No (as alleged state aid: but it was not) with respect to the clearer and more structural solution that was initially proposed by the banks themselves. We need solutions based on liberal culture, which the European Union has not always taken into account. We Reformist Conservatives have already given a clear indication months ago when, alone, we in this House opposed each other and asked for further details on the approval of that bail in which it would soon become a trap for us. President Mario Draghi's warning in his speech yesterday in Bologna must be taken into account: governments can no longer waste time and must hurry to make good structural reforms, also because zero-rate financing times will not be eternal and we know it well. But I am even more convinced by the words of Draghi expressed at the sides of that conference: there is nothing better, for the bad bankers, than to know that then everything can be resolved with great public resources that cover everything, to the cry of "all guilty: no guilty!" We know that the good bankers, the good banks, those on the territory that have been properly close and appropriate to savers, families and businesses, cannot be penalized by someone who is wrong. We're at a point of no return. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we still have time for important decisions before us; do not resort to demagogy or clever or umbilical positions; be able to look at the future courageously and have no fear, for the sake of Italy and Europe, of correcting the mistakes that have so far characterized your political action. President Renzi, do not make mistakes that have already been made too many times by others. The right direction for our foreign policy is, and I repeat to you, in the House as well as in the Senate: Washington, London, Jerusalem. And it is not appropriate to make, on even days, emotional speeches towards the West and, in odd days, subtle dialogues, perhaps in other directions. We advise against that, President Renzi. [[Applause from the CoR Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u71	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u72	Mr President, I would like to point out to you, only for the sake of the record, the uninterrupted procession towards the benches of the Government, which prevents the President of the Council from following the speeches. I am opening my speech with two accents, one on foreign policy and the other on internal policy. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have announced that you want to block the extension of economic sanctions against Russia, an essential ally to stem the threat of Daesh, a position which we share and which we hope will be implemented in practice, even if it is a minority right now in the European Union. He also said that he wanted to continue the traditional policy of the Italian governments of opening up to Turkey. But Turkey, which aspires to join the European Union, is no longer the secular Turkey of Atatürk's heirs: it has Islamized and has the ambition to take advantage of the Syrian and Iraqi crises to expand its area of influence and establish a kind of modern caliphate in the Middle East. Moreover, by opening up relations with Russia, it has created many problems for NATO and Europe. And then we need a surplus of prudence in the openings of credit and I appeal to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: I wonder why the European Union has allocated 3 billion to help Erdogan manage the refugee camps and thus prevent a new exodus of immigrants to Europe, and do not do the same against Iraqi Kurdistan (which you did not mention when you should have had an equal number of refugees in a much smaller territory in Turkey and, with its peshmergas, you are fighting alone, on the ground, the Islamic State. This is an instance which I would ask you to take very forcefully to the next European Council. Allow me a notation, not polemic, but chronicle. You said, with reference to the jobs act, a reform that rightly claims, that if it had been done ten years ago Italy would have gone better. I remind you that the Berlusconi Government approved the Biagi reform, which was envied by all of Europe while against it the left, including his party, erected the barricades. With regard to the European issues that you have touched on, Europe is unfortunately taking a step on the most important issues: from non-growth to immigration, from the jihadist threat to integration policies, from the commitments made at the European Councils to the non-existent solidarity between States, to the end, to a truly common foreign and defence policy. It's a deficit budget. Let's start with immigration. Italy is, together with Greece, in the front line to face an epochal exodus of people, because this, willing or not, is the century of great migrations. But Europe, once again, can only give bureaucratic answers. He demands from us facts and offers us promises in return. I am referring, in particular, to the farce-making commitment on relocations, so far - and who knows how much - completely disregarded: promises that then turn into infringement procedures for not having taken prints on all immigrants landed on our coasts. The Commission wants other hotspots to open by the end of the year, but everything remains a dead letter on the relocation and return front. The President of the Republic, in his speech to the diplomatic corps, understood very well the sense of the European vacuum, of a great project in crisis in facing all the open fronts. If Europe does not change quickly, it will only feed the dissatisfaction caused by the economic crisis, the instability of its borders and the fears for security, which promote the affirmation of populist, anti-European and anti-system movements that exploit the growing social distress, as demonstrated by the advance of the Front National Marine Le Pen in France. An advance for now only on the edge, but whose strength sounds the red alarm for traditional Europeanism and opens the door to the disintegration of the Union. The problems to be faced are enormous. There is no agreement on quotas for refugees, as there is no agreement on joint control of the external borders and on the need for greater flexibility in the management of a blind and obtuse Stability Pact, which has impoverished the productive classes in recent years and made Europe an area of rigour without development. And what does the European Commission do? With the latest annual analysis of the economic situation only accentuates the dirigism of the rules by downloading new demands on the Member States, but forbids Member States to intervene in order to compensate for market failures. This is not only a two-speed Europe: it is a Europe of double-tracks and double-weights and two measures, when it allows Germany to intervene for more than EUR 250 billion in order to save its banks and instead considers the use of the Italian interbank deposit protection fund as a state aid that violates Community rules. [[Applause from the AL-A Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u73	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u74	President Renzi, I have to admit one thing: you are very good at creating consensus. A few days ago I was at a dinner party, one of those classic dinners with militants, supporters and friends of the League. Among them was an entrepreneur, who told me: look, Centinario, I have decided that I am willing to support and finance the President of the Council and I will vote for it. I was a little surprised and I tried to understand what had happened, and he answered me: I have two children, if one makes me become a minister and then makes me an ad hoc reform for my company, I support it quietly and without problems [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] ). If you will, President, I will give you the name of the person in question. You, Mr President, come to the attention of your European partners with open problems. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. That was a joke. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Yeah, you get that now? It takes a while to figure it out. I'm gonna tweet you, President, so you can figure it out! You are faced with three open problems, including, of course, an important problem, that of the infringement for the long period of identification of the so-called refugees. It takes from one year to eighteen months to be received by the Territorial Commission and from forty-five days to four months to receive the reply; in the event of expulsion, therefore with a negative result, the applicant may repeat the same procedure. It is therefore normal for Europe to be taking us back for such a long time. The problem is that these data are not provided by the League, but by the technicians who work and who deal daily with the problem of immigration. Everyone knows that in Italy, journalists, politicians, everyone, except, unfortunately, his Minister of the Interior, who - alas - is still there to unduly occupy that cadrega. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In the meantime, Mr President, these people who are in Italy at our expense are quiet at the hotel, do nothing and live blessed waiting for someone to decide for them. Well, Mr President, at a time when we have more than 40% youth unemployment and 10 million Italians below the poverty line, perhaps spending a few more euros to increase the number of committees that should do this work and thus speed up the procedures for identifying so-called refugees - as you call them - should be a moral act towards Italian citizens! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group).]] Unfortunately, however, it takes Europe, your Europe, to remind you that you must do your duty and work in Italy. Another problem that you will find open on the table when you meet your colleagues in Europe is the conditional opinion on the law of stability. Again, President, it is not the League, it is not the Five Stars, with whom you are closing a nice agreement on the Constitutional Court, it is not the opposition or the fake opposition, but it is Europe that is telling you that you are wrong, that you are producing further debt. Everyone in Italy is telling you this, but if Italy doesn't trust you, Europe is telling you it too. The fake reforms, which in Italy you are dealing with as determinants, at least in Europe have not enchanted anyone. They're beautiful. You have made a good reference to all the reforms you are making and I remind you of them, because they are reforms that must remain in the minds of the Italians, especially when they go to vote: the 80 euros to the less well-off Italians; the 500 euros to keep teachers good during the fake reform of good school, which we have seen to be a huge disaster; the 500 euros for the eighteen, because, poor, they have to go to theatre and museums. I remind you that in museums there are days dedicated to students and, as a result, students enter for free. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] If you have Minister Franceschini say it, he goes around saying he is a technician, but he doesn't even know that in museums you enter for free: not in exhibitions, in museums. Then there are the 80 euros to the Forces of Order: after you have massacred them in every way, we give them 80 euros, so maybe they also remain silent. Then, in view of the elections, we propose to give you a bonus for the blonde Italians, one for the dying Italians, one for the skinny and another for the fat ones, one for the black ones and one for the yellows, the reds and the blues, so as to allow everyone to have their own personal bonus. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] So, President Renzi, when he arrives in the elections you can say that you have made structural reforms for the Italians! Then there is the third problem, which is the biggest and most important problem, namely the problem of banks. In this regard, we are of the opinion that someone who is not here today should resign. If he had any dignity, someone should resign here. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] There have been three excellent cases: former Minister Idem, former Minister Lupi and former Minister Cancellieri, but - alas, colleagues - they were not part of the Florentine magic lily of our President-in-Office of the Council and, as a result, they have been destroyed, worse than the pieces on their feet. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] But it's okay. That's okay, because on November 16, 2013, Minister Boschi, intervening on the Chancellors case in the television show "Dancerò" said: "I would resign in his place"; "It's the question of trust in the institutions." It gives itself the image of a country where the law is not the same for all. These are the words of Mr Boschi. As a result, someone here should resign if they had a minimum of dignity, Mr President. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Gasparri]] We have heard, Mr President-in-Office, your statements after the suicide of the pensioner who lost all his savings by buying the bonds of Bank Etruria. At Leopolda, you said that you disgust those who speculate about people's deaths. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would not stop here and I would also say, if I were you, that I disgust those who destroy the savings of over 10,000 Italian families. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Gasparri]] The problem is that you did not say so, Mr President. And what do you say to me, Mr President, about when the photo of little Aylan, the dead child on the beach of Turkey, the Turkey you want to take to Europe, was at the Unity Festival in September this year? President Renzi, do you remember that picture or do you have a short memory? In the meantime, more than 100 children have died. Perhaps you are the one who speculates about the death of people, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It makes me sad to see your smiles with Chancellor Merkel and then, when there is to intervene on our banks, Germany says that if we do it we are state aid, while, if they do it, everything is fine. Instead of smiling, Mr Renzi, why don't you ask Chancellor Merkel how many billion European money he used in Germany to help his banks? The last rescue in Germany was authorised on 19 October for HSH Nordbank, with a state guarantee of three billion euros. Is this the Europe that your friend Merkel wants, with which you continue to smile? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. President, does your friend Merkel know that the bank of her friends - the one mentioned above - is the same one in which the Primavera account of the P2 loggia was located? You reminded him, did you tell his friends? Mr President, when I was a kid, I thought that the Left was defending the weakest, and when I heard that at Leopolda last week you said that the Democratic Party flag was tattooed in your heart, I made a small reflection, as an ignorant, as a peripheral legist: it will be the red flag, which tattooed in your heart, or red also added blue and white, the colors of another state, the Cayman Islands, the famous tax paradise, from where perhaps some of your friends in London speculated on our popular banks, enriching themselves, while tens of thousands of Italian savers lost the sacrifices of a whole life? I hate this, ma'am! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. The Senators of the LN-Aut Group display a banner and signs bearing the writings: "Scarred savers, saved bankers," "Scarred savers," "Scarred savers," "Renzi shame"]] ==References====External links==* Official website PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, the assistants and the quaestors, please intervene. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] EXPOSED Stefano (PD). It's the clown of the century! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's no joke now, that's enough! Senator Fattorini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u75	Mr President, after this painful performance, let's get back to the point. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-IPI groups and Senator Bencini.]] [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] Mr Renzi, you have reminded us that this European Council is the first after the events in Paris and after an incredible year, which is not worthy of these scenes. An incredible year, not only for Charlie Hebdo, but also for Greek events, the Ukrainian crisis, the flow of refugees. It is extraordinary that the spirit and also the letter of the Treaty are interrogated, because the European Council must not be the place of technical choices solely administrative, but, as the Treaty literally says, a place where the general political guidelines and priorities of the Union are defined. That is what the Treaty says. You will therefore do well, Mr President, when you remind my fellow Europeans of the need to fly high, as you have told us, to understand what is now the absolute novelty that lies on those three levels of security, diplomacy and military commitment. I am speaking of extraordinaryness because we are faced with terrorism - as we have heard so many times in recent months - completely new, a terrorism that becomes a state, that becomes an army and because we are faced with a migration - and this we have also heard, seen, suffered, with precise faces, with children that we remember, dear Hundreds - of biblical proportions by quantity and also by nature, because - I always address you, dear Hundreds - the people who run away from there are not only looking for work, but also looking for life. [[Applause from the PD Group]] They run from death: they are people like us, people who had a job, who had a social identity, a normal life. That's the truth: I'm not here on vacation. Faced with an epochal phenomenon - I do not like the word "epochal" because as a historian I know how abused it is, but it defines the scope and nature of this phenomenon - the Dublin rules, which have been built for a world that is no longer there, are not enough. We will, of course, have to respond to our infringements; we will have to speed up the process, but not just with that shortsighted and restrictive logic. It has also been said that terrorism is not a consequence of migration, this is only said by the League in an always idiotic statement. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). You idiot! FATTORINI (PD). I didn't insult people but ideas, which are the ones that matter. Terrorism is born in the outskirts, which are a concrete and very symbolic place. We speak of the peripheries, rightly, for our urban realities, banlieu, a place of degradation and despair, but we must understand them as the peripheries of the world, all the places where this disastrous sociality takes place. Bergoglio understood this well when, with a historical-political far-sightedness and not only merciful, he went to open the Jubilee in the heart of black Africa, that Africa that is our conscience, our bad conscience; an Africa that for Italy must be increasingly the center of our cooperation, our concern, our investments and our energy research. On Christmas Eve, Italy, in the wake of its European tradition, expects Brussels, the European leaders, to have a vision, a high capacity, that is, to live up to these great issues. In this sense, the initiative that will bring together the Foreign Ministers of the six founding countries, who will meet in Rome in January to relaunch the European project with this depth. I am very concerned about this problem: you have said very well and not only here, Mr President, but also in many places recently after the attacks in Paris (I have mentioned the speech you gave at the conference on the Mediterranean countries or also, the next day, at the Accademia dei Lincei), that the challenge is essentially cultural, moral and identity. We also feel this, but we must fill it with content. True: the terrorists attacked the schools, theaters, our museums, our monuments, our identity, all our religions: not only the churches, but also the synagogues and mosques. Many people today wonder if we are really facing a religious confrontation or if this does not mask presumptuously a lack of social integration. You spoke of the sociological reason, saying that there is not only a sociological cause; of course, it is more cultural and religious, but unfortunately today the two are interwoven in an inextricable way. This is the true novelty of the phenomenon, different from what we discussed in the 1990s, when, on Huntington's thesis, there was talk of confrontation of civilizations in a somewhat ideological way, by American theoconservatives. This time the two plans are real and there are both; there is also the religious and cultural one, which requires the effort of which we have said and not only more culture, but also more interreligious dialogue, together with social integration and defence. We need it in our countries and in the heart different socialities of our children, as are the concerts, that for example in Rome go a lot in the suburbs because we have this fashion very different from Paris, where they are ghettized, in our schools, in the squares, in the places we know. However, even then we must not do something rhetorical; we must talk about a mature multiculturalism in schools, which obviously is not subordinate to politically correct, but not arrogant. For this reason it is important to train teachers, not only in an ideological way on different food and religions, but precisely with an intercultural and interreligious breath, and invest in places of aggregation. For example, on Sunday, on the occasion of the initiative "Many banquets in a thousand squares" I heard about the mosques in the garages and how irritating the tenants, who at the same time are also intrigued by these small mosques, found in a garage and who have this muezzin, very boring in the evening, that intrigues so much. I quote a small reality to say, that we must not isolate Muslims and not for a good ideology, but to bring them out, to give them visibility, to give them a recognition without - and I conclude on this point - patetically water down our roots, our symbols, our nativity scenes, of which so much is spoken in these times, because only those who have a strong identity are capable of a real dialogue and not rhetorical and not only demonstrative as the League does. These young terrorists are recruited by crude preachers who exploit their sense of exclusion, so it is also crucial for intelligence to create a relationship with the imams, which we call moderate but would be better to say spiritual. Then there is the theme of a new diplomacy. It has been well said that there has been a turning point, with a presence both in Vienna on Syria and, recently, at the conference on Libya in Rome. There has been continuity with the best tradition, not with the most recent one, but with the far-sighted one that we have also expressed on Turkey with several Presidents and which is again being strengthened with the Atlantic allies, but with the non-exclusion of Russia. You say well, President Renzi: the military missions detached from this overall vision serve little. I conclude, dear President, by saying that the call for culture, which I fully share, so that it does not remain extrinsic must be strengthened by a true demonstration that we are not stunned by what you have called nihilism, relativism, a liquid civilization. We must demonstrate that we are not like this, that we are not liquid relativists and that our values, for example tolerance, the true one, are not a weak thought, but can be very powerful if combined with piety and solidarity, which are not only religious values but are profoundly secular. We must show that freedom, of which we are proudly bearers, is rooted in responsibility and not in the void, that rights do not exist without duties. Well, we're all that. This is Europe, its history, its spirit, its pride. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have appreciated your words and I agree with what you have said about Europe, as well as, more generally, the call for balance and common sense that you have repeatedly made over the past few weeks. As the Paris attacks teach us, it is important to remove the causes that allow Islamist fundamentalism to cook into those European suburbs where social malaise is great. Of course, this is not in any way an alibi or a justification, but it is clear that, alongside strong repressive measures, policies must be created to counter the social conflicts that unfortunately characterize many European suburbs. I believe, just as we had the opportunity to discuss during the summit of the Special Group of the Mediterranean and the Middle East (GSM) held a few weeks ago in Florence, that fundamentalism can be defeated only through an articulated device of contrast, in which different elements have the same weight and strategic importance. We need an extraordinary cultural offensive, of course, to reaffirm the centrality of human rights and, in particular, of women, so brutally trampled on in those territories occupied today by fundamentalists. But above all, a strong international alliance is needed, with an active involvement of all countries, starting with Saudi Arabia (where, moreover, the next summit of one of the sub-committees of NATO will take place) and the Muslim communities that feel our same dismay in the face of such distorted and violent use of their religious message. The recent tensions between Turkey and Russia have been a setback to this objective, but we cannot let it go. We must attack all the Daesh's funding channels and strike those who buy their oil, those who give them rich donations, those who sell them weapons and complacent banks that allow money to circulate. Above all, we must not repeat the mistakes made in the past in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya. Defeat Islamist totalitarianism must only be an intermediate stage; the ultimate goal must be the political and institutional stabilisation of all the territories involved today. On this we must equip ourselves immediately with a system of alliances on the territory, with the real support of all countries that today say they are ready to play their part against the so-called Islamic State. Even more united Europe - as you well said - is especially called upon to play a role of absolute centrality on this point. As far as our country is concerned - and I associate myself with its expressions of appreciation - great attention must be paid to the Libyan situation, which involves us closely. The Caliphate's attempt to move from Raqqa to Sirte's operational headquarters is proof that Libya will become strategic for the fight against terrorism. We must absolutely avoid that, as today there are millions of Syrians ready to leave, we are not soon with as many Libyans ready to sail for Italy. I also agree with you when you say that Italy must make its voice heard at the European Council. Finally, we need to increase internal controls and increase resources for the Forces of Order, as in part has been done with this law of stability. We need to make sure that our intelligence has all the tools we need to be able to carry out its valuable preventive work to the full, as you have shown with the cell that has been killed in Merano and with other operations that have taken place these days. I hope that our country will play its part with common sense and intelligence, two qualities that, even after the attacks in Paris, seem not to be lacking in this Government. Thank you and good work. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u78	Senator Repetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today Europe is facing dramatic challenges, which are testing our democracy and our future: an economic crisis that is eroding the entire social fabric, the endless martyrdom of Africa, with mass migration, and the threat of terrorism. In the face of this scenario there have been reactions of fear that are changing all the political paradigms. In this respect, the French vote is significant: the democratic forces of the right and left have found the strength to unite to stop the advance of an extreme right movement, with xenophobic and anti-European impulses. This is a fact that until recently no one could have predicted. But what is more important is that it was not the agreements between political forces or the wrongs that made this new possible, as someone called them, but the will of the voters. After all, overcoming the old fences is a trend that occurs both in Europe and in the United States. In Germany, the government has been formed for years by an alliance between conservatives and social democrats. Also in Italy the Government is based on an alliance between its Democratic Party, President Renzi, and a center-right formation. In the United States, even in a different context, the extreme positions of a part of the Republicans, such as those of Donald Trump, are opposed by Democrats, but also by many Republicans. In short, unpublished economic and international problems, together with a radicalisation of right-wing positions, push towards the formation of alliances based on democratic and liberal values. In Europe, this challenge, in order to be won, requires a leap forward from the European Union, which must put at its centre economic development policies, a united defence policy and a common strategy to defeat the Daesh. If that does not happen, I fear that right-wing forces, even momentarily defeated, could take a dangerous revenge in the near future. For this reason, the role of Italy and its Government, President Renzi, in Europe today is so important with regard both to economic issues, to the fight against terrorism, and, finally, to the construction of a new international order, as evidenced by the positive negotiations on Libya. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senators Vaccari and Vattuone]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u80	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u81	Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, as President Renzi said, there will shortly be the first meeting of the European Council after the Paris massacre. I would like to remind you that, after the Paris massacre, we in this House had undertaken to strengthen our security system and our police forces. Well, what did the President-in-Office say in his speech? We have heard that attention is focused on perception and the image of security. During his speech to the House of Deputies, the President of the Council said that we need facial recognition software. But then, after we recognize them, these dangerous terrorists, President Renzi, by what means do we go to get them? With the ones who are still because there's no maintenance money? President Renzi, in Catania it is the magistrates who pay the gasoline of the armored cars that bring them to the bunker room. Mr President, we cannot joke about this. You said here that no one has ever invested so much in security. We have EUR 490 million in cuts that are replaced by what, President? From a paycheck to law enforcement? After six years of contractual blocking, do we give as a gift what is due for the right of these women and men who risk their lives for us, Mr President? Do you know what it's called in Sicily when you please pass what's due by right? We know it well what it is called and it is certainly not called the "State of Law." It's called something else. Our problem in Europe, which you have highlighted well, has been a matter of credibility. Why have we been put out of all the tables in Europe? Because previous governments had no credibility and we know what the serious gap in credibility was. We acknowledge that we have begun to be present at the tables, like that of Vienna, and we are happy with the meeting in Rome last days. But, Mr President, what are the results of these presences? I understand that in foreign policy we need patience and we cannot achieve things overnight, but, President, I do not think that a country like ours can go to Europe to talk about security by saying that security is achieved with theaters and actors. Those are your words, President. These are his words: you have to invest in a videomaker. So, we in the Five Star Movement that hired Nik the Black, did we contribute to the security of the state? Do you realize? If we in the 5 Star Movement had said something like that, they would have attacked us and they would have done well. Let us not venture to go to Europe with these proposals because we are not credible. Please, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let me tell you this in the interests of our country. It is not possible to deal with the subject in this way. We must also talk about Europe. In Europe we still face a very serious problem, called 2012, when two countries of Europe attacked Italy economically with the spread war. Mr President, that is something we must always say. They forced us into debt, when we were already in trouble, by imposing an unwanted government, by snatching the legitimate President-in-Office of the Council by the majority of the time and imposing one from abroad. Is this the Europe with which we are going to discuss? So, you say it right here and you don't want smiles with these words because. If our economy has gone down in Europe and someone else's has gone well, it is because, there has been an economic war. The idea of Europe was born after the two European civil wars so that Europeans would no longer be massacred in arms, but that does not mean that we should not react to economic attacks. That is not possible, Mr President. The position of the 5 Star Movement has been very clear: we, Mr President, must get out of this vision that we have. Let us take advantage of the opportunity, even the saddest, to make low-level internal policy. Forgive me, you don't want to make controversy but you can't give 80 euros instead of investing on what men and women in uniform ask, which are means and tools, gasoline: it's the stupid and stupid things they serve. This is very serious right now. We were ready - and we told you this - to vote on these measures, but we cannot but tell you that when you talk about culture, then they come to the House amendments such as the one - which, I am glad to say, has been cancelled - to give money to the usual Cultural Foundation of the wife of a PD Member. It is not a question of polemics, but we must remind them here. Is this the fight against terrorism we want to do? I say that the government of my country must present itself in Europe in a credible manner. And it is not credible that we send a contingent of men to Mosul, the stronghold in Syria of ISIS, for a dam badly built that an Italian company must restructure. But let's hope it's not a feat of those who build bridges in Sicily, otherwise that dam really collapses! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And not for ISIS, don't sell us this news, because the first thing that overwhelms that dam is ISIS itself! It's okay that they're gonna be suicidal, but a million suicides all at once aren't credible! So let's face it: all we got from the Vienna table is that the Americans would ask for boots on the ground in Syria again. And we should not have agreed to this, we could not allow it, not without a parliamentary debate. Because if we ask ourselves what our missions have been abroad, we are not attacking the men and women in uniform, who give their lives and who are stabbed in the back by politics. No, Mr. President! We are asking for an account of what happened in Afghanistan in fourteen years of war. What solved that war? Nothing. It's done more damage than it used to be. The world is no longer safe after fourteen years of war in Afghanistan. You say it right. We need a bigger picture, we need a program, we need a project. But this Europe has gone in order scattered. Those who left first to bomb, those who queued for second (at least we avoided this, but not the troops on the ground) Let us go to Europe and say that we Europe, which moves the economic war to the European states, do not want it. Either we change course or we don't. Say that, Mr President, in Europe! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u82	Senator Alicata is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u83	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have listened with due attention to yet another industrial production of words to be consumed, indifferently, between old disused railway stations, party rooms or, if necessary, in a Chamber which retains, despite it, a certain sacredness. A sad rite, the one that precedes today the other hollow liturgy that will be consumed in the coming hours in Brussels, in that other place of useless and inconclusive verbosity that is the European Council, unable to express to this day a common foreign and defence policy. We are using a ceremony in this House which is yet another alibi for a government, the one you chaired, whose foreign policy is ignored. It is a weak policy, mainly the driving force of the European Union and, in general, our allies who allow themselves, as in the case of France, which is responsible for Libyan chaos, to give and give them, in recent days, even advice on how to deal with that scenario. A role, precisely, deficit starting from Libya, where its Government, for example, did nothing and did nothing when, in the summer of 2014, a coup d'état forced the legitimate Government to flee to Tobruk, although having had Italy, at the time of its predecessor, unofficial mandate to deal with Libya by the US State Department, as is known in the secret rooms. At least the vain hopes of joining the UN Security Council with this stuttering and irrelevant foreign policy sound. And it is not enough the continuous demand, in words, to yearn for a leading role in the management of the post-Libyan chaos, if anything it should happen, nor even the laudable initiative of the Foreign Minister of recent days in Rome, so that we can arrive as soon as possible at the definition of a unitary Government. We are, at the moment, relegated to the rank of gregarians, dedicated to the most disparate verbal contortions to avoid calling things by the real name, despite the clamorous and tragic events of the past weeks, from Paris onwards, impose to speak of war, with our country possible objective. However, you must note that you are likely to face something bigger than yourself, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. But precisely because of this, we would like to invite you to be more serious when dealing with sensitive issues relating to collective security. And it is not with the announcements, proclamations or electoral tips that the closure of stations of carabinieri, police and police stations and with the staff reduced by 45,000 units, in the while there is an emergency terrorism. Nor can the cultural response to combat terrorism be sufficient, even if it is not a joke, since it is certainly not the best of wit if we do not understand that to have cultural answers we need generations, and we do not have all this time. In the same way, his answer on the possible participation of our country in the raid cannot be shared, not because expression of pavidity, but because of ignorance in not understanding the delicate problem. You said: "A precise strategy for the post is necessary first, otherwise a new Libya will be risked." But that is not the case: there was no ISIS in Libya when Gaddafi was decided to be shot down. In Iraq there was no ISIS when it was decided to take down Saddam Hussein. It was a resounding mistake to wage war on those secular regimes, which were an embankment to Islamic fundamentalism, a war that our country was forced to participate only by international obligations. It was a mistake not to think about the consequences that we would have suffered especially on our skin, so it must remind the conscience to those who still today, among these cracks, desperately try to get out of the responsibilities of which he was a deleterious advocate. Just as it should be noted the over-archism of Heads of State and Western Chancellors who endorsed the infamous Arab Springs, until the useless atmosphere of hostility towards Russia, useful ally instead in the war on terrorism. In Syria, President Renzi, unlike what happened in Gaddafi's Libya, there is a dangerous and brutal enemy that must be defeated at all costs, before Assad's eventual defen extraction. But it does not seem that this has been understood by the parts of your Government, whereas it would be an important topic to be strongly supported in Europe. The enemy defeats itself by establishing an alliance that goes from the West to Russia, thus overcoming as soon as possible the tensions between the Atlantic Alliance and the Russian Federation, whose support is fundamental against the common enemy. Therefore, make a commitment to immediately remove the sanctions against Russia, because we cannot always and in any case comply with President Obama's wishes when they are deleterious for the world and for our country. In fact, we cannot invoke Russia's support and at the same time sanction it, hurting their pride and our economic interests; nor can we fight ISIS and at the same time Assad, whose armed forces are the only ones present on the ground. On migratory phenomena, then, what is the attitude of this Government, apart from the blog and the now unpleasant molasses of good rhetoric? In the meantime, public opinion has now made it clear that behind the façade of furry solidarity lies the money business that ends up with associations, ONLUS and government area cooperatives, in addition to the painful market of votes and shame that Ministers of this Government have never tried, despite having had more than one opportunity. And no merit can this Government be attributed to the change of attitude of the European Union. Mrs Merkel, who is a statesman and is not the President of the Chamber of Deputies, has cunningly reserved entry for Syrian displaced persons only, i.e. those who are more educated and more available to work and integration, excluding others, economic migrants from Africa. The European Union is still debating quotas to be reallocated, while certifying what we already knew, namely that the multitude of migrants landed in Italy is not identified. The tens of thousands of migrants who land are not fingerprinted, of which we know nothing about their criminal and health history. We have to have a good face to say that there are no risks of terrorist infiltrations, without, however, respecting the commitments to open the new hotspots and the obligation to take fingerprints. It is true that tens of thousands of lives have been saved with naval ferry operations which, however, have stimulated the flow and therefore the dead, without in any way harming the power of the criminal organizations that manage the traffic, also financing terrorism. In this regard, Mr Renzi, take advantage of this European summit to explain to our partners that the European operation EUNAVFOR Med has at the moment been almost a failure, as it is ineffective in relation to the objectives set. And the objectives were those of the repression of human trafficking, even with interventions in Libyan territory. There was an initial intelligence phase which involved the gathering of information, which they said was successful, but we are waiting for the other phases that will not be easy to arrive and that are the core of the problem. At the moment, however, there are no conditions, there is no Libyan Unitary Government and the subsequent UN resolution authorising the other phases. Therefore, Prime Minister, the mission must at least be suspended until the conditions for the other stages are met. You save money to spend, possibly for our Forces of Order, maybe buying a few extra bulletproof vests and a few liters more gasoline. You remind your partners once again that today the real drama is at the centre of the Mediterranean, as we denounced a few months ago also to the Secretary-General of NATO Stoltemberg, who insisted on giving priority to the issue of the East border. It is a little comforting to note that what we already said at the time is now also recognized by NATO and the other European allies, who, to be honest, did not recognize it even on the occasion of the famous and praised Italian-led European semester, which has passed unnecessarily for the interests of our country. Today the European Union is aware of this epochal phenomenon also because in the meantime refugees have used other land routes and also invaded their countries. Better late than never. Thank you, Mr President, we wish you every success at tomorrow's summit. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u84	We greet the students and students of the Liceo Classico (Classical High School) with an annex Scientific High School (Pietro Paolo Parzanese) by Ariano Irpino (Avellino), who follow our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u85	She is registered to speak Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, frankly, I am speaking not only on behalf of my Group but also on my own behalf. I welcome the way in which the Government is dealing with the European dossier on migration and I will stick to this issue only, although we know that it is only one of the issues that will be the subject of the European Council on 17 and 18 December. In fact, it seems to me that the government is escaping what I see as a risk, often echoing in this House or recurring in the event that European policy issues are being addressed, that is to say to continue to oppose a Europe that is not there, an abstract Europe, about which we say all the good that is possible, to the Europe that exists, about which, instead, we say all the evil that is possible. I give you grace for the many examples I could also give. On the other hand, it seems to me that it continues to persist in the public debate not only this double risk, but also another risk, which is that of political exploitation. Now, I confess that I did not understand the intervention of Senator Giarrusso (of course I am not up to it), but one thing I understood: his instrumental controversy - which has not been isolated - on security issues, that is, on the security policy of this Government in recent years. I have made provision to refer to concrete texts in order to be able to counter the objections that have been made here and I must say at once that we are operating - this Government has found itself operating - in a particularly difficult and uncomfortable framework, because we had to recover the policies that had been put in place between 2009 and 2013 exactly on the issues of security and defence. The most significant ones concern the period 2009-2011. At that time, in fact, about four billion euros were cut, between security and defence. In 2010 the salary ceilings were frozen and in 2009 the turnover was blocked at 20 percent. Let us see, instead, what has happened recently. With the 2014 Act of Stability the turnover coverage was raised to 55 percent (so we went from 20 to 55 percent), for all police forces and fire department. Moreover, for the year 2014, the recruitment of 2,600 units was authorised, within the police forces, while the resources destined to the economic ancillary treatment of the police forces were increased, for 2014, by 100 million euros, and for the biennium 2014-2015 126 million euros were allocated for the infrastructural needs, including the Expo. Subsequently, with Legislative Decree No. 8 of 2014, the possibility of recruitment of police forces was anticipated to 2015 without the need to have served in the armed forces before and, therefore, since 2016, the possibility of public competitions for the entry into the State Police for all citizens has been restored. Again, with the decree on stadium violence, 36 million euros were allocated for 2015 and 44 million euros for each year, from 2016 to 2021. Again, with the Stability Act for 2015, it was planned to release remuneration and start the revision of the National Framework Police Agreement, which, as you know, was an absolutely awaited measure. Again, in the 2014 budget we had an increase of 700 million euros and, with the decree local authorities, has been arranged the hiring of 2,500 operators in the police force. This is for the sake of restoring the truth. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Having said that, I think that any reasoning on the issues of migration and terrorism and, above all, on the role of Europe and on European policies on these issues must first of all deal with two basic facts. First of all, we are often unaware that the common European migration policy is very young: it starts about six months ago. It begins with Juncker's statements when he takes over the Presidency of the European Commission and goes on, of course, with a commitment to policies, which I believe colleagues who are minimally attentive to what is happening can see. In all this, Italy has played a central role. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We want to acknowledge once and for all that, precisely because of the fact that Italy has been so exposed to the phenomenon of migration and has responded with so much generosity and also with so much capacity - let's say - our participation in the development of immigration policies has been so effective and recognized - let me say - by all the European countries? The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which I chair - and my fellow members, of all the Groups, can testify to this - is carrying out a cognitive investigation that is also touching the various European capitals and there is no country in which the role that Italy has exercised and is exercising, on the ground and in the construction of European policies is being ignored. Of course, we are in a phase in which the interweaving of immigration and terrorism issues exists, but not in the form that requires very strict control of the fact that, with migratory flows, terrorists can also arrive. This is obvious, but as we have seen and as the President-in-Office of the Council has said, subjects, European citizens, who carry out terrorist acts show how fragile this link would be to support such radical policies, such as those that Europe intends to put in place and to which we must cooperate. Of course, this combination leads to extraordinary fear, and we cannot fail to see that this fear is leading to events that really - as my colleague reminded us just now - risk breaking down the idea of Schengen itself: the construction of walls in Europe, the closure of borders are the most antithetical to an idea of Europe we could have imagined. But they are not our worst nightmares and even the exorcisms that can get us out of this trouble: if you are afraid of the dark you have to walk the corridor in the dark a hundred times until your eyes are able to distinguish the forms and dangers you have on your way. It seems to me that we are precisely trying to face matters with lucidity and clarity of intent and that we are acting knowing that paralysis is our enemy and that looking for a safe place that does not exist does not help us. I am thinking and wondering whether we Europeans - and I am referring not only to our country but to the citizens of Europe as a whole - are able to see Europe as it is also seen by those who are aiming for terrorism towards Europe. Europe appears to them as a unique reality, a single territory united by values, cultures, ways of life and economy. It is incredible that Europe appears to be united with all our enemies and that it is not united with all of us Europeans. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] I want to address an issue immediately because we are obviously on a very difficult road, in spite of those who may think that the effort that has taken place with the European agenda is a downhill road: every day we encounter stumbling blocks, difficulties, disillusionments, bitterness; every day we face mortifications, but the only way we have to overcome all this is to continue to stand at that table to affirm our role and the strength of our proposal. Someone here raised the issue of the infringement procedure, wanting to make an affront to the government, its credibility for the way in which migration policies have been addressed and the migratory wave. Each of us sees the great limits with which a country exposed as Italy found itself facing the issue, as well as the limits of an organization that was not perfect and that also showed holes and negativity. But it is working on these critical issues that we can use to live up to the situation, and I must say that Commissioner Avramopoulos' visit last Friday and the words of encouragement and recognition that he addressed to our country have been very comforting. The question of the sanction, imposed on Italy together with three other countries for non-compliance with the Eurodac Regulation, must frankly be reduced to its essential reality. Unlike other countries, we do not have a frontier behind which to align those who must be identified; we should throw them all back at sea. In this regard, I would also like to tell an episode that has been reported to us in audition by the Chief of Police, Dr. Pansa, who told us that the boatmen, along with the ticket, give the migrants a leaflet with instructions for use, where they say not to be identified, to tighten their fists in such a way that they can not take their fingerprints (which, moreover, taken by force, are not usable, because obviously the imprint is not that usable for the purposes of identification). That is precisely the point on which our Government will have to return to the European Council in the next few days, that is to say on overcoming the Dublin III Regulation, because the question is the basis of the unwillingness to be identified due to the continued existence of a rule whereby the persons identified in a place, only in that place will be able to ask for asylum and, as we know, Italy is a country of transit. I conclude with three proposals that I believe I can submit to the government, precisely because this seems to me to be the approach with which our Executive will sit at the table. These are three proposals closely linked to the objectives of the European agenda. The first proposal is as follows: at such a difficult time for the European Public Prosecutor and Minister Orlando knows something about it - I believe that Italy should relaunch the model of the National Anti-Mafia Authority and demand that the competence of the European Public Prosecutor be extended from crimes that harm the financial interests of the Union, including terrorist offences. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] We are preparing for security and police policies, so I think this is an important issue. The second proposal concerns a common European asylum model, because it comes directly from the external border security policy that will be the subject of the European Council. I also urge myself to talk about a common European integration model, because that is the only way we can match it. Finally, Mr Renzi, I would like to ask you for an act of this Government, which I am convinced would certainly be welcomed among the members of the Commission whom I have the honour to chair, but also among all those who want to put themselves on this issue with reasonableness, sensibleness and intelligence. The subject is as follows: the violation of illegal entry into the territory of the State must be abolished, because it is of no use. [[Applause from Senator Lo Moro]] Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Bravo! Bravo! FINOCCHIAR (PD). This provision, on the other hand, transforms all those who are migrants who are the victims of human trafficking into co-defendants of related crime. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE). Comments of Senator Arrigoni]] This hinders investigations and processes, hinders investigations against human traffickers and helps to maintain human trafficking as the main source of funding for international terrorism. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups) and Mixed groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u87	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I would like to inform the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1, No 2 by Senator Calderoli, No 3 by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller, No 3, Senator Centinario and other Senators, No 4, Senator De Petris and other Senators, No 5, Senator Bonfrisco and other Senators, No 6, Senator Giarrusso and other Senators, and No 7 by Senator Romani Paolo and other Senators. The lyrics are in distribution. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Dr Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u88	Mr President of the Senate, kind senators and senators, my reply will also be very brief in order to allow the debate to continue. I also know that there are further appointments in Parliament at the joint sitting tonight. However, I would like to thank you, because the level of the debate has been interesting in many respects, from the first speech of Senator Romani Maurizio and continuing with the considerations of Senator Guerrieri Paleotti, which I share very much, on the relationship between the French vote and the economic situation. I am among those who believe that it affects much more on the analysis of the vote in France of the first round the economic situation of some areas of the country, than the terrorist threat. It is a consideration of course that I can express on a completely personal basis and that perhaps can see a cross-cutting sharing (probably we are minority). As I said, all the speeches were interesting, which were then concluded with that of President Finocchiaro who, on behalf of the Government, we greatly appreciated and on which we will reflect, being an intervention of concrete proposals as well as evaluations. But I want to do a couple of replicas, very fast and punctual. I would like to highlight, without any controversy but recalling all the unitary spirit we are capable of, in particular two elements of attention. To Senator Giarrusso, without any diatribe and controversy, I would like to say that saying that we adhere to Obama's invitation to put boots in Syria by intervening in Mosul is a contradiction: Mosul has been in Iraq for some time. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Viceconte]] I think it is necessary to stress and highlight an assessment on this point, because, if it is true that there is a very serious and very complex tension near that area, it is also true that it is the Iraqi Government of al-Abadi that is evaluating and verifying whether a large engineering company can fix the serious problem of the dam, to which we have referred. I would also like to say to Senator Alicata, with the utmost respect and esteem I have expressed for a shared foreign policy, that to argue that the interventions of 2003 and 2011 were questionable naturally concern the debate. I myself have made some assessments, which I have no way here to repeat (it wouldn't make sense, everyone has their own assessments). In both cases, however, I would like to point out to you, Senator Alicata, that the current leader of your party was at the head of the government. You say that there is a problem with our government, when in the two speeches you refer to as 'failures' - as you said - the President of the Council was the longest in the history of the seventy years of republican activity. I mean the longest in terms of parliamentary duration (then, in the case of the President himself, the term "longevo" can have a multiple meaning, being convinced of an existential longevity, which of course we all wish him, as to all the others, not only to him). We are talking about a President of the Council who has been in office for over three thousand days, so the record man; after him there are De Gasperi, Andreotti and all the others. Well, that President of the Council is the same one who led this country, both in 2003 and 2011. These were two clarifications I felt like doing. I conclude by sharing from A to Z the considerations of Senator Finocchiaro on the issues of the Forces of Order. I do not want to make controversy (it has already happened this morning in the House). Senator Finocchiaro has left to the acts of impregnable numerical considerations. Decree-Law No. 78 of 2010 is the one that blocks the contracts of the Forces of Order; I unblock it, as you know, in reality still has to be carried out in its entirety (it is the reform process of Minister Madia), but the fact that you go to give 80 euros each monthly to the members of the Forces of Order and Security forces is considered a tip only by those who do not know the value of 80 euros in everyday life. [[Applause from the PD and Misto-IpI Group and Senator Buemi.]] I believe that there must be a minimum respect for the expression 'tummy' and also for the lives of our fellow citizens. There is one point that I cannot help but touch, even if it is not in itself an element related to the debate of the European Council; in short, we will not talk about it tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. However, as for the senators of the North League, in particular Senator Centinario, I must also say with some natural malagrazia, he intended to impose on this Assembly with his speech a series of considerations on banks and the economic situation, reaching the point of showing signs, for the use and benefit of the cameras. Everyone naturally has his own assessment of the profound meaning of being a senator of the Republic, of being a member of the Government, of being a representative of the institutions. I believe that the idea of doing an intervention simply to wait for the moment when a sign is shown makes us much more similar to those who, in the breaks of the various rounds of the boxing, lengthen the signs with the number seven, eight or nine. I respect those assessments, though. There is, however, a key point on which I cannot compromise: when you write: "Scarred savers, rescued bankers," I would like the seriousness of numbers to take precedence over the exploitation for electoral purposes on this subject for a moment. I also think that Italians are far ahead of what we think and much more able to understand and do two things. I will not quote any bank, Senator Centinario, but the bank founded by his party and failed with the rescue by the People's Bank of Lodi. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] COUNCIL (LN-Aut). We paid for it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Quiet. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. The fact that you scream will not prevent me from continuing to speak. There have been people who have witnessed this debate. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). We paid for it! CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Pinocchio! [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] , President of the Council of Ministers. The fact that you make a noble reference, indicating me as an animal, will not prevent me from continuing my reasoning because I find it absolutely sacred that common sense and seriousness prevail. I'm going to give the numbers, since the insults and the offenses don't stop us... DIVINE (LN-Aut). Congratulations, Prince! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. The content of the decree-law that the Government approved in November, which will also be recovered and translated into an amendment to the bill of stability that (I want to see how it will lead to voting all of you), has allowed one million Italian savers to return to the bank on Monday and find their own money. If we had not adopted this decree-law - it is good to say with great force - by virtue of previously approved European rules and political choices of previous governments, not only those savers would not have found the bank, nor the current accounts, but 7,200 people would not have received the salary. [[Senator Candiani's comments.]] In his speech Senator Centinario said something that I share (like all broken watches, twice a day can mark the exact time). COUNCIL (LN-Aut). How dare you? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, let the President of the Council speak. You can't interrupt the speaker. Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. You said the nicest thing from the beginning, the rest were insults; saying "permit" instead of "animals" is already a step forward. The central point is that Chancellor Merkel has allocated resources to save the banks. It is true, Senator Centinaire, that has happened. We agree on that. I also say the figure: EUR 247 billion. It's a lot of money. Chancellor Merkel did this in the years it was allowed and possible. In the same years, the government you were a part of chose not to use this money to save the banks. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Centinario]] He saved Credieuronord, but he didn't save the banking system. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] On this point we must then make clear to the people who are outside. If at that stage you had invested the necessary money, there would have been no problem at all now. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] I want to say something else, because it has to be clear: against a million people who have been saved by this decree-law, there is no ad personam rule that has saved anyone else. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). A month ago! Mr Renzi, President of the Council of Ministers. The season of the laws ad personam, dear Senator Centinario, is over. This is demonstrated by the facts - it will be said next Friday or in the following days, when we are discussing the motion of individual distrust that you have tabled - and by the circumstance that this Government has intervened without looking to the face of anyone to commissary the banking realities that were in difficulty, thereby weakening the responsibilities of those whom you feel that we have helped to some extent; executive responsibilities. I would like to say it another way: we have taken the Etruria Bank into our own hands by not looking anyone in the face. We do not allow you to hear accusations of conflict of interest, because it does not exist. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC). Comments of Senator Fucksia]] I want to be very clear. If at last, after years and years, you fall in love with the expression 'conflict of interests', do us a courtesy: look at the numbers. Italians from home have the right to know something very simple and not only see your signs as aspiring hostess of boxing clashes. [[Comments of the M5S Group.]] Italians have the right to know that if the government had not done what it did, a million people would have seen their savings go to waste. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Since for years someone has thought of pretending nothing about the management of banks, let us know that on this side there is a Government that is not afraid of the truth and that, looking into your eyes, tells you: before questioning our action and our good faith, think that we saved a piece of Italy that you would have wanted to see without money and current accounts. [[Applause from the PD groups and Senator Buemi. The Senators of the LN-Aut Group show signs bearing the words: "Banchieri salvati." Renzi embarrassment!]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Buffoons, buffoons! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the quaestor senators to withdraw the cartels. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Better clowns than thieves. [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u89	I would ask the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u90	Mr President, I am against the motion for a resolution No 1, in favour of motion No 2 and against motions for resolutions Nos 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. AIROLA (M5S). You do them, then! What are you doing here? But let's go home!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u91	Senator Airola, these are opinions on the motions for resolutions you have tabled. AIROLA (M5S). We don't count anything, neither you nor I, President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, have a seat. AIROLA (M5S). President, you're less than me! Do it yourself in the Council of Ministers. Don't come to Parliament. This one you've set up is a dictatorship. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u94	BONFRISCO (CoR). Mr President, I do not know whether undersecretary Gozi has adequately reflected on the fact that all the groups have proposed different solutions to the communications from the President-in-Office of the Council and that a stony opinion is contrary to all resolutions other than those of the majority and I find it very contrary to the spirit in which a President of the Council and the entire Government take part in meetings of the European Union. [[Applause from Senator Mussini]] Mr Gozi, I would ask you to reflect on the seriousness of your statement, which has political implications related to and related to cohesion and sharing by the Government, including through this Parliamentary Assembly, with the entire country of problems and emergency, to which we all want to give the most just solution possible. There may then be different nuances, but his statement is an act of absolute disregard for the exercise of parliamentary activity which, compared to its citizens, brings here the contribution to his country and to the defense of the interest of his country. [[Applause from Senator Malan. Senator Airola's ironic applause at the Government's address]] In our motion for a resolution we have pointed out that some of the government's initiatives are certainly heading in the right direction (I hope it does not want to give an opinion against this too, Undersecretary Gozi). However, the Government is invited to influence more and better some trials, such as those that the Premier was able to explain very well a few minutes ago, but which assumed by his Government (where you work, undersecretary Gozi), as from the previous ones, a greater attention and a great defense of the Italian credit system, as I said during the debate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish your explanation of vote. You know you didn't have time and I gave it to you. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Di Maggio]] BONFRISCO (CoR). Thank you for your helpfulness and attention. Therefore, I call on Mr Gozi to review his simplistic and lapidary judgment, but I also call on all the groups to make an effort to support the government's work in that very important European Council. The explanation of vote, as far as our resolution is concerned, is for the Conservatives and Reformists, of course, in favour. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u97	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI)). Mr President, my explanation of vote is in accordance with the opinions that will then be expressed by the members of my Group, which, as is well known, is a very special group. I must admit that when Senator Finocchiaro in her speech began by saying 'I think that the government is escaping', she probably did not imagine that the President of the Council would actually escape. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI)]] and LN-Aut). It is a fugitive, because the President-in-Office of the Council is going to sit in Brussels tomorrow, after urging us, at the beginning of this debate, to discuss the philosophy of the European Union. He said himself not to dwell so much on the agenda, but the trouble is precisely on the agenda. The problems arise from the agenda, and the fact that he wanted to reply on the subject of banks, without being on the agenda, is to omit and not make it clear that he has been lying to public opinion for days and has been lying to Parliament for months! [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI)]] and LN-Aut). In fact, dear friends, the charitable intervention made by Senator Finocchiaro tended to conceal the fact that, in the case of warning about immigration, the Government is lying. This is attested by what Parliament has done; this is attested by the interventions made in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the cognitive survey of immigration by the members of the Democratic Party. I read, before they call it "gufo" all my life, the speech made on 4 June 2015 by my colleague Senator Cociancich, who, intervening on what the Chief of Police said there, says: "I would like to relate to the issue of identification," - this issue is not a new topic: in Parliament we have been discussing it for months and for months we know that there are problems on that subject - "which was one of the elements of the greatest controversy we had with our European partners, who reproach, subtrack, a lack of our ability to identify migrants." He asks Cociancich questions and asks for him to be reckoned with. We're at the Chief of Police's audition. Then there will be the hearing of the Commander General of the Carabinieri Army, the Commander General of the Finance Guard, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. But what does the Chief of Police say in answer? He says: It is clear that when last year - it is a hearing of the middle of 2015, so the reference is in the middle of 2014, and to the Renzi Government - the traffic of migrants has grown exponentially and suddenly, with landings of several thousands of people in a few days (...) the problem of identification caught us by surprise. Today the President of the Council in the House said that the European Union initiative is amazing! Like we're okay with everything. But the Chief of Police was more precise. For information, he reports that: With the passage of time we have organized ourselves; we have our method, our abilities have grown and, in recent times, we photograph about 80 percent of people. 80%, not 100%! And where's 20%? What has that 20% done these months? What will 20% do in the coming months? When the President-in-Office of the Council gives himself the right to sit at the table of the European Union by telling lies, what credibility will he give to the action of our Government? What credibility will it give to Italy's presence? That is the truth, because if we go to the agenda and finish with the theme of the supercock, which we have been hearing for months in a persistent way, it turns out that we do not have the cards in place, because there is a government that is failing and inadequate, that does not do what it should do. Therefore, the problem is not that the President-in-Office of the Council has no right to support the whole country and all parliamentary forces to support Italian positions in Europe. The problem is that your Government is not able to give operational consistency to those determinations, because it is a government of fried air. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI) and LN-Aut. Senator Cardinal's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u100	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, perhaps for the first time in this House the Premier has announced that security is one of the most important things. Mario Mauro, it's not a matter of months: the North League claimed the need to take fingerprints to be sure of those who have arrived in our country since 1990! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] However, since the Premier seems to have neither family nor past, I remember that the left, of which I think Renzi is eventually son or grandson or, in any case, the genesis was that, has always signalled excessive fanaticism and closure of the League against this phenomenon. Now all Italians are obliged to pay sanctions because they do not take fingerprints. We need to know who's coming to this country. We probably do not have the record of America where Mr. Earl has been arrested more than a thousand times; but how many people have been arrested several times not knowing exactly who they were and not being able to charge them with a relapse? To President Renzi we want to say that we have understood one thing: he has a lot of desire to chat. Probably those who have so much time to lose can have fun listening to him, but to us objectively it seems that President Renzi is here in passing, as if to do tests, even gestures, for another of his future activities that he sets himself, but perhaps only he has in mind. (at 6 p.m.) (Follow DIVINE). He comes here and boasts of the results of growth. The economic data say that the low price of oil, for some time now, has generated a point and a half of GDP. If Renzi comes to tell us that we're making a 0.9%, it means that if this hadn't happened... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u101	It must conclude because the time available to it is exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u102	DIVINE (LN-Aut). If there had not been this event, we would still be negative for 0.6 points. What is the merit of the reforms? If there has been a bit of economic recovery, it is also thanks to a revaluation of the dollar on the euro that has allowed companies exporting to have a minimum margin. Direct message to the President-in-Office of the Council: no one here is a fool; no abuse of our patience. The behavior she has adopted at this juncture also makes us draw a conclusion: we have a stage Premier. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u105	D'ANNA (AL-A). Mr President, in the absence of the President-in-Office of the Council, I shall try to use the presence of the Minister of Defence, paying close attention to the variations in geography that we have just heard. This debate seems to be being transformed into a Zibaldone which contains a whole series of problems that have nothing to do with the European Council (some of them are still beyond to come), according to a logic that is being consolidated over the years: Parliament adapts itself to the arguments and demands that some press reports interpreting certain public opinion. Therefore, we have now discovered the Etruria Bank, we must give to Minister Boschi and, even if Putin tomorrow releases an atomic bomb, if we do not solve the problem of the Etruria Bank to us, it is not that we care more than that. Minister, I am sorry that Mr Gentiloni is not here, because my speech was in line with some recommendations that do justice to all the panegyrics, such as the one that the President of the Council has given us, to which I would advise not to fall into the inveterate temptation to say: I have done what others have not done. The administration, the government of a municipality, of a region, of a nation have no solution of continuity. In fact, I would like to point out - absit iniuria verbis for the colleagues of Forza Italia - that it is true that the Berlusconi Government did not put the money for the banks and perhaps did not prevent the subprime crisis, but I must also say that Berlusconi was the first President of the Council who had the courage to challenge in Brussels the Maastricht parameters, to challenge Merkel, and was sent home by the storm, artificially organized by the German and French banks, called the storm of the spread. The twisted things remain crooked, so forget what has been done, do more what Berlusconi has done. In this particular case, Minister for Defence, we have a problem that Gentiloni, in the few interviews he gives on television, I think he did not perceive, and around which the whole Middle Eastern question is centered: whether to leave Bashar al-Assad in his place or to send him away. The moment we flatten ourselves, as a government, on the thesis of the United States of America, we forget the genesis and who determined that scenario, before war and then terrorist exversion. The Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the President of the Council should remember that among all the dictators we have tolerated over the years, not least the military who have made a coup in Egypt by laying down the Government democratically elected by the Egyptians, Bashar al-Assad was democratically elected in 2014; neither the armed groups against him nor the international community have contested this phenomenon. The Americans first armed al Qaeda, which in Arabic means database, i.e. list, an organization composed essentially of all officers and all Sunni who were or had been accused of collaborationism by the Government of the deposed dictator of Iraq. They armed them and instructed them; when, then, this movement, with 9/11 and Bin Laden, became subversive, they began to arm the hand of ISIS; then, except to discover, when the jihad was proclaimed in a vast and international way, to have to strike also ISIS. Mr Minister, do one very simple thing: do not align yourself with the Americans, try to find a common sense position from which a European proposal emerges. In fact, contrary to the turmoil in this House, I conclude with a phrase that has made the English people noble: right or wrong, my country; wrongly or rightly, I choose my country. We will vote on the government's motion and other similar motions, because at this time national identity and support for those who represent us must prevail. [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u108	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, we share the profound significance that the President-in-Office of the Council has attached to the European Council of tomorrow, the first after the dramatic attacks in Paris, on which President Renzi has reiterated an inescapable principle in this House: there is no guarantee of security without a great diplomatic investment by the European Union and all its Member States. I would also like to recall the words and thoughts of President Giorgio Napolitano, when he points out that there is a strategic correlation between the escalation of fundamentalist terrorism in Daesh and the winding up of a common European commitment, of the United States, and now also of Russia, whose role is appropriately supported by the Italian Government. There is no doubt that, despite all the differences within the Union, there are no credible alternatives to the need to start from a new and renewed political choice of the European Union. Faced with the challenge of terrorism and the migration crisis, we need to strengthen the common policy on the right of asylum and immigration, with regard to financial policies and the reform of economic governance, as well as on the indispensable banking union and, last but not least, on growth policies, which are the only condition for the constraints and objectives of budgetary policies to be acceptable. The answer to the crisis and terrorism is therefore more Europe and certainly not less Europe or new frontiers within the Union, in the face of the open problems, which call Europe to a test of responsibility, a unified vision, which is of extraordinary urgency, because the values and principles that preside over the political idea of the European Union are in question. The position expressed by the Italian Government in the face of terrorism and the choices to be made is what Europe needs. It is true, from this point of view, as Alain Touraine also said, that the strategy of jihadist terrorism is to determine violent situations of maximum asymmetry, in the sense that the acts they commit cannot be committed by us. Their capacity for devastation is intended to place Europe and Western democracies in a position where they cannot respond. It is for this reason that the call of the Italian Government, in the face of an attack that will commit us in the coming years, is to politics, international diplomacy and the necessary military choices. We fully agree with the strategy outlined and outlined by the President-in-Office of the Council, which Gerhard Schröder would have called the Politik der ruhigen Hand at the time, i.e. a meditated policy that avoids reactive choices, dictated only by pure emotion. Otherwise there is no possibility of countering apocalyptic and fanatical terrorism, which wants to lead Europe to madness and therefore beyond its own values. There is no room for unilateral military intervention to address increasingly complex and dangerous regional crises at international level. For these reasons, the Group for Autonomies - PSI - MAIE appreciates the communications of the President of the Council and confirms the consent to the action of the Government. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u111	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to make a few comments on a number of issues which we have heard this evening from the President of the Council, but which we have already had to discuss several times in this House in recent weeks. I shall confine myself to a few basic remarks, on some of the things I have heard, on some of the elements on which we make a positive assessment, but also on the many perplexities and doubts we have about the issues we are dealing with this evening and which we think should be addressed in a somewhat more organic and structural way, if I may say so. I have already said several times here that it is as if there is a discrasia in reasoning. On the one hand, there is the course of action, which the Italian Government has expressed in recent weeks and which I myself have repeatedly considered wise, prudent and in some way aware of the fact that, faced with such serious issues, such as war and terrorism, strategic reasoning must be put in place. There is no need for muscle tests, no more than bombings or more or less improvised war adventures, but there is a need for strategies, to enhance Europe's role and to put in place a reasoned political hypothesis. However - and I say this to the majority party and to the President-in-Office of the Council, even if there is no such thing - I am therefore addressing your Ministers, who of course represent him - it is as if there is no more serious analysis of the underlying reasons which have determined the type of situation with which we are dealing today: that rigorous budget that we have never wanted to make in recent years, that inability, which emerged also in this legislature, to put to the bottom of the great open issues, which have also gone through the political debate, not only of our country. Allow me the Ministers who are here, there is also some scepticism on our part. I hear today that Italy will try to play this role within the European Union to change certain elements of Europe's political line in relation to a number of issues. Well, I think I can say that, as this manoeuvre failed during the six months of the European Presidency, I have some doubts that it succeeds today. In any case, since I think it is right to put in place a kind of policy that can ultimately pose some problems, we do not want to avoid this challenge. We think it is absolutely right to ask ourselves today how to defeat terrorism, the Daesh. This is exactly what a piece of analysis is missing. All right, it is right, it is correct to say that the bombings are not necessary, and that they can make the situation worse; among other things - I say this to the Minister of Defence, of course without confusing either political or geographical matters about the Mosul dam - it would be useful to have a passage in the Commission, perhaps in the joint foreign commissions and defence of the House and Senate, to understand the substance of what we are talking about, what kind of intervention is required of our 450 soldiers, the rules of engagement; to understand exactly what this is about. As these are very serious issues, I think they deserve very rigorous consideration from this Parliament. I was saying, the subject that we think is missing from this debate is that there is no more reasoned analysis of what are the most effective measures that can be put in place today, not only by our country but by the European Union in general, to defeat the terrorist threat. I think I can say - and I am sorry that the President-in-Office of the Council has left - that, although it is prudent to agree with some basic approaches, this element within his reasoning is completely lacking. For example - we have clearly written this in our resolution, and that is why we will obviously vote on that and not the others - a serious reasoning on what has happened over the years; on the fact that the Western countries, including ours, instead of fighting terrorism, have fueled it, selling weapons to it, trading in oil and not putting in place those political and diplomatic initiatives that would instead have served to produce all the acts (for example those on the moratorium on arms), which would have been decisive in an affair like this. In the same way, there is a complete lack of mention - I have already said this in this House and I say this today - of a story about which silence is becoming increasingly unbearable: it is not possible not to name the Kurdish issue; it is not possible, Minister, for a debate to take place, such as what we are doing today, about Europe, about Daesh, about terrorism, about what has happened in the Middle East for two and a half years (in fact, for many years now) and we do not talk about a decisive point - neither has the President-in-Office of the Council this evening - such as the Kurdish question and Turkey's gigantic responsibilities in relation to what is entering that part of the world. I do not understand what should happen more: is it not enough for us to bomb the PKK posts rather than those of the Daesh? Is it not enough for a minority political force - the Kurdish one - to be prevented from campaigning because they even attack them in their demonstrations? Isn't it enough for their lawyer to be killed? Nor is this enough for us to say that today one of the ways to resolve the Middle East crisis and to put in place an effective counter-terrorism initiative is to finally resolve the Kurdish issue. In the same way, I think - and I say this once again to the Minister - that a more incisive political and diplomatic action can no longer be postponed than the Sunni monarchies. I have said several times in this House that it is very important (and very welcome from my point of view) to put in place an action that speaks to the Shiite world, to Iran, to Hezbollah, which also tries to remove an element that is likely to be misplaced in our debate over the past few years, namely that absolute evil was simply in the Shiite world. On the contrary, it is useful to put in place diplomatic action with that world, but it is equally useful to rebuild a relationship and an involvement with those Sunni monarchies too often accomplices of the Daesh. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u114	CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, the importance of voting for the three missing members of the Constitutional Court and the scope of this debate, which has been very interesting and important, as well as the President-in-Office's reply, make me appeal to the gift of synthesis that is sometimes lacking in this House. I would therefore like to make just two comments and to announce my vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Mr Zanda and signed by Mr Schifani. Firstly, I would like to say that we are now at a point where all European issues (such as security, defence, foreign policy, energy and migration) are united in an inseparable whole. For example, the news we have about a major issue of foreign policy, namely the sanctions against Russia, coupled with the doubling of the initiatives of the Nordstream pipeline involving Russia and Germany, requires all of us to assume consistent and responsible behaviour. I believe that in a place of qualified people like this I should not add anything else: intelligent pauca. It is not possible for some countries to assume the weight of sanctions against Russia without bearing in mind that other economic initiatives are proceeding and have an effect on the economy that is exactly antithetical for other countries. I would also like to say that the events of these days show us that partnership with Russia is essential to meet the challenge of terrorism. Very rightly, Mr De Cristofaro, Vice-President of the Foreign Affairs Committee, has now said that it is also time to discuss Sunnis and Shiites. Yesterday there was the announcement of this great alliance of the Sunni front led by Saudi Arabia; the Shiites are moving, Russia has entered the field and Italy has played its part for Libya. There have been two important facts (Minister Pinotti was among the protagonists along with myself and others); we had an important summit of political reflections on the Mediterranean and this marks a turning point also in the national awareness that this sea will either be destined to give us positive prospects or will be a sea from which problems will arise difficult to address for Italy. The leading and leading role of European politics in the Mediterranean is the key to this legislature, beyond governments, the majority and the opposition: either we are the ambassadors of a strong Mediterranean policy in Europe or we will inevitably be destined to be subordinates in an increasingly difficult world to live on. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I support motion for a resolution No 2. I also welcome the Government's commitment and the hope that Parliament will support the Commission in its efforts to achieve a genuine Mediterranean policy. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u117	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, we believe that these communications on the European Council should be labelled as communications of incoherence, short memory or general confusion. And I'll explain why. President Renzi has come here to tell us about his three points, which are security, diplomacy and military action. In these words we see a great inconsistency. Why? First of all, we are about to return to a bill of stability which was born in this House without any intervention in terms of security. So don't come and tell us plans and strategies that you don't have, because the only interventions that you were forced to predict in that context you did unfortunately after the facts of Paris; if these facts hadn't been there, those interventions wouldn't have seen the light. So you were forced to do those interventions, you were forced by an attack that saw over 100 deaths; there is no political strategy behind this action. This European Council is all economic, even if we are talking about terrorism and war. It is an entirely economic Council and this is also in your words and in your attitudes. Senator Fattorini said we need investment and research in Africa. We contest these statements, because it is precisely these attitudes that determine the facts we are discussing. We wonder what new evangelization you are talking about, Senator Fattorini. This reminds me of a scene in a film about capitalism by Michael Moore, in which a new Jesus of Nazareth saves and resurrects Lazarus, but says: Go and maximize your profits. Here, this is probably the evangelization that you are looking for. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] President Renzi spoke of a penny in security and a penny in culture. Well, here's the paradox. It would be worth mentioning the paradox of chickens, but I want to remind you of the paradox of the oven and the fridge. What you are asking us, Prime Minister, is to put a hand in the oven and a foot in the refrigerator; on average we are absolutely fine, but we have a completely burned hand and a frozen foot. We want to know what is in the middle, so the things we do to solve the practical and concrete problems. Last question. This European Council will also focus on economic aspects and issues, which you have not mentioned at all. A position on all is not yet clear; I am referring to the position of the Italian Government in relation to a fundamental point, namely China's entry into the WTO and the reaction and repercussions that this entry may have on what we called the notorious TTIP agreement. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is not clear what the government's position is, because you have not yet declared it (we know that there are conflicts within the majority). We call for the Government's position on this issue to be finally expressed. As far as the explanation of vote is concerned, we will of course vote in favour of our motion for a resolution and the motion tabled by the Misso-SEL Group, while we will vote against all the other motions for resolutions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u120	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I listened carefully to the President-in-Office of the Council. On other occasions I had listened as carefully to Prime Minister Cameron's speech in the House of Commons and to Chancellor Merkel's speech in the Bundestag. I have to say that in those speeches I have received attention and precision from the theatres we are talking about on this occasion much more than those present in the speech made by the President of the Council, both in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate. This obliges me in some ways to deepen it, even if only in the presence of some Ministers of the Government. In any case, the Minister of Defence is present and that is enough for me. As far as theatres are concerned, Italy's problem is to develop a strategy, which obviously depends on the many asymmetries present in the theatres. In Syria we have recently witnessed the establishment of an alliance of all oppositions to Bashar al Assad. We also saw that, fortunately, at the last moment the participation of the Syrian rib of al Qaeda, Nusra, who did not attend the meeting, but was invited at an early stage, was excluded. We are witnessing concrete evidence, offered by Russian intelligence, in which it is seen that Turkey trades clandestinely or allows the clandestine trade of Daesh's tanker trucks, which take oil from occupied wells and transport it underground to Turkey through a definitely very open border. So the tank trucks come in and the foreign fighters come in and out. I remember that Turkey is a member of NATO. In the Iraqi scenario Turkey occupies the city of Bashika, 20 kilometers from Mosul, and allows peshmergades to advance and open a second front in Iraqi Kurdistan. At the same time, however, it bombs Syrian Kurds (YPG), Syrian women who fought and won in Kobane. We have recently witnessed the establishment of a holy alliance of Sunni obedience: 32 or 36 countries of Sunni obedience (now I don't remember the exact number) have made a great alliance against the Shiite community, minority in the Muslim world but still representative of three countries. I am referring to the Shia Alawite minority in Syria, the Shia majority in Iraq (the Prime Minister is a Shia) and Iran, which, as a matter of fact, recently, with the agreement of "5 + 1" (which we have not participated in, but we have already talked about this) has been readmitted to the consortium of nations with which we can have a relationship. It is therefore difficult to imagine today a multilateral initiative in which Italy can be included. In some ways, the President-in-Office may also be right to ask himself what matters if there are four more or less Tornadoes, because there are probably many more planes and many fewer targets to hit. But today I have not heard in the words of the President-in-Office of the Council the definition of a strategy. We have not yet understood what the Italian strategy is: do we participate or do we not participate? Senator Alicata first reminded me of something, and I'd like to do a little inscription. President Berlusconi tried in every way to convince Bush not to invade Iraq in 2003 and, in the same way, tried in every way to convince France, Great Britain and the United States not to bomb Libya. It was therefore two initiatives that - yes - took place in the presence of the Berlusconi Government, but in reports to which the President of the Italian Council tried to convince those who wanted to attack not to do what they then did, with all the collateral damage that followed. There is one point that has not convinced me at all of the intervention of the President of the Council, both this morning in the House and in the reply here in the Senate: I am referring to the problem of the terrorist threat. Abdelhamid Abaaoud is twenty-seven years old who seems to be the third terrorist who exploded (perhaps, as there is still no certainty) is a Belgian citizen of Moroccan origin and seems to be the mind of the command of assault in Paris. He grew up in Molenbeek, outskirts of Brussels, but attended the best European schools: he was sent to the Collège Saint-Pierre d'Uccle, which is twenty minutes from his home. Abaaoud is the son of a 1975 immigrant who has been a miner and has allowed his children to attend the best Western schools. But these young Europeans, children of first or second generation immigrants, who have attended the best European schools - it is not a cultural problem, therefore - are the killers who hit on the mandate of those who reside in Raqqa. The symmetrical war that we seek and imagine to make has a reference of terrorist cells in Western countries made of people lived and raised not only in the banlieues but in European neighborhoods where these boys, with the efforts of their fathers and, at times, their brothers, have grown and have been able to attend the best European schools. However, the senders are comfortably seated in Raqqa. Then, our problem in the development of the strategy is: to strike in terms of security those who reside in our Western countries, but also and above all those who are the leaders in the countries occupied by Daesh. At the end of the day, it reproduces the scheme of the twin towers. You will remember that, in the 19 of the commando, 15 were Saudis, but Osama bin Laden was in Afghanistan and the Americans struck Afghanistan to destroy the local cell of al Qaeda, which was the boss of those who had not grown up in Western civilizations and cities, but were directly Saudi or centered on the extremist Muslim culture that unfortunately did damage in the Muslim Islamic world. Then there's the other intelligence problem. Hollande has not only called for the cooperation of Western countries, including our own, in military terms. He asked for the participation of our intelligence, but this has realized that Salah has passed from our country and intelligence not from Italy, but the Americans understood, knew and travelled the Italian territory where he was present? Have we shared with the French, the British, the Americans and our intelligence this ability to gather information or not? (18.36) (Romans Paul followed). Mr President, our problem is to imagine what Italian policy can be in Europe. I do not think that the slogan can be enough: a euro for culture and a euro for security. We must imagine for a great country like ours, with the dramaticly difficult scenarios that present themselves before our eyes, what our role can finally be. Minister Pinotti, we have the military potential to strike and you know very well what I mean. Our bodies were ready to intervene in Libya to destroy the boats before they were filled, but a political order prevented them from doing so. I would like to know and understand if we have a political-diplomatic-military strategy that allows our country to be able to represent that strength, that tradition and those abilities that we think it must have. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u123	LATORRE (PD). Since in twenty-five minutes I hope that this Parliament will put an end to this no longer tolerable debate with which we are postponing the election of members of the Constitutional Court, I shall give up my speech. I will deliver the written text to the Senate Presidency. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I would like to confirm not only the appreciation of the remarks made by the President-in-Office of the Council and the issues contained in the motion, but above all to stress that, even in the light of the things last heard by Senator Romani, there is confirmation of how much the complexity of the situation in that area imposes the wisdom of a position that holds together a certain political strategy like the other side of a military strategy. Never at this time of defence and foreign policy are two sides of the same coin. In this sense, the role that our country is playing is not a role of those who want to give up their responsibilities. For the record, and I should like to conclude, I would like to say to my colleague, Mr Giarrusso, that he may not be informed, that, as far as the security of the Mosul dam is concerned, this is one of the strategic places in Iraq. The conflict between the Iraqi and Daesh official troops began around the theme of the Mosul Dam, because that is a strategic place in the battle and also in the war that is developing. So, to secure that dam, we'll see what the demands are and whether we'll have to take such an initiative. The theme, however, is not who goes to fix it, but who protects a security activity. And this is a strategic theme, even in the battle against the Daesh. However, we will discuss this on another occasion. I think, however, that it is worth stressing the value to be given to the spirit to which the President-in-Office of the Council referred, which is the spirit which, immediately after the Paris massacre, called for a united appeal to all political forces. Today, the closer we get to the election campaigns, the more clownish tones prevail, as we have seen. We will continue to move in the same united spirit as we also agree with the majority motion for a resolution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u124	The Presidency authorizes you to attach the text of your speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Zanda, Schifani and Zeller. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3 Crosio (LN-Aut). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 4. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator De Petris and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 4 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 5. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 5 tabled by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 6. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 6, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 7. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 7, tabled by Senator Romani Paolo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). This concludes the discussion on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 17 and 18 December 2015.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u125	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-554.ana.u126	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday, December 17, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.44.
