ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 9 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.32).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1854, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report, two questions were rejected for a preliminary ruling and the general debate began. Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so. [[Brusio.]] Before Senator Stefani takes the floor, I would like to invite colleagues who are not interested in this issue to come out of the Chamber and, in any case, to lower the tone of their voices, since the buzz there is at the moment is incompatible with any activity of this House. The invitation is addressed to both my right and my left, although I must say that especially from the right comes a noise that prevents listening. Please, Senator Stefani, try talking.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a measure which, in some ways, is disturbing, because those who have lived in the 1970s and 1980s know well what is being talked about when reference is made to terrorism: we remember all the years of lead. Even today we are talking about terrorism, as a particularly dramatic and insidious hypothesis, to the point of seeing all of us threatened by certain components, which unfortunately arise in some parts of the world and which come to attack the safety of all of us and our ordinamental system. Talking about terrorism in Italy still reminds us of the stragism of the past, but unfortunately today - as is also reported in the news - we continue to talk about what it means to have people who, probably lying and lying, come to work within our borders. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u6	Excuse me, Senator Stefani.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u7	Colleagues, I renew my prayer to you, because it is really impossible for the speaker to counter this buzz with his voice. Senator Di Giorgi, I kindly invite you to step away. STEFANI (LN-Aut). Thank you, Mr President, and I hope that you will take these interruptions into account. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency will take this into account. Please, Senator, continue your speech. STEFANI (LN-Aut). For the truth, we are more critical of what is not but what is in this provision. We are talking about anti-terrorism, but without addressing some fundamental issues. We cannot talk about anti-terrorism without talking about an increase in the forces of order, a real protection and control of the territory. For this reason, as a Group of the North Legacy, we have also proposed a number of amendments which, according to the rumors that are unfortunately already circulating, will probably not be discussed or voted on. For us, it is essential, when it comes to terrorism, to address the issue of an increase in the forces of order. To this end, we have included proposals aimed at increasing the staff of the police forces, unlocking the turnover and trying specifically to prepare officials and all law enforcement agents in order to be able to deal with this type of phenomenon which, as was said before, is particularly insidious. We need men and means, because the control of the territory cannot be separated from an organization of men and means. We are not talking about martial laws, about emerging situations, but about a daily reality that affects countries like Italy - which are thought to be civilized - called to face the phenomenon of terrorism. But we are not just talking about men, but also about means, because technologies at the service of the Forces of Order at this moment can also be considered insufficient. In this measure, we may end up talking, a little in the Italian way as often happens, about false problems such as the weapons held by hunters. That's not the problem. The problem is upstream. This measure may include some commercials, some elements on which to build appropriate legislation in the future, but it is not enough; it may be a first piece, but the problem of terrorism cannot be considered exhausted. This problem must be tackled systematically. For the umpteenth time, however, we see many of the issues in question, including the scrutiny of the Justice Commission, of which I am a member, dealt with in a fragmented way and transmitted instead to the outside, from the media point of view, as something positive, almost to say "Look what we have done!." But what do you think you have done with this provision? There may be some good ideas to begin with, but it is not decisive in the absolute way. For us, it is essential, and to this end we have put forward amending proposals, to control our territories, including through specific measures. We have presented to this end a draft law on mosques, signed by the entire Group of the North League, in which proposals are made aimed at controlling and monitoring certain realities. We are not saying that we want to ban cults, to eliminate them, but we are simply asking ourselves to do so, as written in our draft law, that the statutes of these cultural and religious associations should include rules for respect for the principles of democracy that also ensure internal democracy and respect for the individual. That doesn't sound racist or xenophobic to me. What is being asked is simply a monitoring of the Italian reality. Moreover, when it is said that in three days 5,600 migrants have arrived, how can it be argued that we are controlling the territory if we have a huge flow of people that eventually turns out to be almost uncontrolled? How can we think that the system of the Forces of Order can be able to verify the activity of each individual person? I'm sure you realize that this is practically impossible. Therefore, the vision that we must take as a Group, as a Parliament, as a Government is to guarantee the security of our territory. We have huge crime problems, problems of intensification of predatory crimes, problems of security in individual countries, and in the midst of all this there is the problem of terrorism. And terrorism isn't the theft of a watch in an apartment, it's not the theft of a car, it's a total risk to our community. That is why it must be dealt with in an extremely responsible way, with great awareness. This provision also talks about missions abroad, and in this regard we have raised concerns about the fact that in a decree-law can be reconsidered both these issues, very particular and in some ways difficult to deal with jointly. In questioning ourselves about all these resources that are used and spending on interventions, among other things, perhaps, even very just abroad, we must think that the true gothic line for us becomes our borders: our territory, the territory of Italy, our Regions, of all the Municipalities. It is for this reason that we have put forward a series of proposals, including amendments, to say: think, think about these issues. We do not consider issues such as immigration rather than mosques or security as belonging only to a party ideology. They must be at the heart of the work of a government and a parliament, because we cannot think of relations between civilizations even before we have solved the problem of internal security. Primum vive, deinde philosophari, someone had also said: first we find a security for our territories, then we can also do other reasonings. In this provision there are also passages that see us in some ways favorable, but with respect to the entire installation of this bill of conversion of the decree-law we believe that the shortcomings are too serious. For the umpteenth time this Government and its majority have shown that they do not deal with the issues in a systematic way, losing so great opportunities to have implications and achieve effects. You have to be brave. In the face of emerging situations there is no need to make political or easy ideologies. We really must have the courage to defend our people and our civilization. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u8	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u9	Madam President, the rules introduced by this anti-terrorist decree-law certainly provide additional tools for countering the fundamentalist threat and meet many requirements of both repressive and preventive nature, even if the criticalities are not lacking. In emergency situations, such as that which Italy and Europe are experiencing, it is never easy to find a balance between security needs and the protection not only of privacy, but also of the fundamental freedoms of the rule of law. In times far away, but of which many of us still have a dramatic memory - I am referring to the years of lead - the State managed to win its battle without resorting to systematic emerging regulations. Today the threat is even more insidious because we have before us a terrorist organization that has become a state and that, because of the grave errors of the West, is expanding its zone of influence not only to Libya, but to the whole Maghreb, that is a few hundred kilometers from our coasts, lucrating on the traffic of the illegals and making proselytes also in our country with the phenomenon of foreign fighters. But we come to examine in detail the decree-law that introduces new crime figures, including the self-training of the terrorist and travels with terrorist purposes, and aggravates those existing if committed on the net. In fact, today the web is the most widespread way to recruit and ISIS is proving to be a skilled social network manager; so that's where it's right to focus more attention. There is, however, a real risk of serious unconstitutionalities. In drawing up the criminal law of the Internet, in fact, the Government neglected the principles of the taxableness and materiality of the conduct of crime. The decree-law does not, in fact, type in a sufficiently precise manner the behavior forbidden to the future guilty, nor determines the concrete danger of the conduct, while the Constitution prohibits to punish the criminal intention without its concrete materiality. The decree-law then proposes black lists for sites in the smell of terrorism to remove its illegal content. In this context, the measures are weak because they do not destroy the illegal content everywhere spread on the web, but only that of the site, nor do they hit the solitary terrorists sufficiently strongly. The guarantor Soro, then, has already intervened to say that this decree-law expressly derogates from the privacy code in order to facilitate the collection of data by the Forces of the order to ascertain the crimes, obliging Internet operators to keep the data of conversations and navigations for twenty-four months in order to investigate a wide spectrum of crimes against anyone and regardless of the suspicion of a crime. On some of this issue, a moment of reflection has opportunely taken place. However, the lengthening of storage times for data relating to electronic traffic and unanswered calls can only facilitate the reconstruction of the network of knowledge and contacts of suspects of terrorism, and it is therefore difficult to renounce it. The other point on which it would be necessary to reflect is that concerning the attribution to the Anti-Mafia Prosecutor's Office also of the role of Anti-Terrorism Prosecutor's Office. Mafia and terrorism are two phenomena of great criminal importance, but they have nothing to do with each other and therefore require different specializations. Putting them together, perhaps adding specific skills on corruption, means ending up in demagogy. And it is good to remember that the anti-mafia prosecutor Roberti himself said that substantial changes should be made to the decree-law, especially where the powers of coordination over centralized police services are not provided for in the DNA leadership. The MSC itself did not hide its doubts, stating that neither the coordinating powers attributed to Roberti's office nor the regulation of the relations between the Super prosecutor and the secret services function in the Government's decree. Delicate matters, which will determine the actual future of a structure that the magistrates engaged in the investigation of terrorism have been demanding for years, but which at this point could be born crippled. It would be a missed opportunity that our country cannot afford, especially in the face of the serious international alarm constituted by Islamic terrorism. The main problems raised are three: the first, as I have already mentioned, concerns the effective coordination that the future Super-Prosecution Anti-Terrorism will have in the relationship with the central police. In fact, it will not be able to make direct use of it. But it's not enough. To aggravate the situation there is the chapter of the future relations between the Super prosecutor and the services. Here, in fact, Roberti's office is cut off from a direct and effective intercourse, because the decree-law entrusted the attorney general of Rome with the power to authorize both future investigative talks in prison and the green light to the preventive interceptions. Two "powers" that the Attorney Roberti claims for himself, to prevent the Super prosecutor from remaining a more representative office than operational. Indeed, with the introduction of the national prosecutor anti-mafia and anti-terrorism we have an apparent paradox: there is the National Directorate anti-mafia and anti-terrorism, but there are no District Directions anti-mafia and anti-terrorism. A functional problem that cannot remain unresolved. A measure that is certainly right is the strengthening of intelligence by promoting undercover operations and broadening the functional guarantees for infiltrators. Law No. 124 of 2007 prohibits our 007 from having relations with journalists and members of the clergy. An unreasonable ban that prevents security equipment from recruiting an Al Jazeera journalist or the imam of an official mosque as a source of information. Now, at least, there is one small step forward: the one that allows service agents to conduct investigative interviews in prison, subject to authorization. The decree-law also contains the extension of the "secure road operation," a measure that goes in the right direction, but which requires, as an immediate consequence, the unblocking of the police force turnover, given the current shortage of staff, because the terrorist threat is destined to last over time and it would be very difficult to guarantee otherwise the supervision of the fixed objectives. According to the police unions, we are very far from improving the actual levels of security. It is easy at this point to ask why the Government does not allocate at least a part of the alleged treasure found between the lines of the Document of economy and finance to the strengthening of the Forces of the order, that guarantee in very difficult conditions the safety of all under conditions that define precarious is a euphemism. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u10	Today there is in the Chamber a representation of students of the Professional Institute of State "Giuseppe Medici" in Legnano, in the province of Verona, to whom we address our greetings. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going straight to the point. This text sucks! It totally sucks. It's misspelled. It's incomprehensible and disgusting on the subject, as well as on the method. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]] For years, sloppy and incompetent politicians and governments have been extending missions without a general strategic framework, without a framework law. It's true. You just announced that we're debating it in the House. But I think it's gonna be an announcement according to the classic "announces" of all the rest of it. So until we see the facts, there's no point in talking about it. In fact, we have been carrying out missions for years without a strategic vision - this is, frankly, rather bland, since we are talking about war - and without involving Parliament. Military spending is the only one that has grown in recent years; years of deep crisis; and they have solved nothing, it seems to me, but they have complicated the international framework. While you spend exorbitant figures without criteria, quote the treasures. And you suck at that, too, because we're in the election campaign and you want to sell it to the citizens, like the 80 euros. Well, that too is unworthy, unworthy of you, because we are talking instead of a question that seems very important, that of terrorism, in fact. Well, let's talk terrorism. What does terrorism do? You know that and it's pretty banal as a thing. In the title, you say that this decree-law concerns urgent measures for the fight against terrorism also of international origin. This "also" is very interesting and I'll explain why. Terrorism spreads terror, panic, instability; terrorism destabilizes and therefore strikes by surprise, without warning and without any prediction, sensitive objectives, public places, infrastructure. It sows panic and fear in the daily lives of citizens who feel exposed to deadly dangers. These days we've heard about the roof of a school that fell on the students. In Piedmont, in the Province of Turin, a student died, in high school "Darwin" precisely because of a collapse. Bridges and roads have collapsed, new ones, just made, just delivered. As for the courts, they killed a judge in a courtroom, so, without warning, wandering among other things without any control within the courthouse. Today, among other things, there were five wounded at the court in Naples, for the taffles due to a safety management apparently inappropriate, done so, rushing, to put a swab. It is clear that, as many colleagues say, if we do not have... Mr Manconi (PD). They killed three people, not a judge! AIROLA (M5S). You're right, Manconi, they killed three people; I was wrong. There has been no capacity for management, because if we now want, with Minister Alfano, to manage security in the courts or other strategic places as you are doing, it seems to me that you will stop justice more than guaranteeing the security of citizens. So it seems to me sincerely that, rather than from an international terrorism, our country must beware of the terror that provokes this Government, the previous governments, this majority and the decree-laws that we vote with confidence, as will probably happen today, which are much more serious and much more dangerous than international terrorism. Minister Alfano, while trying to infiltrate in this decree-inconstitutional law invasions of the privacy of citizens through viruses or cyber trojans, threw himself the day before against the interceptions to politicians. It just so happens. Then I'm gonna shut it down, because there's not much to say. If we really want to fight terrorism, then the next decree-law that we do, we do it by establishing, in Article 1, that the President of the Council Renzi goes home and, in Article 2, that the Minister of the Interior Alfano goes home. And so below: let's put Gentiloni, the Pinotti, Orlando and Padoan. Citizens are terrified that you have cut 13 billion to the common authorities and there are no more services. In my city, I live in a neighborhood where we have to live with a 30-40 percent immigration and we have to do it ourselves, abandoned, with a very high level of microcriminality; the first ones to protest are the regular immigrants who are working. This is abandoning a country, making the country literally fall in the head of the citizens. And then we spend over a billion on incongruent missions without a strategic vision. This country has to look at you. You want to save us? Get out of here. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u14	Madam President, we are in the presence of a measure that calls into question a country and a community, in a moment of emergency and of great criticality, in which the security of all of us is threatened by a terrorist presence that moves in unusual ways. The collective consciousness and that of each of us is called to face a phenomenon of international terrorism that does not only move in an absolutely marginal way and in usual ways, but is putting in place new ways; I am referring above all to a great use of the media, from the Internet to television, the images, the video shots that we have all been able to see; I am also referring to the ways of recruitment and training within our communities. For example, in European countries there is the phenomenon of so-called foreign fighters, of those young people, often young people from families immigrants from countries and communities of Islamic culture, who today hear the call of those organizations and those theories. At the same time, we are faced with the usual dilemma that involves a community when it decides that it is time to put in place emergency security measures, that is the awareness that in a democratic country, in a country of advanced law, excessive recourse to security measures cannot fail to find its counter-attack in a reduction of the rights of citizenship and the rights of freedom. It is with regard to this balance that we are obliged, in this case too, to confront ourselves. I believe that the measure identified by this measure can be acceptable with respect to this balance, albeit with some critical elements, of which I will say, on which I believe that the attention of each of us must remain very high. At a time when emerging measures are being put in place, we must have two concerns: the first is that these measures do not go too far in limiting the rights of individual citizenship and freedom in relation to the objectives that have been set for us; the second is that those temporary measures that we have defined remain actually such; in other words, that the adage for which nothing is more stable than that for which it is temporary, so that certain changes in the rights and guarantees of persons (e.g. the guarantee of the privacy of citizens and citizens) do not actually become a common practice, and instead remain in the abyss of exceptionality and emergency. Having said that, there is no doubt that today we need to equip our institutions with effective instruments. Someone wanted to compare the threat of the Daesh, what is improperly called the Islamic State, to the terrible threat to the international order constituted, in the last century, by the Nazi danger. It is clear that we are faced with a phenomenon quite different from that, but it is equally clear that we can find unequivocal signs of a relationship with that phenomenon in the way in which today this terrorist group, which defines itself as a state, deals with the relationship between political power and freedom and the way in which it treats the rights of the weakest. Just think about what is happening with regard to the many children in the occupied territories controlled by Daesh or their allies - I think for example Boko Haram - who today are in a state of deprivation of their right to childhood, but who often is deprivation of freedom and often deprivation of physical integrity and their own life. Just think, for example, of what is happening to women, of the mass rapes we have come to know; I think of what is happening, for example, to homosexual people, mercilessly exterminated in the areas controlled by the Daesh; I think of the inhuman threat, the cold, cynical and ruthless arguments that the leaders and militants of this organization put in the field to accompany their actions. We are very close to this danger. The fact that Rome has been evoked more than once as a possible objective of terrorist action should not be regarded as mere provocation: we are in a context in which a real danger is possible. There is an argument that certainly has its foundation: an organization of this kind, as I had already been anticipated by Al Qaeda, intervenes not only with planned measures, planned and controlled by the center, that is by a monster organization that manages to intervene on the whole Planet, but also with terrorist actions put in the field by very limited groups of people, often by individuals or groups composed of few units maybe without an operational link, if not through contacts via the Internet. The objection is that, in the face of an epochal transformation of such a terrorist danger, the measures we are talking about today are not effective. This may be the case. Indeed, this fragmentation of the terrorist danger is certainly an obstacle to the planning of prevention, repression and combating actions. On the one hand, it is inevitable that we put all the measures at our disposal in the field; on the other hand, there is no doubt that some of the forecasts contained in this decree-law take into account this specificity. I am referring, for example, to the introduction of those new criminal cases that speak of training or enlistment through the Internet of these people, or even punish the self-training through the Internet that is that singularity and that specificity of people who, perhaps from the outskirts of Paris, London or another European country, build their own presence or participation in this organization, plan an attack and find on the Net the tools to realize them. In this regard, I would like to highlight one of the critical elements on which I believe that the attention of the Government, ours and those who will have to monitor the implementation of these forecasts, will have to be high. I am referring to the passage in which the loss of parental authority is introduced as an accessory penalty when a minor is involved in this activity. Well, the formula "when a minor is involved" is quite generic and highly discretionary; for this reason it will have to be controlled. I will now examine directly some critical points on which action will have to be taken. The inclusion of the aiding of illegal immigration as an obstacle to alternative measures and prison benefits must not make us forget that the audience of those who are excluded from these benefits must always be closely monitored, monitored and not excessively extensive, because here too we are talking about a suspension of guarantee rights provided for by our law. I close by recalling the theme, on which moreover the Data Protection Officer has built a series of arguments not always transposed by this decree-law, relating to the right to the protection of personal data. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish. THE COURT (PD). We are talking about exceptional measures such as the retention of up to twenty-four months of electronic traffic data and unanswered calls, on which, for example, I hope there will be strong attention so that the date of 31 December 2016 is effectively respected and after that date a normal situation can be reconstituted. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u15	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u16	Senator Vaccari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u17	President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Senators Vattuone, Ginetti and Maran, for the work they have done in the Commissions meeting on the Decree-Law today when we examine it. This is an important measure because it provides, at a time of national and international emergency, urgent and concrete measures for the fight against terrorism, also of international origin and extends some international missions of the Armed Forces and police, selecting the priorities and rationalising the expenditure. It is precisely on the subject of the extension of international missions, Madam President, that I would like to concentrate my speech, since other colleagues from my party will focus on other aspects. Among the missions included in the decree-law as necessary to rationalise the sector is the Minurso (United Nations Mission for the Organization of a referendum in Western Sahara), the mission that since 1991 is to oversee the implementation of the referendum for the self-determination of the Saharawi people and the maintenance in the ceasefire area. It is precisely on this point that I have presented an agenda, together with many colleagues from the Parliamentary Intergroup of Friendship with the Saharawi people, who in the original version committed the Government to giving continuity, already in the coming months, with every possible concern, to the Italian participation in the Mission Minurso and the initiatives to support the Saharawi people. In this Chamber, we have already discussed the Saharawi issue extensively in April 2014 when motion 1-00129 (text 3) was adopted, by a very large majority, asking for specific commitments from the Government at European and international level. It is useful to recall, however, that in 1991, after the ceasefire, with the mediation of the United Nations, a peace process was launched supported by numerous resolutions of the Security Council and the United Nations General Assembly, with the aim not yet achieved of holding a referendum for the self-determination of the Saharawi people. Exactly to monitor the ceasefire and oversee this peace process, on 29 April 1991 it was established by the UN Security Council, with Resolution 690, the Minurso, which immediately had 100 international observers. To quote more recent data, in 2014 it was composed of 503 people from 33 countries, of which 226 military and 262 civilians. Our country is among the very few to have given continuity to its presence among the blue helmets since the beginning of the mission, ensuring for the period 1999-2001 the presidency of the Commission identification, while from September 2005 to February 2007 an Italian was special representative of the UN Secretary General for Western Sahara and head of the Minurso. Not only that: Italy has always been distinguished by the significant presence of associations that a little 'in all regions have established relations of friendship and twinning with the Saharawi people in exile in Tindouf in the Algerian desert; thanks to the diplomatic activity carried out by the Polisario Front it has been the recipient of many projects of development cooperation, of many initiatives of solidarity and concrete and political support by associations and committees of civil society, of thousands of local authorities, Provinces and Regions. These projects are partly financed from public resources, most of them from private resources, but always in a clear, transparent and documented way, accessible to all those who want to verify the correspondence between objectives and results. Thanks to the role played by institutional tables in conjunction with the coordinations on international cooperation, by parliamentary initiatives such as the Intergroup of Friendship with the Saharawi people, to which many legislators adhere hundreds of Members and senators of all political forces, it has been possible to stimulate the Italian Parliament to take a position consistent with the various and numerous resolutions of the United Nations. Having the good fortune and the honour of presiding over the parliamentary Intergroup in this legislature, I want to say that, while understanding the reasons and the reasons that the rapporteurs have well clarified in support of this measure, interrupting or reducing the activity as a Country of support for the Minurso can be interpreted as a distance from Italy from the peace process launched in 1991, always supported and encouraged, removing it from the commitment to a just, fair and negotiated solution to the conflict in Western Sahara. I would also point out that in that area there are no real risks of resumption of the clash between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Polisario Front, due to the worsening socio-economic situation, to the growing of a situation of malaise and frustration that is increasing especially among the youth component of the refugee camps, which can become easy prey to ISIS phalanges already present in neighbouring Mali. Since its constitution, the Minurso has had a clear objective of peace and - I want to stress this strongly - its presence is fundamental in a territory (the Western Sahara) that sees the violation of human rights on the agenda. That is why I believe that the Government should act in international fora to extend its powers to respect for human rights and the security of the Saharawi citizens. This is also a long-standing request from the majority of the Member States of the Security Council, with the exception of France, which has always considered that Morocco, having made progress on this issue, is able to monitor this delicate problem on its own, but history tells us that this is not the case. Morocco, of course, has always opposed this, because it believes that the territory of Western Sahara falls under its sovereignty; however, this sovereignty has never been recognized by any UN or international body, nor by any state. The repression, arbitrary arrests, torture and summary trials in Western Sahara and Morocco are documented by countless reports from international organizations, such as Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, the Robert Kennedy Foundation and reports produced in the United Nations' activities. In the face of this violent repression these organizations and defenders Saharawi of human rights have always turned with confidence to Minurso, discovering - ahinoi - that the blue helmets had no mandate to protect the population, to ensure respect for human rights, the founding principle of the United Nations itself. It is for these reasons that the commitment made by the Government in Commissions gathered here in the Senate and in the Chamber in the House to assess the opportunity to restore the resources necessary to continue the mission and to continue the diplomatic activity in order to obtain a just and fair solution to the problem of Western Sahara must for us be appropriately integrated with the extension to the monitoring of human rights by Minurso and to report on the activities carried out on the seven commitments made in April last by the Italian Government in front of this House. I therefore call on the Presidents of the Foreign Commissions and Human Rights, together with the members of the Intergroup, who remain available, to fully exercise their role for this forgotten people as well. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u18	He is registered to speak Senator Rossi Luciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law we are debating today is part of an extraordinary and well-defined context of international law. The legal basis for the measure lies in UN Security Council Resolution No 2178 adopted in September last year, which deals with threats to peace and international security caused by acts of terrorism. The decree-law is therefore within a very precise framework, which is that of Italy's full participation in the international community's commitment against the serious terrorist threat and responds to a very clear and detailed request made by the United Nations. The rules are therefore governed by a unified legislative philosophy, represented by the protection of the security of our citizens through measures of a national and international nature. This objective is well highlighted by the report accompanying the measure, in that it states that the fight against terrorism must be achieved in a unified manner without dividing between internal and external security, as demonstrated by the phenomenon of so-called foreign fighters. The context that needs to be addressed makes it essential to develop a global response capacity through measures that move both internally and internationally. On the other hand, effective measures to combat terrorism, together with the confirmation of international missions, to which they contribute military and civil, are the prerequisite for our country to assume the much-desired centrality in international relations, in view of our projection of a country hinged between Europe, the Mediterranean and the Middle East and the prestige gained in many theaters of crisis. After this premise, within the live of the decree-law, which is basically based on two pillars: the first is linked to direct repression, increasing the penalties for crimes with the purpose of terrorism, and the prevention of any crimes that may be committed; the second is linked to the renewal of international missions. I believe it is right and proper to send a message of gratitude and closeness to all Italians and Italians engaged in peace missions in the international context: among those who preceded me, there were those who criticized this activity, reserving negative attention to it, while it goes to bring to the world a beautiful image of our Italy, our history and our civilization. In relation to international missions, I would like to point out that over the years the participation of the Italian Armed Forces has taken on considerable importance. To the traditional engagements of a purely military nature, in synergy with the interventions of a civil nature, our armed and security forces have indeed taken on a series of initiatives aimed at the reconstruction of the local, political and social fabric. In the mandates of UN missions it is increasingly common to find tasks that include the protection of civilians, assistance in disarmament operations and support for the implementation of a democratic process. It has therefore gone from simple operations of humanitarian interference, through the sending of international observers, to peacekeeping missions, peace-keeping and conflict prevention (peace making) and peace-building missions, to peace-building missions. The Decree-Law therefore contains the expenditure authorisations necessary for the extension of the deadline for Italian participation in the various international missions, grouped on the basis of geographical criteria: Europe (Georgia, Balkans, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania, Kosovo, Cyprus and Mediterranean areas); Asia (Afghanistan, Qatar, United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Lebanon and also an extension of the employment of military personnel in training activities of Palestinian security forces); Africa (Libya, Mali, Horn of Africa and Central African Republic). The Decree-Law also provides for provisions on development cooperation initiatives and support for reconstruction processes and participation in international organisations' initiatives for the consolidation of peace and stabilisation processes. This is the part that most characterizes the Italian engagement in international missions, according to a model of cooperation universally recognized by the international community and known as the "Italian model." This model alludes to the fact that civil intervention, aimed at bringing relief, greater well-being and prospects of respect for the rule of law to local populations, also contributes to the fight against terrorism, insofar as it manages to erode at the base the consent that it builds on the territory. It is therefore essential to build a relationship of trust and collaboration with the people and to work positively especially for the reconstruction of a healthy economic and institutional fabric. As far as Iraq is concerned, as the explanatory report points out, it is intended to continue and strengthen the action in support of the response to the humanitarian crisis following the conflict triggered by Islamic terrorism and the exodus of displaced persons in certain regions of the country, especially in Iraqi Kurdistan. Action will continue to protect the Iraqi cultural heritage, an essential factor of identity of a multi-ethnic and multi-religious coexistence, both through Italian skills of excellence and with the collaboration of UNESCO. In this regard, Madam President, I would like to stress that I do not use the terms we adopt in the current language, such as IS, ISIS, ISIL, noting that they are genuine acts of terrorism, which cannot be referred to any recognized state. In fact, we are not faced with actions that are part of a state, but with a terrorist mode that cannot be identified either with a state or with a religion. The terrorism we are talking about is a systematic subversion of absolute values, religious traditions, cultural belongings, rights and freedoms. As I have already dealt with and deepened in the work of the Justice, Foreign and Defence Commissions, I repeat my sharing of the measure, although having given the anti-Mafia prosecutor powers to counter-terrorism leaves me some concern. It seems that the same perplexities are also shared by the Attorney General anti-Mafia Roberti, as someone mentioned earlier. I share Mr Esposito's statements, also in his role as Vice-President of the Copasir, on the need to strengthen, not only by means, but also with deserved attention, our intelligence services, which so well have been able to work so far. I would like to begin with the presentation of an agenda that we had shared with a number of colleagues (but I fear that the approach to the vote of confidence will negate a large part of the content): this was a corrective change to Article 3. However, I cannot avoid thanking my colleagues Caleo, Cantini, Broglia, Di Biagio, Bilardi, Ceroni, D'Ascola, Battista, Vaccari, Albertini, Gasparri, Divina, Bocca and Bernini, who shared this agenda with me. I would like to conclude with a clear thank you and a positive assessment of the work done by the three rapporteurs, Mr Ginetti, Mr Maran and Mr Vattuone, who have been able to illustrate both the Commission and the 21 articles in this House, making them stand out in their meaning but also in their value. It will, therefore, certainly be a positive sharing and for this I thank them. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and Senator D'Anna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u21	Madam President, I am speaking in this House perhaps a little distracted about the sensitive issue that we are dealing with in today's debate. Talking about terrorism, in fact, means talking about something you need to be intransigent about, because it is about the security of all of us; it means talking about issues that, within a globalized world, represent a problem that you have to confront, also because there is a threat that is not firm, but that constantly changes and takes different forms and a series of aspects and initiatives that may seem, sometimes, even simple to execute, but that is difficult perhaps to all of us hypothesize or just think. It is a matter of taking note that a real threat, such as the attacks that have only struck at the beginning of this year, Paris, Copenhagen, Tunisia or, last year, Brussels, must be tackled by following three principles: firmness, serenity and unity. In this decree-law there are some provisions that improve the overall regulatory framework, but there are also shortcomings and gaps that must be highlighted. If we recognise that there are positive aspects - I am referring in particular to Article 6 and Article 8 - it is also necessary to say that much more could and should be done. Much more could be done, for example, with regard to human and material means; a massive effort could be made, on the model of other European countries. I am thinking of France, which in one day recruited 2,680 people and put them in the Order and Service Forces, in the world of control, security and security of all citizens. It was therefore possible to guarantee more staff, perhaps already trained and with the characteristics to be employed. At the same time, we need more modern equipment that allows those who are competing with those who want to destroy us and who want to destroy the values of the Western world to be able to compete on equal terms. Unfortunately, we are dealing with subjects who know very well the use of what were once defined as new technologies, but which are now the technologies of everyday life, of our common life. Such subjects in this way, with ad hoc use, manage to condition even our daily life, instilling fear and terror. They must therefore be fought using these same media, which today are very widespread, perhaps more than traditional media. Today to get news in real time you no longer watch the news, you no longer resort to classic media, but you go on the web, on social media, using tools that allow you to be connected twenty-four hours in twenty-four hours and to have answers in real time, especially with regard to the most sensitive issues. Precisely the fact that these are sensitive issues allows terrorists and those who want to condition our daily lives to have easy play, because the news filters easier, is read and spread more easily. With the use of appropriate instruments, we can therefore fight this war, made also in the cyber world, forcing these subjects to defend themselves, so that they are obliged to commit their time, not only in an attack activity, as it is today, but also in the defense activity. We cannot fight a war against terrorists in the cyber world by playing only in defense: we must also be ready to prevent a possible attack, moving also us to action and preventing them from having the opportunity to spread a series of messages that then, as I said at the beginning, affect our daily lives. The problem with this decree-law is that, as I said, although it contains important rules, especially with regard to the innovation of the intelligence world, with the provision of tools that allow to guarantee greater security, it deals with issues certainly urgent, even if not always the most urgent issues are the most important ones. The government spends its time chasing the most urgent issues, often forgetting to deal with important ones and not always have time to deal with those important issues that may not turn out to be urgent, but that are contingent and that cannot be forgotten. The vulnus of this decree-law is precisely this and I close with one final consideration. I hope that this urgent decree, which is largely inadequate with regard to the answers to be given to citizens in the area of security, can also be integrated by listening to those who bring new ideas from the opposition, but who are heading in the same direction, namely to guarantee the security of citizens. [[Applause from Senator Stefani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Battista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u23	Madam President, I think it is important to point out to this House and to the representative of the Government - and I do not think I am the only one to do so - that this branch of Parliament is examining for the second time in a row the draft law on international missions after having received it from the House, and without the possibility of making its contribution, given the short time we have both had to discuss the text. I would hope that there may also be opposition groups this time in support of our country's international commitment and that this will give greater strength to the approval of this bill; of course, if the question of trust is raised, this could fail. However, I want to make my own the words of Deputy Minister Pistelli, who long ago highlighted the importance of a broad parliamentary consensus on international issues. To confirm this, I believe that any of us who have taken part in any mission abroad is relevant to what has just been said. This measure has included a fundamental part of measures to combat international terrorism, the threat of which is before everyone's eyes and which we have an obligation to combat effectively. In this regard, I would like to recall an analysis that I received today from a survey institute. The question asked by the interviewer was: "Are you worried about the way ISIS is going?" 33 per cent responds very much, 49 per cent say enough. So 82 percent of respondents expressed this concern. It is precisely on anti-terrorism measures that some changes have been introduced to the penal code, which would have deserved a greater deepening by the Senate, if only to allow for any improvements that I believe could have been made. In the Commission we discussed mainly the anti-terrorist part. I note that justice issues, as is often the case in the debates in this House when we are dealing with this subject, put forward specific considerations on which we need to examine carefully the amending provisions, especially the consequences of this in our system and their application. I trust this is the last time this branch of Parliament has to run without being able to affect it. But I want to take advantage of this opportunity to point out that only by making some changes to the Parliamentary Regulations of the House and Senate could we always be active actors on the decrees-laws of the Government. I have heard someone who proposed to examine the question mission by mission; I challenge anyone to examine with decree-laws or drafts of law, even of parliamentary initiative, all the missions in which our country took part as a fundamental actor. I then address an invitation to opposition. In the Commission, I remember, we had tabled 234 pages of amendments. They have all been retabled, although it is obvious that we find them after certain decisions. It is part of the game of the parties between majority and opposition: who once was majority and today is in opposition did the same thing, and vice versa. Having said that, it is worth pointing out that some provisions have been introduced on the retention of telephone and telematic traffic data, supplementing measures to prevent and combat terrorist activities. There is therefore a tightening of the penalties with a special aggravating of the crime of incitement against the internal and international personality of the State (including those with a purpose of terrorism). There is also special attention not to underestimate the very ground where the Daesh threat seeks to promote its propaganda: the Internet! In fact, in the case of specific crimes for purposes of terrorism carried out by electronic means, the public prosecutor orders, with a reasoned decree, the Internet service provider to provide for the removal of illegal content accessible to the public. Non-fulfilment by the provider results in a ban on access to the Internet domain by means of preventive seizure. That is why we cannot fail to recognise that these measures can only be acceptable. As well as the introduction of compulsory arrest in flagrant crime for the scafists; necessary measure for these criminals, human traffickers without any scrupulousness. In article 5, paragraph 3-b, the Arm of the Carabinieri is authorized to anticipate to 15 April 2015 the recruitment of 150 Carabinieri students to be drawn from the winners of the contest banned in the year 2010 for the recruitment of effective Carabinieri students in four-year standing, who have concluded the four-year stop as volunteers in the Armed Forces. This provision aims to ensure greater availability of personnel for the needs related to land control and the fight against terrorism, including international terrorism. As evidenced by the dossier of the Department studies, it is remembered that the provision is dictated in derogation from the provisions of article 1, paragraph 264, of the law of stability 2015 and in any case within the limits fixed by article 66, paragraph 9-a, of the decree-law n. 112 of 2008 in the matter of turnover. Appreciating therefore what has been done, I believe we must give an answer to all the requests, that I do not think I am the only one to receive, coming from suitable to the competitions of State Police and Finance Guard. I hope that there will also be this political will to make the appropriate legislative changes in order to be able to make further recruitment in the security sector without calling for new competitions. I think it is necessary to go further, as has been tried in the Commission with an agenda - as Senator Luciano Rossi has just said - and that personally has not taken away all my doubts, which concern the points of Article 3, paragraphs 3 - septies and later, which require the shippers to submit to the obligation to report detention. This is equivalent to comparing them or equivalent to the parts of the weapon, from which they were excluded by Legislative Decree No 204 of 26 October 2010 adopted to transpose Directive No 9177/EEC. In the same way, B7 weapons are also produced by other countries of the European Union, as well as shippers, and imposing restrictions on them could be seen as an obstacle to the free movement of goods and the market and cause the initiation of an infringement procedure against our country. The sale of B7 weapons is an important item in the Italian arms industry, which employs tens of thousands of people between manufacturers, distributors and retailers. I am not a hunter (no, I am not the opposite) and I am not a lover of sports shooting, but if this is really a necessary measure to combat terrorism, I think it is right to assess the possible consequences that these measures could have in this industrial sector. One remark that has been made with regard to this decree-law - I do not want to defend the Group of Forza Italia - concerns the involvement of the secret services. Well, it has been noted that no member of the Forza Italia Group sits within the Copasir. Then I think the best solution is to cheer for Senator Casson to become mayor of Venice in such a way that a place is freed. On the part concerning international missions, I will take little time, not so much because of less attention, rather because the contexts where our military are employed are almost unchanged, and I believe that anyone who has followed the commitment of our country in these scenarios will be able to assess with a sense of responsibility this decree-law. I note that the Government has deleted paragraph 2 of Article 13 which was the subject of my agenda approved in the last decree-law missions: it is a pity that, despite having been approved, we did not have the opportunity to have in the Commission an account of the maintenance activity of the naval units transferred by our Government to the Libyan Government and the training of the personnel of the Libyan Coast Guard. I would like to point out that during 2014, if I am not mistaken, 170,000 migrants have arrived, who are not Libyan - I would like to stress this, as Minister Gentiloni has also done - but citizens who come from Syria, from the Central African Republic, therefore from martyred areas; it is not an exodus of Libyans. It is worth noting that more than 40 million are also allocated for the strengthening of the aircraft surveillance and security device in the central Mediterranean, which must remain our priority, and I hope that under the aegis of the United Nations there may be a path leading to the stabilisation of Libya. We all have confidence in what we must do to put the Mediterranean at the heart of the priorities of international organisations. Regarding Italy's participation in the Atalanta anti-piracy mission... You should finish, Senator. BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I would like to remind you that the Indian Supreme Court is due to speak on 1 July 2015, and by that date it will have been about three and a half years. In conclusion, I hope that the commitment of Italian military personnel will soon resume within the EUMM monitoring mission in Georgia, a country that, being present in Afghanistan with 750 units, is the largest contributor of non-NATO countries and second in absolute. Finally, I would like to reply to Mr Santangelo, although he is not present. At first, when I arrived here, I did not know and had tabled any amendments to the Italian mission in Kosovo, but then, when I went to Kosovo, I realized that this mission, although it has lasted since 1999, has its full validity and it is right that it continues to exist. 1.700,000 euros are allocated for the implementation of humanitarian mine clearance programmes until 30 September 2015. The same amount has been allocated for the whole 2014... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u24	Senator Baptist, you may continue but I invite you to conclude quickly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u25	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, Madam President. I should like to conclude by recalling what has been amended by the House in Article 19-a (safety provisions for travellers): the consequences of travel abroad fall within the exclusive individual responsibility of those who take the decision to undertake or organise travel themselves. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u26	Madam President, I am speaking on this measure concerning measures to combat and prevent terrorist activities (although other issues are dealt with in this same draft law), especially to point out a concern which I would like the representatives of the Government to pay attention to. Above all, I wish we could be reassured about the speeches that are being planned. There is talk of the prevention of terrorist activities. Now, prevention, as we know, is not only about measures to change criminal sanctions, but above all about the strategies that are being put in place to prevent them. The first concern on which I want to focus this House's attention is the critical health infrastructure. Health is responsible for ensuring the operational continuity of healthcare companies and hospital companies even in the face of criminal events, especially of a terrorist nature. The great attention that should be placed at this time is to the presence within the plan, which the Government is certainly putting in place for the contrast and prevention, of a particular attention to health infrastructures. What happens if a hospital's tech system crashes? I don't even want to think about it, but surely not only do the monitors turn off and lose all the information we have available: from those in the operating rooms to those concerning the clinical history of patients. Above all, we risk not being able to use some particularly important infrastructure and equipment: from resuscitation to life-saving ones. We also risk not being able to rely on certain services (e.g. blood collection and emergency) that are important, not only for patients who are assisted at that time by the health system but especially because if there is a terrorist event, or at least a criminal event, the health system must be able to respond to the major demands that need to be addressed at that time. The European Council considers health infrastructure critical infrastructure. In 2004, following the events of 2001, the European Council called on all Member States to prepare a strategy for the protection of critical infrastructure internally, in particular to prevent possible terrorist attacks. Among the six types of critical infrastructure identified by the European Council are health infrastructure, including hospitals, health services, blood collection services, analysis laboratories and the pharmaceutical sector. Among other things, at that time the European Council had given a definition of critical infrastructures, namely those infrastructures whose degradation in the face of a criminal terrorist event could have a serious impact on the safety and well-being of Europeans and on the effective functioning of governments and Member States. There is no doubt, therefore, that this is an issue on which we cannot fail to keep our attention high. I imagine that the programmes which are currently being prepared at national level take into account the need to have a plan to safeguard health infrastructure: from those which guarantee the supply of energy and telecommunications to information technology and communication. Really aware of the risks that have been taking place in recent months, recent research gives elements of reassurance and concern. In just a few minutes, let me remind you that a strategic research and consultancy company (especially in ICT design), the Netics, at the end of 2014 carried out a sample survey of 65 health companies, to understand the situation regarding their computer security (physical, logistical and functional security concerns only one aspect of safety that should be guaranteed by health care). There are some positive elements, because it is noted that, in 76 percent of the hospitals interviewed, the person responsible declares that the situation is under control and is able to deal with any terrorist event or any criminal event. But the problem is that 24% of companies, which are mainly concentrated in the Mezzogiorno, underestimate the problem or openly declare that it is impossible to intervene for the safety of even servers, software equipment, data and tools that allow the system to function. We know the causes of the great deficit that, in some cases, occurs. However, in the face of measures to prevent and combat the damage caused by terrorist events, we cannot overlook the need to pay particular attention to these infrastructures as well. Among other things, unfortunately, it appears that Italian companies carry out a real risk assessment in some cases with a certain frequency but, in most cases, with a frequency too high compared to the evolution of the problems. In particular, the average settles over two years and two months years, which is certainly excessive and, above all, the activity of stress testing and simulation of attacks is non-existent. I have therefore taken the floor to speak during the debate on this decree-law, because I would like to see special attention paid to checking what is being done at the moment to counter the risks that may arise from a deterioration of the health system. And, if necessary, this activity needs to be strengthened, asking all regions to have a specific plan for the safeguarding of infrastructure and for the continuity in the provision of essential services. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u27	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u28	Madam President, we are once again faced with a decree-law which, individually, but not casually - certainly not the last time and certainly not the first - raises issues with a disorderly approach. These are issues that would require an in-depth reflection, but which are instead brought together in an uneven way in a single decree-law - which, of course, should not be lawful - while being relevant and respectful of which, in particular, our country and the two Chambers should present themselves united and compact. Moreover, this is a decree-law that renews itself, because the measure that renews the financing of international missions and cooperation interventions is certainly not an improvised one. It is, in fact, a measure that must be renewed on a regular basis and certainly does not come as a matter of urgency. Its contents have the right and the duty to be in-depth on our part and, precisely because they confront us abroad, other communities and problems that we must try to resolve together with other bodies, they should also see us compact. In fact, this decree-law renews, but also costlyly, the international missions, which are repeated and with respect to which we should have already measured the limits. These peace missions - as they are called - would aim to create conditions of democracy and even peace, which would then be their ultimate goal, but they do not succeed. And this is before the eyes of both those who are more interested in international phenomena and reads the international press or even the national press that deals with those countries and missions, and those who deal with domestic politics instead. The beautiful result of our peace missions is, in fact, before our eyes in the Mediterranean, with ever more frequent landings and catastrophes in the midst of the sea. And we see that this phenomenon, instead of decreasing, increases. In the face of a decree-law that renews international missions, we should, in the first place, raise the question of whether they are effective or not. Evidently, I'm not. But instead of finding the right space to understand what can and must be a different approach; instead of calling us back to the authority that comes from the skills of our diplomacy, which everyone recognizes us, to say that perhaps the approach should change, we tirefully renew our missions and costlyly embrace new and deeper failures. Perhaps we should begin by recognizing that peace can only be built if we start from a principle of equity, and what happens shows us this all the time. We invested a lot in missions in Afghanistan and last year's elections, which seemed to be Columbus' egg. Madam President, I see that my microphone is flashing, but I have more than five minutes available, because I have been given extra time. I would therefore like to continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u29	The Presidency is not aware of this, but it is flexible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u30	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). The elections - as I said - which had to resolve the situation, did not resolve it at all. And this of course is not brought to the scene and the spotlights have slowly shifted, because we always move on messages of a media nature. The elections in Afghanistan have not solved at all the burning problems of a state within which there are conflicts of an ethnic nature, where the will to create a government of national unity has, however, collided with the strong presence of conflict forces and in which, instead of improving the situation, we see that ISIS is advancing. All this, instead of leading us to make profound reflections - at this point also on the sense of this terrorism - leads us to graffazzone, within the decree-law under consideration, of the measures once again approximate and media, which concern terrorism and translate, precisely, into the reduction of those who are fundamental rights for us, such as - for example - the right to be questioned in prison only and exclusively if assisted. Well, this erosion of fundamental rights is what worries the most: it is legitimate to defend itself, but it is not legitimate for fear and fear to undermine the possibility of eroding constitutional rights. Moreover, it is not only in this decree-law that we see, through an operation dictated by media necessity, an attack on rights. But in many, too many other operations, instead of tackling the problems of substance and content systematically, we move on to the concept that law costs too much and, therefore, reduces it. And this happens everywhere: it happens in justice where, if the law costs too much, crime is decriminalized, in order to allow justice to be faster, which does not happen. This happens to education - if the right to education costs too much, we privatise - and it happens to health care. What I find most serious at this moment in the measure under discussion is that such an approach, which is disorderly, does not deal in depth and systematic and does not allow the Chambers to deepen point by point, except - as Senator Baptist said - mission by mission, at least the fundamental principles: this is the aspect that seems most difficult to accept. Senator Tonini spoke of prevention, consolidation of the conditions of peace and global approach. The problem is that all of this is neither in the method nor in the substance, because the real problems are not addressed, which are the ineffectiveness of our peace missions, the ineffectiveness of cooperation and of what already appears to be an ineffective measure against terrorism. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u31	We welcome the students of the Institutes of Higher Education - Aleotti and Umberto I of Andria, province of Barletta and Trani. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u32	Senator Alicata is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, recent events in Europe and Tunisia reveal the need and urgency to intervene to counter phenomena that can affect our country's security, as well as the stability of many countries in the Mediterranean area. What happened testifies not only to the usefulness of maintaining international missions, but also to the need, in the face of the serious and concrete threats, to put a stop to the continuous cuts in the defence and security sector. Never before is it necessary to have efficient, professional and well-equipped armed forces. The enemy is at the door and it is no longer a time of ideological anti-militarism, especially since part of our country's foreign policy is also carried out through the fruitful engagement of the Armed Forces. Having said that, this measure, which is intended to be an attempt to create a regulatory barrier to the threats of terrorism, appears to be a composite mix of heterogeneous measures. In addition to the usual refinancing of missions, there are a number of rules that concern precisely the fight against terrorism, even of international origin, with interventions on the penal code and specific measures to strike recruiters and recruits, providing for new penalties and new sanctions. In addition, the national anti-terrorism prosecutor is established, but it is merged with the national anti-mafia prosecutor, but it does not understand the reasonableness of this unification, being two phenomena, mafia and international terrorism, completely different. The operation is expected to be safe roads, with 4,800 soldiers who will be engaged in support of the police forces on the territory: excellent measure that, however, when introduced by the center-right, on the other side rose the accusation of wanting to militarize the country. It is a pleasure to see today that the left-wing government even wants to implement it. Of importance is the provision of greater functional protection for the staff of the information services, with the possibility also of conducting investigative talks in prison aimed at the fight against terrorism. In this regard, we believe it is useful to stress the crucial work of the security services in function of prevention, having to abandon, once and for all, the stereotypes and prejudices against fundamental apparatuses for the security of the State that have, however, the lack of being able to advertise the eventual successes brought back on the field in defense of democracy, our security and that of our military contingents engaged abroad. In this context, it is inconceivable that, in view of the new functions assigned to the information services, Forza Italia will continue to be excluded, until now, from the parliamentary control body. Following to leave out a political force that represents millions of citizens appears a laughable forcing, having our Group offered a viable solution that perhaps should be taken into consideration. Otherwise, there would be an extreme lack of sensitivity for an elementary exercise of political opportunities, as well as of style. Returning to the measure under discussion, the world, unfortunately, is in turmoil, tormented by tensions and conflicts with a Europe that presents scenarios that seemed relegated by now to history books. In our country there is indeed a need for appropriate preventive action from possible, disturbing situations that come from the Mediterranean area, but for which we have the impression that there is no full awareness, especially on the part of the European Union. On the other hand, the European Union and NATO have so far decided to focus more on the eastern border of Europe, as the Secretary-General of NATO recently confirmed at a hearing in the Senate. It is therefore urgent for our Government to make it clear with more energy that the real threat comes from the South front, where we play the crucial game for the security not only of our country, but of the whole of Europe, which cannot continue unceasingly to turn on the other side. It is certainly our Government's accomplice that, in the fabulous and unforgettable European semester under Italian leadership, has not promoted any useful initiative to urge European partners to take initiatives and responsibilities on this very important issue. And on the Libyan chaos, from which the potential threats come, we still record the guilty inactivity of this Government, despite the fact that for a long time Italy had received an unofficial mandate from the allies to deal with the Libyan issue. It was the historical reasons for former colonial power, the geographical ones and the fact that, perhaps, we understand that country better than others, thanks to our diplomacy and the brilliant work of our information systems. However, the Renzi Executive did not move a finger when the legitimate government was forced to flee to Tobruk. Not a finger has moved France, which is also the main responsible for that chaos. Still today, however, he stutters, waiting for the diplomatic action of the UN High Representative, Bernardino Leon, to be resolved positively. These, however, have to deal with a myriad of owls, so dear to our dear Premier, armed to the teeth. The same Leon, in recent weeks, had suggested to Europe and Italy to organize, meanwhile, a naval blockade in front of the Libyan coasts, in order to prevent the arrival of weapons by sea and, as far as we are concerned, to block the departures and the no longer tolerable invasion of our coasts. But from this measure, which could have been effective, and for us to have a duty, not having the economic and social capacity to cope alone with the misfortunes of an entire continent, the Government and the European Union have distanced themselves. We remain inert, rather than giving a signal of serious country and united Europe against criminal organizations that, through trafficking, finance terrorism. The only preventive action put in place by our country, included in the decree-law under consideration with four financing money, remains the operation "Safe Sea" for which we are grateful to Minister Pinotti and Undersecretary Rossi. Let more careful checks be made to prevent attacks on Western ships, as well as to protect our interests and our safety. We would, however, like to better understand the contours of this operation, which has been transformed into a course of work from an exercise to a patrolling of the central Mediterranean. How long, Undersecretary Rossi? With the summer and waiting for other initiatives to be taken, the operation could turn into a new Mare nostrum, which was - as we know - a humanitarian success, but a failure on that of prevention and an expensive and dangerous flywheel that has stimulated the criminal organizations engaged in trafficking. For God's sake, we're all happy when we save human lives. Today, however, more than ever, we have the duty to combine the reception with the needs of our security and no one can exclude, much less this Government of the commercials, that among migrants they do not infiltrate terrorists, even a few, a risk that already many prosecutors consider serious and high. Meanwhile, with a slow and deaf European Union understanding the gravity of the phenomenon, the measures included in the Decree-Law seek to put an obstacle to the new threats. But in practice, such measures will probably have little deterrent force, because to counter with the penal code the intentions of those who want to get blown up, of those who love death more than we love life, seems arduous exercise. Perhaps it would have been more driver to invest some extra money on prevention, internal security, thinking of new hirings or unlocking the turnover, investing, in short, on human resources and training of the Forces of the Order. Conversely, the staff are going to be further emptied in many Italian cities for the organization of Expo and the Jubilee, thus leaving important areas of the country uncovered, with the threat of terrorism at the gates. So, ineffable Government, the security of the Italians is at stake and your commercials have frankly tired. All the measures announced to defend sensitive objectives are the result of ridiculous propaganda and do not apply, because men and means are lacking. The stations and airports (including Fiumicino) are deprived of the most basic controls, and certainly not because of the Forces of Order. As this decree-law is passed, the government closes dozens of police stations and the police unions complain about the lack of professional updating for the fight against terrorism. Then, rather than announcing treasures of one and a half billion to be spent on pre-election grants, as with the 80 euros at the European elections, think the Premier to reduce the tax burden and possibly use this alleged sum by also intervening on the defence and security sector. On the other hand, we wish the President of the Council well, but the Italian citizens who have nothing to do with this government! The refinancing of the missions, Madam President, is certainly not a waste of money, but a valuable instrument for those countries and peoples affected by conflicts, to which our soldiers make a primary contribution in terms of commitment and sacrifice for peace. We hope, however, that, in the near future, these missions will be more thoughtful, in the sense that, at times, it seems that our country follows only the choices of others: once we listen to President Obama; once Sarkozy; once Cameron; once, unfortunately, the weak Government of the time, made even weaker by the initiatives of the President of the Republic, listened and could not resist the solicitations of those who today, from senator to life, play with the discharge barrel. The government evaluates, once and for all, whether the missions coincide with our strategic interests, avoiding to comply with inadequate choices, whose consequences then invest us closely. With bitterness, today we pay the price of over-chism and the inadequacy of the Chancellors of half the world, forced to deal with the most serious threat to international balances that, through Libya, continues its march of approach to our country. I shall conclude, Madam President, with a few words on the matter of the two seas. Officially we are firm to the Foreign Minister Mogherini who, about a year ago, began his new role, elegantly announcing to the Defence Commission of the Senate, before even to the press, that he was going to run the international arbitration. In addition, at the suggestion of President Casini, he agreed to involve oppositions. Of course, nothing was true: neither arbitration nor the proper involvement of oppositions. Since then nothing new, apart from the new comfortable chair for Mrs. Mogherini. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u34	She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the latest events in Europe and in some countries of the Middle East and North Africa have highlighted the expansion of the jihadist terrorist threat. Faced with the world, with the West, with Europe, there is a terrible threat with which to confront one another by joining forces and without falling into the game of fear that, by every means and in particular with absolute brutality, terrorism puts on the field to make us weak and defenceless. Fighting their communication strategy based on fear and terror, without weakening or even weakening the absolute bond of every democracy, that is, security and freedom, is the absolute priority. There are various levers that must be moved, but having always strong and indissoluble that binomial (security-freedom) and the values, principles and constraints of our Constitutional Charter. One of these first levers, which the same decree-law that we are discussing, is certainly an increasingly appropriate policy of prevention and protection from terrorist threats: prevention that must be carried out not only internally, but also internationally, with particular reference to territories with greater criticality, as was also said this morning. The consolidation of peace and stabilisation processes in areas of crisis, in addition to being the priority response to fight terrorism in its various forms and articulations, increasingly acquires a preventive function and becomes an essential element of foreign policy, with positive repercussions also on the security of citizens. The fight against terrorism requires, in fact, a concrete, responsible and global approach to the issues it poses, through measures aimed at strengthening the instruments of prevention and repression of the phenomenon not only within our country, but also through participation in international missions that meet the same goals. And the measure before the House today contains the necessary and urgent provisions, in accordance with Article 77 of the Constitution, in order to combat the growth of terrorism which, especially in recent times, has shown its most ferocious and alarming face, with an incredible rise. Umberto Eco, recently, compared the IS to a new form of Nazism, dedicated to extermination and the apocalyptic will to seize the world. I believe it is a shared judgment, which involves all the dynamics of globalization, putting to the test - as I said - the capacities of democratic states to guarantee security and freedom, acceptance and integration, secularism of institutions and freedom of worship, also drawing strength from the extraordinary ability of religions to create solidarity, cohesion and subsidiarity. In the state, the terrorist threat to our continent, rather than from structured organizations, comes from a diverse world of fanatics, made of solitary wolves and war professionals returned from the fronts of jihad. Both individual terrorists or microcells who decide to activate themselves, as well as the returners, militants returning from the fighting experience, have an additional rate of danger, due - second, I believe, all of us - to the high unpredictability of their actions. In this context, therefore, it becomes inevitable to complete the existing regulatory framework - the objective of the decree-law under discussion - by introducing appropriate and selective measures to prevent the strengthening of terrorist organisations and to carry out more stringent controls on the means and materials that could be used to carry out attacks also in the national territory. I am fully convinced that Italy, which is one of the potential objectives of terrorist action, by virtue both of its participation in the international coalition against IS and of its centrality for the Christian world, will play a fundamental role in the same very important challenges that Muslims of Europe and of the whole world, who do not resign themselves to fanaticism apparently and groundedly based on religion. For this reason not only are the "theories" that attribute faults and responsibilities to migrants - those thousands of men, women and children moved by the will and the need to flee from wars and violence - but they also weaken objectively, with a political polemic all instrumental to the single battle of our "courtyard" at home, the broad and united deployment that should be put on the field to truly beat terrorism and defend our country. We must move with conviction towards inclusive policies that tend to weaken those situations that can, in some way, feed extremist choices. In the fight against terrorism, however, enhanced cooperation between European intelligence agencies and police forces is also important, as well as regulatory measures to increase intervention capacity on the phenomenon of so-called foreign fighters, as does the decree-law. The question that we ask ourselves and have asked ourselves is, in fact, how traditional methods of investigating and combating terrorism can combat and combat today's terrorism. The most recent attacks involving Western countries have been carried out by entities not belonging structurally to terrorist organisations, but which have been inspired by them (Al-Qaeda or IS). As others have said, this makes the law enforcement and prevention activity much more complicated and, precisely for this reason, the contribution that intelligence is called to make and to which the decree-law assigns new instruments becomes fundamental. Similarly, if we take into account that we have orders that sometimes they do not talk to each other and that sometimes we cannot even have the same types of treatment for the same crimes, we see that, then, the creation of an investigation coordination - the counter-terrorism that unites with anti-mafia - can really be very important to us. Moreover, the provisions contained in the decree-law are in the perspective of consistency with the most advanced international law, aimed at giving complete implementation also to Resolution No. 2178 of September 2014 (as Senator Tonini recalled this morning). With these rules - it is worth remembering - the UN obliges to repress a series of conducts aimed at facilitating, through direct involvement, the carrying out of terrorist acts also in foreign territory, sometimes consisting in the activity that foreign fighters put in place to support armed conflicts with terrorist groups and organizations. In this sense it is important to introduce a new criminal case in the penal code, that of organizing transfers for terrorism purposes, which punishes with imprisonment from five to eight years also anyone organizing, financing or propaganda trips abroad aimed at carrying out conducts with purposes of terrorism. In the same way, it is important to criminalise the person who trains to carry out terrorist activities, as well as the one who is trained and the one who acquires, even independently, the instructions for carrying out terrorist acts, providing for an additional burden in the event that such crimes are carried out by means of telematic means. And this is all the more important because recent events have shown us the existence of subjects who, in front of the web, at home, learn to put bombs on and even to make them before wearing them, go out of the house and, in the middle of the city - as happened in Milan in October 2009 - go to a barracks of targets and try to get blown up. Today, therefore, by converting the decree-law in question, we try to definitively introduce a provision that also punishes this type of conduct, which is not possible before. In summary, the measure under consideration - in my opinion and in the opinion of the Democratic Party - provides the right approach to the complexity of combating the terrorist phenomenon. But it is also crucial that the decree-law is not only aimed at strengthening criminal, substantive and procedural law on international terrorism, but also allows participation in international missions of the armed forces and police aimed at cooperation, development and support for reconstruction and peace processes. Even if we face it every semester, it is not a normal subject, a mere rituality and formality. Every time we have the opportunity to discuss the content of the missions, the coherence of the missions and the role of cooperation. The important thing - I believe - is always to reaffirm the principle and value of missions and cooperation. In the specific case of the extensions, it would have been sufficient to refer to the country's need to participate in the anti-IS coalition, or to the novelty of the participation of military personnel in the new NATO mission in Afghanistan. It would be enough to name only these cases to favor the vote. Instead, as a Democratic Party, we wanted to deepen the primary role of Italy within these missions, our active participation in the international community and, therefore, the credibility of the Country, the preparation of our Armed Forces, the capacity of Italy, but also the coherence of the missions with the priorities of Italian foreign policy and the international community. In conclusion, we are all called to participate in the world that will come and our country, which has always been the gateway to the Mediterranean, will have greater capacity to guarantee the security of the citizens the more it will be able to become protagonist in the processes of peace and modernization, development and democracy. Europe is called upon to measure its capacity for political and cultural influence to respond to terrorism without - I repeat - restrictions on fundamental freedoms, but by investing in the strengths of democracy. 18.20 (Faithful follow-up). And it is in this direction that further steps can also be taken thanks to the substance of the measure before the House today. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u36	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u37	As the rapporteurs do not intend to speak in response, I call the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Bubbico.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u38	Mr President, allow me to speak briefly to begin by thanking the rapporteurs and the Presidents of the Commission for their valuable work on past days, as well as all my fellow senators who have spoken in this debate, including those who have expressed the most critical positions or expressed a position of total opposition to the measures contained in the decree-law. On this subject, in fact, we must never stop thinking and accepting different points of view, because the threat we face - at least this seems to us to be shared - is true and present in Europe and in our country. And serious threats must be addressed by setting up the most appropriate instruments and also by showing willingness to bear costs. The security of our country and of our citizens cannot be guaranteed, in fact, except through a further investment, which means intensifying the activity of prevention and also bear individual and collective costs in terms of acceptance of the effects determined by the new rules introduced in our system. The instruments put in place through this decree-law aim to make more effective the action of contrast and prevention, first through the establishment of a central point of coordination. The National Anti-Mafia Public Prosecutor also becomes a national anti-Mafia and anti-terrorism prosecutor, enabling us to interact with our European partners, to be able to exchange quickly and effectively any useful information, to be able to coordinate the work of our prosecutors, so much so as to take timely action to take all necessary measures to avoid acts of terrorism that can call into question security in our country. Those rules must, today, support the heavy work of the judiciary and the police, to which we will never lack our thanks for the work done, even in difficult conditions. Our police forces have always been able to honour the oath of fidelity to the Republic that they have pronounced, knowing how to manifest every effort, every professional capacity and every individual sacrifice, as recognized by all our allies and by our European and international partners. With this measure we also want to point out a political issue which cannot be evaded; that is to say, the need to develop a common European policy, more capable of pronouncing a protagonism capable of eliminating those outbreaks of conflict that fuel international terrorism and those initiatives aimed at preventing the radicalisation of positions, which is the premise or soup of culture that is very useful to international terrorism projects. I want to conclude by thanking also the structures of the State, our prefectures, the territorial offices of the Government that, precisely in relation to the threat that we all feel to be present and current, have developed every useful initiative to update the picture of the sensitive objectives present in the national territory. From this point of view, we not only welcome the indications, suggestions and criticisms that have emerged in this debate, but also the very useful and relevant indications aimed at strengthening and improving our system of defence and protection of the fundamental functions of the State. In this sense, the indications and assessments of Senator Dirindin's need to show particular attention, as well as for other infrastructures, to those addressed to health protection functions, not only in ordinary but also in emergency terms, for those structures that develop intensive activity, seems particularly relevant to me. We therefore accept these indications, but in the certainty that the structures of the State and the Republic, through the protagonism of the Regions, owners of the organization of the health service, are already following them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the State Secretary for Defence, Mr Rossi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u39	Mr President, I agree with the statements made by Vice-Minister Bubbico in thanking all those who have examined this measure, from the Presidents of the Commission, the rapporteurs, the individual senators, both those who have expressed their support and those who have expressed their criticisms because they serve as a stimulus not only for this measure but also for the future. [[Mr Boschi entered the Chamber. Comments and ironic applause from the M5S Group]] I would like to focus on three main points that emerged during the debate. The first point concerns the strategic vision at the time of the deliberations of the missions and the subsequent extension is approved. Some have questioned the fact that the Government wants to complete the enactment and approval of the framework law. I repeat here the continuous and effective commitment that the Government is carrying out at the Defence Commission of the House to reach as soon as possible the approval of a framework law that allows to separate the examination of the individual missions from the financial examination. The second point I would like to stress is that Parliament's suggestions are certainly useful in view of the changes that can be made to the subsequent measures for the approval of the missions. I refer, in particular, to what has been identified by this measure in terms of rationalization of missions abroad, which has resulted in the closure of certain missions and a reduction of defence spending by about 10%. The third point, in view of the fact that someone has spoken of commercials and not concrete measures, requires me to remember some numbers: 3,400 men of the armed forces employed on the territory, with an increase of 1,800 men. About 600 additional men at 1,800 in the Expo 2015, to conclude with an increase from 200 to 300 men employed in the control of the Earth of fires. These are concrete data that massively increase the overall presence of the Security Forces in our territory. I remember, precisely because someone reiterated it both in a positive and negative sense, that our Armed Forces today have that professionalism and potential, already verified abroad, in order to be able to intervene alongside the police in terms of strengthening and controlling sensitive points. I shall conclude by drawing on the last speech on the credibility of the country and on how this credibility is also entrusted to missions abroad. I believe that a concrete parliamentary support of the content of the measure gives not only a positive image to the country, but above all gives a positive signal to those men and women, in any uniform, with stars and without, who at every moment of their daily life are committed to ensuring the protection of the security of the citizens and of this State. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u40	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. He asked the Minister for Constitutional Reforms and Relations with Parliament, Mr Boschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption of the single article of draft law No 1854, in the text already approved by the House of Deputies. [[Ironic applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u42	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 7, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore call on the Conference of Group Presidents to organise the debate. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 6.32 p.m. and resumed at 7.20 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u43	The Conference of the Leaders has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the approval of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 7, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. For the general discussion on confidence, one hour and twenty minutes were allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The final explanations of vote will take place tomorrow morning, starting at 9.30 a.m. and the call will start around 11 a.m. As regards the continuation of work, it was decided that, after the vote on the matter of trust, the Assembly would continue to examine the ratification of the amendments to the Convention on the physical protection of nuclear materials. The agenda for tomorrow's sessions also includes the follow-up to the examination of the draft law on the reorganisation of public administrations, as well as the examination of ratifications of international agreements and motions on animal abuse, the economic and social crisis in Sardinia and broadband. At the same time as the meeting of a parliamentary group, tomorrow, from 1 p.m. to 3 p.m., the work of the Commissions, with the exception of the Commissions 1a and 5a, will be contradicted. At 12.30 p.m. on Thursday 16 April, the Minister of Justice will make a statement on the tragic events that took place on 9 April at the Palazzo di Giustizia in Milan. The inspection union will follow. Next week, the Assembly will meet again from Tuesday morning, 21 April, at 11 a.m. for the examination of the decree-law on the holding of regional elections. The other arguments already foreseen remain firm, with the understanding that the vote on the Finance Economy Document will take place on the afternoon of Thursday 23 April. Therefore, the expected question time will not take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u44	Colleagues, I briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 7.23 p.m. and resumed at 7.26 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u45	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. He's enlisted to speak Senator Minzolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u46	Mr President, I am a little puzzled because, in my opinion, it would have been necessary for the government to avoid putting trust in such matters. On matters concerning emergencies such as terrorism and international missions it would have been necessary to seek a greater consensus from the Government, since they are emergencies that concern everyone, nobody excluded. Above all, such a thing would probably have given everyone the opportunity, on the one hand, to contribute to tackling a problem of such great importance, such as fundamentalist terrorism, and, on the other hand, to also give support to our soldiers in international missions. Apart from that, I have an issue that I do not want to keep in my conscience, and it is a point that I have dealt with in the past. You see, colleagues, a country at international level is taken seriously if it is consistent and if it follows the facts to words. In the case of the Marò di parole, in this House too, we have said a lot about it, but we have done very little about it - I regret to say that. We complained, but then we couldn't stop this thing from dragging for years. Three governments - Monti's, Letta's, Renzi's - committed themselves in vain. Even the current Premier had put the issue at the top of the things to do, if it is true, as it is true, that his first act was a phone call of encouragement, and commitment, in India to the Maros. More than a year ago I proposed here in the Senate, precisely on the decree-law missions, the suspension of our participation in international missions against piracy in protest against the attitude of the Indian Government on the case of our maròs, precisely. As I said at the time, it is paradoxical that our soldiers are being tried for actions carried out on an international mission, and in this House many people have agreed with me. A year has passed, the situation has not changed much and now in this measure we decide to consider whether or not to interrupt our participation in this mission at the deadline of 30 September. It seems to me very little, and the little in question is also not serious. A pressure - as I said last February, and the facts were right - is exercised not by postponing, but by taking a strong decision immediately and, if anything, by suspending it in case of a positive outcome. Therefore, in this measure it would have been the case, if not simply to suspend our participation in that mission immediately, at least to put a sort of safeguard clause in black and white. To decide, that is, already now a simple possibility, that at international level everyone would have understood: the interruption to 30 September of our participation in the mission against piracy without the return to the home of our maròs. Instead, the government has decided to use an absolutely generic formula, proving once again that our threats are written on the water. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] That is why at least that article would have had my vote against. But I take advantage of the case of the Maròs to open a more general reflection. There will be time and way to deepen the subject, but here I want to repeat that our participation in the missions only makes sense if it gives us the opportunity to have an international role of some importance. We are the second or third country (both for men and for resources) as a presence in missions, but this commitment does not correspond to a weight, if not equal, at least consequent in the decisions taken in international bodies. This discrepancy may have been acceptable in the past, given that the outbreaks of crisis were far away. But now, beyond the mockery of the Maròs, how should we behave if the most serious crises are behind us? What attitude must we have if international bodies, starting with NATO, underestimate the Libyan crisis and, more generally, the emergence of caliphates in North Africa and the Middle East that threaten us and can export the conflict through terrorism to our country, to our cities? What is the point of keeping troops around the world when Italy is subjected to a real invasion of illegal immigrants or refugees fleeing from wars that take place a few hundred kilometres from our coasts, almost in general indifference, not only of international bodies, but also of political realities of which we are part, like the European Union, which often leave us alone? And of this condition our country bears a daily cost, even in the facts of the news: we assure the safety of maybe some Afghan court, but the State does not have the men to guarantee that of the Milan court. Well, I do not say that we must withdraw, that we must no longer commit ourselves. Far from it. But our presence in international missions must be combined more than ever, and certainly more than in the past, with our foreign policy, with our national interests and in relation to the weight that can guarantee us in international bodies. It is no longer the time to be present always and anyway in any place. The economic crisis and the wars around the corner have made rhetoric fail. I hope that the government will take on these issues in the future, more and better than it has done so far. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u47	Senator Di Biagio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u48	Mr President, representatives of the Government, I wanted to share with this House some reflections at this stage of the examination of the measure, also because of the limited time allowed for the discussion, which allowed the deepening of some interesting amending proposals that would represent an added value for the whole system of the measure. All this in view of the positions assumed by the oppositions on some parts of the decree-law, which led the Government to the determination of the vote of confidence. I cannot agree with the decision to put the question of trust which inevitably causes the whole parliamentary debate to lapse. Here is the value of my will to be able to express, in some way, a judgment on this decree-law. It is an act which penalises, once again, the operation of this branch of Parliament. All this on a varied and heterogeneous measure where also delicate provisions come together, such as those relating to the fight against terrorism, with the introduction of new cases of crime for the emergence and the contrast of the same. New and sensitive arguments which, although legitimate, deserve to be dealt with in an appropriate and different measure from the current one. But I can understand the existence of a practical urgency which could legitimise the omnibus nature of the measure. Certainly, the decree-law under consideration assumes a configuration of greater importance because of the current historical-strategic situation in which the international commitment of our country is renewed and amplified. The measure, therefore, is affected by this renewed exploitation which cannot be ignored. The provisions, therefore, define the role that Italy wants to play and wants to maintain in the international scenario, in terms of cooperation and support for foreign policy initiatives and participation in the stabilisation of geopolitical and international scenarios, in a scenario in which international balances present a complex and dense situation of new challenges arising from the emergence of new outbreaks of conflict. Without neglecting the growing challenge posed by the new realities linked to international terrorism to the whole of the West, and to Europe in the first place, before which we must be able to change the instruments of confrontation and response. The scenario before us is constantly evolving and this inevitably involves a redefinition of the role of the countries that are the leaders in international missions and, consequently, also of Italy. We must be aware of this. Also because all the changes that are taking place require clear positions. Personally, I am convinced - and I have always said so - of the need and opportunity to support Italy's participation in international missions. This is not only because of the dynamics and commitments that derive from our membership of the European Union and international bodies, but also because of the excellent results that our quotas have achieved in the many scenarios, with initiatives on the cooperation and peacekeeping activities that have seen us engaged in these years. I do not forget the important role played by Italy in critical scenarios, such as that of Lebanon, without neglecting diplomatic initiatives aimed at defining dialogue with moderate Islamic countries and strengthening the national model of development cooperation. And I am convinced of the need to strengthen counter-terrorism measures, just at a time when this phenomenon is rising on a number of fronts. As I said, the measure intervenes on many issues that could have been improved through the Senate's amending action. So today's is a missed opportunity. I do not believe that this is the place to enter into the substance of possible and fallen amending proposals, but I call on the Government and the Assembly to reflect on some aspects not dealt with in the measure, which affix, for example, to what will be the role of the military corps of the Red Cross, validly and historically active in areas of crisis and which is the subject of a work of real dismantling that we cannot fail to take into account here, especially if we look at the ratio of some provisions of the measure; I refer to those relating to the strengthening and extension of the employment of military personnel due to renewed security needs on the national and international front. We cannot fail to see a kind of contradiction between the legitimate ambitions of the decree-law under consideration and certain practical and harmful aspects of other measures. Greater harmonisation would be necessary when faced with the potential of our country on the security front and that of commitments, which cannot and must not be disregarded or diminished. A harmonisation that has been recorded, for example, on the coordination of investigation investigations for terrorist offences, which shows that it is effective to adapt new areas of action to an existing operating system that adapt to a changing scenario. The premises are certainly commendable. What has not been found in the method and in the combination of too many questions, whose delicacy deserved much more in-depth study. I am sure that the subject under consideration, particularly as regards the fight against terrorism and the new regulations, will find room on other occasions of deepening and I hope that the Government will offer some ideas for reflection in which the Senate can also participate in a very active way. [[Applause from Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u49	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u50	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u53	D'ANNA (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV)). Mr President, through you, I hope not unsuccessfully, I am here to represent the suppression of the supervisory union power reserved for senators. I believe I also represent the needs for many other facts that I am aware of. For months, several months, we have received no answer to the questions or to the questions, least of all to urgent questions with the signature of some 40 senators. I cannot understand the difference between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, because as a Member I always found a timely answer within twenty or thirty days to the questions; these were on average the response times. I would remind you that I have asked questions several times from myself and the parent company Ferrara, but, in the state, many of them have become anachronistic. Then perhaps we should abolish the power of inspection union for senators. I do not know who is responsible for all this, if the evanescence of the Government, which often has every interest in not answering, is that you count as much as the two trumps - with all the respect that is due to you - because you do not respect the prerogatives of the Senate and of the senators, and therefore subjugate what the President of the Council and the various Ministers decide, that is, whether to answer or not to answer. So I wonder, what do we have to do? Any striking gestures? Do we have to dress up as clowns? Do we have to go on a hunger strike? Are we going to have to give you a pinnacle to prove that you don't count anything at all, or are we going to stop questioning and questioning the government? Mr President, I am sorry that you are the President-in-Office of the Council, but do not give me the usual, eminently bureaucratic answer. I shall conclude by saying to you and also to the officials that I, with 35 other senators, have asked the Interior Minister to say a clear word about the timing of the forthcoming provincial elections in those municipalities where they will take place on 20 April. In these municipalities, especially in those commissioners or those that are being dissolved or dissolved because the mayors have resigned, in compliance with the regional law, in order to be able to run, there are entire communities that are excluded, even if by an indirect election, from the possibility of electing the president of the Province and provincial councillors. If we cannot even get answers in order and with regard to general and urgent problems, because on 20 April it is preparing to arrive, you will explain to us what 35 senators are worth with regard to the bullying or insipidity or the overspokenness - excuse me for the Neapolitan term - of the President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u54	You have rightly called for the answer that is regrettable has not been given. We hope that this solicitation will also bring it about.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u55	We greet the students and the teachers of the Technical Agricultural Institute "Antonio Cecchi" in Pesaro, in the province of Pesaro and Urbino, who are witnessing the conclusion of our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u58	Montevecchi (M5S). The National Anti-Mafia Public Prosecutor's Office has in recent days called attention to some areas inside Expo given to Oscar Farinetti's association and its Eataly and has recognized - from what we understand - a process of entrusting these spaces without a call for competition. Now, in Emilia-Romagna there is the FICO project, which should take place in the area occupied by the AgroAlimentary Centre of Bologna (CAAB), which is part of the economic, but also cultural heritage of this city, the large fruit and vegetable market, on which precisely the great Disneyland of the world of agriculture and peasants should arise. A Disneyland that seems to have been conceived and that will be realized again in this case thanks to agreements that have not provided for competitions and calls of confidence; instead it seems that in the agreement reached the CAAB had to assume the responsibility to mediate with the local administrations for the project to be realized and making available only the structures (which I think will remain practically only columns with roofs). This project, which has been passed on as a great ecological project, a great project that would promote zero kilometer, in our opinion will do nothing but perpetrate old policies and old dynamics. We therefore want to ask and support a request for clarification made by our regional advisors on these direct trusts, which therefore have not passed through a call for tenders, as if to say that the bad national practices reverb and continue to be carried out also at local level, thanks, in our opinion, to the complacency of administrations that certainly do not have at heart the common good and the stop to the consumption of soil, but that instead have other interests at heart. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u61	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I would like to bring to the attention of this House, although many will already know, the arrest of another mayor, the mayor of Marino Laziale, on Thursday (9 April) on the charge of peculate and corruption. Once again a vote of exchange: they exchange crosses on the ballot in exchange for concessions and jobs; a custom that is now becoming known. But that is not what I would like to focus on, but rather on the consequences paid by citizens when they administer. For example, just to talk about the town of Marino Laziale, there is the great danger of a megacolata of cement in an area where there is a sanctuary, the Sanctuary of the Divine Love; then there are problems of detachments of water, without any respect for human dignity, and again, a management of the garbage completely vicious. We wonder, therefore, in the light of the administrative management of this mayor, Silvagni, what is behind all these works, since he has this way of acting. This is the point: customer management is not only a damage in the vote of exchange, but it is also a damage in the management of public affairs because it involves abuse for citizens. In these circumstances, it must be considered, if necessary, to immediately annul all acts carried out by these gentlemen and to reset the Councils. The speculators within the public administrations must disappear because they live on the shoulders of the unsuspecting citizens; therefore everything that has been approved by this mayor should be revoked. Our advisors to the 5 Star Movement of Marino have urged prefect and minister, but this unworthy mess, which now sees arrested every day a mayor or an administrator of your political groups, right or left (so to speak), must end and everything that they have accomplished these gentlemen must be canceled. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u64	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to point out - but you will all know what has happened in these hours - that human traffickers have fired in the air to take back boats in the Mediterranean. These shots were in the air, but indirectly to those who helped people in the middle of the sea. Not only was there our Coast Guard, but also other representatives of a European country, i.e. the Icelandics. Having said that, Mr President, at such a difficult time I cannot understand how a majority and a President-in-Office of the Council demand confidence in a very sensitive subject, of almost vital importance for our country and for Europe, namely anti-terrorism measures and international peace missions. I apologise for using this strong word: it is criminal to propose it, but it is an even more criminal act to accept confidence in these matters. It is shameful to propose confidence on issues of anti-terrorism and international peace missions. It is a criminal not to open up and not to discuss such sensitive issues in this House. I do not understand how we can be a representative of the people in this House and not have the dignity to make Parliament speak on very sensitive issues and to find convergences in the interests of the country and in the interests of our fellow citizens. So I find myself in serious difficulty in questioning myself and asking myself whether many of the Members of this House are alone and exclusively extras who do not know the meaning of the role they play. Mr President, I would ask you to give me one more minute to give me my last thought. I do it aloud for myself, but indirectly I would also like it to be heard with my ears and my heart by the Members present in this House. Are we in this House to create the conditions for a better livability of our territory and our country, or are we - and I am excluding myself with most of those who belong to my group - within this Parliament to exercise a role, to raise our hands at a certain time because it was suggested to us by someone who does not know the rules of democracy? That's what I'm wondering about. I am afraid to see wise men, who carry the baggage of their "culture" in the difficulty of movements, not understand that they should defend their children by creating the conditions for a true democracy. What is democracy instead? That of being slaves and servants of a President-in-Office of the Council who does not recognise Parliament and wants to replace it with a dictatorship. Mr President, it is very heavy and shameful to see another vote of confidence. It is even more shameful to see the yes of this vote of confidence by the majority Members. [[Applause from Senator Castaldi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u65	We'll see about that after the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u66	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-429.ana.u67	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 15 April, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.55 p.m.
