ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Barani, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 15 January.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u4	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are asking for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the report by the Minister for Justice on the administration of justice. I recall that at yesterday's sitting after the Minister's speech the debate took place and motions for resolutions No 1 were tabled by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Zeller and Susta, No 2, Senator Stefani and other Senators, No 3, Senator De Petris and other Senators, and No 4, Senator Buccarella and other Senators. I call on the Minister for Justice, Mr Orlando, to respond, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u9	Mr President, I should like to thank the Senators who spoke in the debate yesterday. I believe that they have made a contribution which makes it possible to give a sense and an outlet, even a political one, to the debate that has taken place in this House. I would like to start from a few considerations that have been made about the issue of civil justice. I am pleased that efforts have been made to put this issue at the heart of the debate and the debate, after a long time that it was not annexed to it. I have never said - I address the many who have emphasized it - that the decree that has been approved is decisive. The decree on civil justice has a propedeutica value compared to a structural reform of the matter. However, it can stimulate an evolution of the system in two directions. The first is that of a different role of the lawyer, of a different function of the lawyering, so much so that - as I said in the report - I consider the measures to implement the reform of the legal order to be one with the reform. In short, in a country where the number of lawyers has grown to a great extent, we must also imagine another function, that is not simply to protect the rights before the judges, but that can also be that of protecting the rights through a role and a function of mediation and settlement of the conflict. In this respect, I must first of all respond to Senator Giarrusso. In this Report I did not make any substantive assessments, but I simply provided an objective statement, namely that the dispute has fallen from previous years and that a reversal of the trend has occurred. Now, from this point of view, the question of justice is certainly a fact from which we must start, but we must ask ourselves a question: is the size of the question of justice in our country physiological? Is that normal? The references we can have are two: the other countries and the historical series. If we look at other countries we see that our litigation is significantly higher. For example, we have three and a half times Germany's litigation. If we look, instead, to the historical series, we see that from the second post-war period until the beginning of the 2000s the trend has been systematically increasing and has culminated in a peak of almost 6 million causes in 2009. It was only 3 million in 1995, i.e. 2 million more proceedings were opened over ten years. Is that a fact that only needs to be taken into account? This question is also addressed to those who have asked the question. I don't think so. I believe that the growth in the demand for justice is also due to changes of a social nature that have been determined and to the crisis of some subjects who, before the judgment before the judge, were able to recompose the social conflict. The failure of such subjects has cast a question on the jurisdiction that cannot simply be registered, but that must be interpreted, prevented, recomposed. No legal system, structurally, is able to withstand a demand for justice as high as the one that has come to manifest itself in our country. In this sense, building tools that somehow replace the subjects that made up the conflict in the history of our country is, in my opinion, a way to help jurisdiction to face its function. In this sense, I reject the reference to privatisation because privatisation is taking place today. When you have to spend seven, eight, nine or ten years waiting for a judge, what is more privatised than the force ratios that come to determine when one of the parties can wait and the other can't? The privatisation of justice takes place when justice is not there and the resolution of the conflict is merely a matter of force, class relations and social positioning. Building a jurisdiction in which lawyering can also play a subsidiary role is a way by which to restore centrality to public jurisdiction. I remember, among other things, that all the interventions that we have foreseen always maintain the possibility of the intervention of the judge and the willfulness of the choice to return to a person who is not the judge. Of course, the measures introduced are not enough. I have repeatedly stressed the need to gradually strengthen incentives for out-of-court solutions, as I have reiterated the fact that there is a further and necessary recognition to be made of what is not considered strictly necessary by a court. As far as marriage is concerned, we have not done an ideological operation and we have not even chosen - as it would be legitimate to do and as I believe the Senate intends to do - to question the design of family law. We have just asked ourselves a question: where we are simply faced with an act, where there are no elements that call into question the relationship of force between the parties that appear, is it really necessary to go before a judge, to stand before a court? The answer was no. And in that sense, I believe that we must continue to do this. There are many other activities that have an almost administrative value and which are carried out by the jurisdiction, but which cannot afford to carry out functions that are not strictly those of decision and decision on the concrete case. This work will be supplemented by delegation and will develop a concept that I consider essential: that of the specialization of the offer of justice. We seek and must try to identify the causes of the demand for justice, we must select it, we must subtract from it what is mainly administrative and connotationd not attributable to the litigation; however, once this operation is done, we must also specialize in the offer, because today there is no longer a possible figure of judge allologue. Faced with the articulation of the economy and society, the fragmentation that exists in society, we have to build responses that, in some way, take into account the need to combine technical skills with the decision on the concrete case. I make a recommendation to this House, because I think some of the points have been worrying. Let us not divide ourselves on the recognition of a great result that is that of the departure and success, with all the contradictions and limitations, of the telematic civil process. It is not the merit of this Government, I have never claimed it: the merit that I claim is to have started this process, after many referrals, and to have given impetus to this objective. It is a challenge prepared for a long time and above all it has succeeded not because it has been good the Government; attention to those who try to see and exasperate the limits that exist in this important intervention of innovation. I say this because this success is mainly due to the cooperation between the subjects of the jurisdiction: where the telematic civil process has worked, this is due to the fact that professional orders, top offices and stationery staff have put themselves around a table and have allowed it to finally leave, giving our country an excellence. In fact, the other day with Commissioner Katainen we took note of the fact that in Europe the countries that have produced such an advanced level of computerization are very few, indeed I would say that at this time we are at the forefront of this kind of path. And I believe that this is a conquest for the whole country, not simply because we move from paper to telematics, which would also be an important achievement from the ecological point of view and of the spaces, but because there has been a significant reduction in the times regarding the injunctive decree, and this makes us say that telematization can change overall the modalities of the project. Yesterday, Senator Giarrusso spoke of the fact that with the closure of the judicial offices people move from one side to the other (and then I would like to return to this subject), but the fact that having an electronic door open 24/7 means no longer making queues in front of the chancellor; it escapes the fact that it means being able to use practitioners differently from how they have been used over the years, i.e. mainly to make queues in front of the desks. This is a huge change in our judicial system and I believe that gradually extending it to the other areas of the process is a challenge that must not be considered by the government, but by the country. I hope that all political forces will cooperate on this, because this really cannot be an issue on which we are divided. When we trivialize these results, we do not trivialize those of the Government, but those of all the operators in this sector who gave their souls to be able to start this path on 30 June and who succeeded. It could also be a gigantic flop; the next day it could also stop everything, since it was an experiment that had never been carried out. It wasn't like that; it wasn't my fault, it was all these people who committed themselves. Let's recognize him, that's all. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I do not hide that there are still problems to be faced: Senator Stefani has indicated some of them, including, for example, that of the transmigration of the JEP. However, Senator, it cannot be said that the electronic repository is an engineer's thing, if it has already been done, until yesterday, over 1,300,000. It cannot be said that it is an inaccessible technology: it is a technology that certainly implies a change of professionalism, but I would like to invite you to reflect on the fact that this change of professionalism is also a possibility to give a new space to the new generations working in the lawyering. It's not that everything changes, but, until the civil trial, the element was the network of knowledge and clients of every lawyer. Today there is an extra element of competitiveness, which allows young people, in some way, to be paradoxically ahead of previous generations for greater familiarity with the telematic tool. This change of phase, this possibility of basing competition between professionals on different elements is an implicit opening of the market of professions that, I believe, we must recognize and greet positively. And this recognition also comes from the world of jurisdiction, where the harshest critics of our work are. If I tell you that the day before yesterday we had a table at which were present the National Association of Magistrates, the lawyering associated, the representatives of the staff of chancellery, the whole of the orders that gravitate around the civil process, you realize that the evaluation that I am doing is not self-complacency. Everyone has recognised that this is a challenge that is being won and I think that this is a fact from which we must start. I add two more words on the subject that was improperly called decriminalization. Decriminalisation is another thing, we will discuss it - there is a delegation voted by this Parliament, not by another - and it allows us to define a reasonable perimeter of criminal law. It is not a question of not sanctioning behaviors, but of sanctioning them in a different way, noting that some behaviors, by their size, are better and more promptly sanctioned through administrative intervention. Waiting for the judgment of cassation for a crime that has the connotations of an administrative offense means many times not seeing any kind of judgment or seeing it arrive in such a distant time that, in the end, one no longer understands the actual gravity and relevance of that kind of behavior, both for the deed, and for the society that observes the procedure. However, this is not the case here. We have foreseen something else, namely the possibility of doing what the prosecutors already do. I have not seen anywhere, ladies and gentlemen, protesting or social-bombing against the circulars issued by the prosecutors of the Republic to regulate the procedures for dealing with criminal affairs. This is what the prosecutors of Turin and Rome did some time ago, when they realized that they had many more proceedings than those able to deal with them, they put themselves in a position to say what are the affairs to be dealt with as a matter of priority. What does this mean, though, except that a series of proceedings - I am thinking above all of those of a non-compliance nature - will inevitably be prescribed? What does that mean, if not this? [[Applause from Senator Buemi]] The difference is that a procedure of this kind, however, is not transparent, is not governed by law and gives no possibility of intervention to the victim, who only learns that there has been a prescription. On the other hand, we are giving an instrument through which, in a transparent way, the victim is asked whether she really is convinced to go ahead with the trial and whether it is not better, instead, to ask for compensation of a civil nature. Let us ask the victim this question, asking her to answer it and, in relation to this question, we are going to assess, not already the decriminalization of the crime, but the proposal to a third-party judge of the possibility of filing, which means putting an assessment in the hands of prosecutors, certainly with a minimum of discretion. But let's agree on the prosecutors, once and for all: either it is the Torquemada that we often hear about within this and other classrooms; or they are magistrates who, in some way, have an indiscriminate laxism. I believe that neither is true, but that they will actually assess the tenuity and impact of the behavior that has been taken into account and that, on the basis of this, they will return the assessment to a third judge, not to the Minister of Justice or to those who politically demand that this institution be of use. So much so that I would like to remind you, also in this House, that the National Judicial Association, which for many reasons does not harm criticism of the Government, the other day indicated in this an important instrument of deflation and welcomed it by saying that for a long time the Italian judiciary has called for an instrument that, in some way, ensures that the prosecutors deal first of all with important, serious and serious social issues. Therefore - and I say this also because there has often been confusion - thefts in the apartments cannot be characterized by the tenuity of the fact and by inoffensiveness. And stalking can't be. And that list of crimes that has been circulated has nothing to do with the kind of crimes that may be included in the sphere in which that institute is being used, because many of those crimes are only included for the most edittal, but by their nature they cannot be included in that area. Senator Cirinna mentioned one. How can the victim of the crime be asked to express himself if the victim is an animal? There is some objective difficulty. But how can you think about the occasionality of crimes that have a serial feature, as in the case of stalking? It cannot be an occasional crime which, in some way, consists of a series of events that have occurred. From this point of view, wrong propaganda is taking place for the country, because we should focus on what, in criminal politics, are actually the energies to which we focus our attention. For example, I would like, even with the Senators of the League, to think about how to counter the aggressions to the heritage, which are being escalated. But how do we select them? How do we identify those of greatest social alarm? As we have often been told by lawyers who have certainly had the opportunity to meditate on this issue, starting from Luigi Ferrajoli, the indiscriminate extension of criminal law for propaganda reasons, corresponds to the maximum ineffectiveness of criminal law. It corresponds to a sphere so wide that, in the end, it is unable to realize the actual punitive claim of the State. I owe an answer to Senator Cirinna who put the theme of inmates mothers. It is not yet an issue that we have been able to resolve fully, but if I had attached this point to the Report I would have had to say that the number of inmates who are mothers has fallen by 25% in recent years, because they have passed from 40 last year to 30 this year. This allows us to intervene with the realization of Icam even in a way absolutely at hand. I would like to make a few comments on the instruments to combat economic and mafia crime. There was talk of a government boycott in relation to parliamentary initiatives. I have the utmost respect for parliamentary initiatives and I have also tried to take them into account in the definition of texts which eventually became law (I refer to that on the civil liability of magistrates). I wonder, however, beyond the understandable propaganda, what is the purpose of running and arriving in the other branch of Parliament and then, in order not to remedy contradictions, let you float the measures, as happened. The protective custody law is still there and has continued to do a ping pong. Is it not better to dissolve the contradictions that exist even within the majority, where we had different programs on the subject of justice - is it not a mystery that we reveal this morning - so that the measure can actually reach its goal? I am saying this because I do not consider that I have boycotted the Civil Liability Act. If there had been no government leadership in the parliamentary passage to the House, the House would probably have changed it again and sent it back to the Senate. We have made a choice of composition and we must make the same reasoning with respect to issues that certainly have a great delicacy and serve the need to find a balance. On this I reject a practice that is being used. The fake in the budget did not exist - and I will come in detail soon - or, better, had been deeply emptied, self-recycling did not exist in our system, but the Government and the majority set themselves the objective of increasing the area of indictment by introducing crimes that have a powerful capacity to incriminate. What's the game? It is to say, since there is this extenuating, then you are friends of those who benefit from this extenuating. No, we are against this phenomenon, then we meet certain needs when we intervene. You can't tell a government that introduces self-recycling to be friends with those who autocycle because there's an existing within the norm. The same reasoning applies to the false budget, Senator Cappelletti. It was not in the Grasso bill and if we introduced it it is because we felt that, as it was, the fake in the budget was not able to prevent and counter that kind of phenomenon. Since thresholds have been set - I will explain how - then suddenly we are friends with those who fake it in the budget: if that had been the case, we would have left the rule exactly as it is. Why isn't the norm the way it is? You know that when you say the standard is even copied. You know better than I what it's like to turn a crime of harm into a perilous crime. You know very well - and you know it better than I do - what it means to increase your penis. In this case we are not faced with a demagogic will. Increasing penalties means, first of all, increasing prescription times: we are currently faced with a criminal offence that is prescribed very quickly. Secondly, it means being able to use much more powerful and powerful survey tools; I am referring to interceptions. We did not foresee the thresholds in the summer draft of the text. We have had a consultation in which the social forces have given us the theme of distinguishing between listed and unlisted and of highlighting how some companies - it may be that this is not well resolved in the proposed text and, then, we discuss it - have different tools for drawing up budgets than others. For some, the chances of falling into error and not fully achieving the budget according to the legal requirements are much higher. Do we want to take this into account or not? That's a question I'm asking you. So how did the government not do it? We discuss together how to do this, but it is not acceptable that, if you take this into account, you suddenly become friends with criminals. This I do not accept; it cannot be accepted. It is not a way of discussing that makes us take a step forward in confrontation and dialogue. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] I believe in confrontation and dialogue. For example, some aspects contained in the civil decree - I have no difficulty in recognizing it - are also indicated by proposals of the 5 Star Movement. I do not think I am a genius, but I would be very embarrassed by a monumental stupidity if, although I wanted to keep the budget false, I had proposed an amendment within a text that did not deal with this issue in order to address this issue and leave it exactly as it was. Allow me at least a minimum of intellect, which is useful to avoid a resounding and so stupid type of intervention. I think that now we can reason and I invite you to do one thing: come and listen with me to what Confindustria says, come and listen with me what Confartigianato and CNA say, come and listen with me to the concerns of the enterprises; then we see to what extent to take account of it and to what extent the possibility of contrasting to a course that objectively determines the premise for realizing the supply for corruption is not prejudiced. Why is the transition from the form of crime of harm to the crime of danger revolutionary? Because, while maintaining the current wording, it is necessary to demonstrate the damage that is caused to the company, while the damage lies in the behaviour itself and is brought to the market, to competition, to transparency, to the assumption that it is determined in the corrupting phenomenon. I repeat: let us discuss this together, without caricaturing the positions of others. I believe that Parliament's approach to self-recycling has been significantly underestimated. Here again, I keep the many insults and invectives that the government has received on this subject. Self-recycling didn't exist. We have tried to distinguish between different behaviors, because it is not good criminal law to apply sanctions equal to profoundly different and dangerous behaviors. I would like to stress once again how we underestimate the impact that the introduction of the autocycling crime will have on the system. I keep these invectives, because I am convinced that the first application of this rule will demonstrate what I am saying. First, there is the possibility of overcoming a contempt for our sense of justice. There have been very important trials, which have seen the defendants convicted of corruption or mafia crimes and who then saw the same, once the sentence was taken, get out of prison and go out and enjoy the proceeds of criminal activity. The crime of self-cycling allows us to attack this type of behaviour and conduct on this ground, but above all - we have a fair discussion about the prescription, I believe that this structuring of the crime also takes into account the exceptionality of some phenomena present in our country - makes some conducts essentially inexplicable. In fact, even if pre-conditions are prescribed, the re-utilization and concealment of the proceeds is never prescribed and therefore allows to incriminate, for the consequences of a conduct, long after the stage in which the pre-conditioned crime occurred. This also profoundly changes a phenomenon that has rightly been denounced, that is to see impunity for some types of conduct of great social alarm and of offense to the sense of collective justice. Just as I believe that the introduction of an important instrument is underestimated: confiscation because of disproportion. What is confiscation because of disproportion? It is possible to attack assets that are the result of illicit accumulation even when they have moved far away from those who have accumulated them, even when they have passed from generation to generation, even when they have been inherited from others. It means addressing the issue of who has built a social position through the criminal activity of someone else. Finally, on this point I believe that there is an objective lack of intervention, in all those that the two branches of Parliament are discussing and that, I am convinced, will lead to a significant result, which is the penalty discount (for this announcement right now that I am going to table an amendment to this effect to the House) for those who work in the context of corruption investigations. It is an intervention that is claimed - I think rightly - by those who conduct investigations on this ground, because it is the only one able to break a logic of omerta that often characterizes the corrupting organizations. Here, I invite a calm and serene reflection as far as possible; I invite you to open a phase of dialogue on these issues, in which if you have different opinions you try to find a common meeting point and you do not denounce the stupidity or the bad faith or the dishonesty of the other, because this type of confrontation does not lead anywhere. If you sit at a table and say "do as we say otherwise you are on the side of the crime," this kind of confrontation cannot be developed. I call for us to go beyond this stage, because I really believe that there are the conditions for a common battle of all the political forces present in this House. I thank all the senators who have spoken on the point of the organization. I consider this to be a personal success: this is the first time that the debate on the state of justice has so widely discussed the issues of the organization. I regard it as a result, because in previous years there has been a great deal of shift in attention to substantive and procedural rules. I believe that the organisation is a crucial point in overcoming the challenge of justice reform. In this sense the law of stability contains encouraging signs, which I recall. For the first time, we are back to investing in administrative staff: 50 million was allocated this year, 90 million for next year and 110 million for the following year. It's been 25 years since there was any kind of investment in administrative personnel. Is this money enough? No, and I'll say it first. What's left out? Very. But this year we manage to make mobility from other sectors and to draw suitable from the rankings of competitions for other branches of public administration; which will allow us to put in the justice service 1,200-1,300 people. We know that the discovery is 8,000, but in the last seven years we have seen the discovery grow every year by 1,000 units; this year we manage to determine a reversal of trend. There is one thing missing - and I say this first - because sometimes it is very difficult to intervene on a system that has not been in place for a long time. In fact, until nothing happened, there was a substantial resignation of the system; different is when you determine mobility from other sectors, you do some competition and who has pulled the cart up to that moment wonders why, if the resources are there, you touch nothing to him. It is a legitimate question, to which I am replying here that we could not have waited many months to activate mobility, because we were in danger of having the oldest staff and of being compared to other sections of the public administration. We have activated mobility, but we believe it is essential in the coming months to identify the resources to be able to retrain administrative staff, which also means recognition of what has been done. A word (I say this because I know that the issue is pressing, because it concerns people who have invested a lot in the justice system and have made an important contribution to its functioning) on the so-called precarious system. In fact, let's face it, these are not precarious, but trainees who have not performed functions comparable to those of the staff of the role, similar to what happens in the other branches of the public administration. These people (integrated cash, people on the move) have seen their income integrated through a small sum, but they have not failed to make a contribution that has been very important in recent years. Let us then put some clear stakes (I say this because I have often heard statements, even from Senator Caliendo, which raise this concern). Today we can say: "No, thank you, you go home"? No. Can we call a contest? No. In fact, we can do that, but through the competition we are not sure that these are the people who will enter the roles. We can do two things: in the next competitions take into account the experience gained and try, in the context of the construction of the office of the process, to identify the profiles that are able to give a support to the departure of this structure. These are the two things we can do. We cannot proceed with indiscriminate stabilisation for reasons we know (not only of expenditure, but also linked to the regulatory scaffolding that does not allow us to do so), but we can proceed (we have renewed the internships) to the construction of these exits, in some way. Will they provide access to justice for all? No: I want to say it with great honesty. But they can allow a significant part of these workers to see recognized a role, a function and an activity that has been carried out over these years. Two words about judicial geography. The issue is not just that of saving; the issue is mainly that of specialization. A hospital where the same doctor does appendicitis, open-heart surgery, X-rays and throat care, is not a hospital to which I would recommend to go or to which I would address. Small courts and small prosecutors objectively prevent the possibility of developing a degree of specialisation and this is essential today to assess the merits and to develop the investigations. We are discussing these days whether to set up a national anti-terrorist prosecutor; we are discussing these days whether to implement coordination instruments at national level for the fight against corruption. But what kind of pool can be made in a prosecutor's office where there are five magistrates? CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Nobody wants it. ORLANDO, Minister for Justice. Judicial geography is a qualitative leap, from this point of view. The proximity of justice makes sense if the justice to which I address is able to give me a quality response. Did he always ensure the necessary quality of justice that was administered within the detached sections? The answer is no because - as we know - sometimes in some sections the magistrates were very little because they were decentralized sections, because the numbers were so small that they did not allow that activity of comparison between magistrates that allows to develop the specialization. By the way, I didn't do this reform, senators of the North League. This reform is the implementation of a law of stability that was voted with the Berlusconi Government. But I don't hear myself saying that this is a wrong measure; I consider it a fair measure, because no one can think that a system can be efficient with hundreds or thousands of judicial offices... CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Nobody wants small courts. ORLANDO, Minister for Justice. Not because of the number of seats occupied, which is not negligible, but because of the fragmentation of the supply of justice that is being determined. In this sense, I think we need to make further progress. There are wrong rules that have prevented the removal of certain courts only for reasons of a bell-tower nature. I am referring in particular to the so-called "three-fold rule." In the judicial geography then came to determine "empty spaces" in respect of which it is possible to carry out a reconsideration, a stabilized system, but at the moment when the signal is given unequivocally that we go forward. I am thinking, for example, of the geography of the short appeals. I know it is a subject that explodes reactions of various kinds, but a reflection at least on the coordination of these levels of judgment I think is mature and inescapable. As I have announced, we will keep the general states on the subject of the sense of punishment, and I shall not dwell on the reference to the sense of humanity, which may be irrelevant to some (certainly to none of us in this House), nor on the fact that we have freely signed international conventions that commit us to respect a number of fundamental rights. I start and ask everyone to start with a question: is our penalty execution system efficient? Is the system that has come to be determined through the constant increase in the use of prisons an efficient system? If we compare it with that of other European countries, the answer is: no. We are among the countries that spend the most on prisoners and those with the highest rate of relapse: there is something that does not work. There is no guarantee of safety, nor is there a logic of containment of expenditure. For this reason, I do not think it can be said (as has been said in this House) that when we decide to pass a prisoner from prison to alternative penalties, he is put out of prison. This is an expression that can only be recorded in our country. The difference between us and all other European countries is that others have an efficient system of execution of the external penalty, which manages to balance the functioning of the prison. They are not lax countries; they use different forms of sanction, while we have not yet developed an alternative system of penalties. It is not acceptable that when you switch from prison to alternative penalties you say that you have granted yourself amnesty, because in some cases, especially for short-term detentions, it is much more qualifying and challenging for the reo to wait for a job of public utility, dedicate himself to the community and perform a function that somehow restores the damage done, rather than serving a very short prison sentence, which basically condemns to inactivity and probably also to develop further criminal propensions, if there are. I would like this to be discussed very seriously, because there is too much propaganda going on about it. There was a great controversy over the question of reparations, which were the consequence of the Torregiani judgment. Well, if we had not intervened and had not foreseen compensation, we have calculated that we would have had to pay almost EUR 50 million at the Court of Strasbourg. It is therefore a propaganda that pays mainly to taxpayers, those who are outside, and not so much to the case of Strasbourg, but because we have a system of execution of the penalty that costs about EUR 3 billion. I would like it to be reflected on this: on what propaganda costs, in terms of difficulties in recovering recurrence and, paradoxically, even in terms of the fall of security. Let us face this debate in the light of the sun: this is the sense of the general states on the execution of the penalty that we want to carry out. And let's see what is actually the most effective system for building security and offering a ransom opportunity to the wrong one, being an interest in society that doesn't return to making the mistake. I do not believe that the spirit of the President of the Republic has been betrayed, and I recall that at the last sitting of the plenary session of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, he said that Parliament had finally received the message that had been sent to him. We picked it up all the way, didn't we? No. I think there is still a great deal to be done, especially on the question of the execution of the external penalty, on work in prison and on the question of treatment methods. But I believe that the first step, which is fundamental, is to overcome the conditions of overcrowding (because with overcrowding you do nothing), we solved it; we did so not by "putting people out" but by progressively changing the system of execution of the sentence. I would like to draw attention to the issue of the use of magistrates, although it makes me particularly aware of the fact that political forces have had the opportunity to intervene on this issue and have not done so. On the issue of out-of-role, this Government has implemented the legislation that has most modified the structure of the use of magistrates and other forms of professionalism present in the public administration. I, too, am convinced that the magistrates must first exercise jurisdiction, but I warn everyone that I do not believe that the justice service and the Ministry of Justice could function without the magistrates' contribution. The distinction and independence between the two spheres cannot become separateness. If there is not also the contribution of those who have exercised the jurisdiction to define the modalities of operation of the service, I believe it is impossible to guarantee an effective dialogue between executive power and jurisdiction. I welcome Senator Lumia's invitation to develop an international initiative - it was our concern and our greatest concern - and to register an international initiative on the subject of judicial cooperation and supranational jurisdiction instruments to be built. It is quite clear that phenomena such as mafias or such as those relating to transnational terrorism no longer conflict in the national dimension. Unfortunately, we have a very strong resistance to legal systems; unfortunately, I say this with great respect, even the debate that develops in our country is extremely provincial. During the European Semester we discussed strategies that will directly affect our system, without this having had any kind of feedback in the internal debate in our country. Imagine what the birth of a supranational prosecutor means in the prosecution, not only because of what directly changes from the point of view of order, but because of the model he builds. Imagine how difficult it is to combine such different models: France which has characteristics; Great Britain in which prosecution is carried out by the police; our system which is characterized by the autonomy and independence of the judiciary, including prosecutors. In short, we are faced with a very important passage that takes place above our head. It is important that we pay attention to this passage, otherwise we will find some changes in our home without even having noticed them, while we become aware of issues that will probably be swept away by the transformation of the supranational legal order. On this I believe that it is essential to read the need for the construction of European jurisdiction as a whole in the process of European integration. There is no real Europe if there is no common jurisdiction or, in any case, the embryo of a common jurisdiction. To this path, which is so difficult and complicated, I think we should devote all our attention and effort. I also believe that European parameters should regulate the way in which the sentence is executed and the organisation of justice. In short, there is a border, which often escapes us, which is already changing the things that we are changing today and it is important that this border breaks into our debate and confrontation. I should like to end by thanking you for the debate that has taken place here, and I hope that we will continue to work for a long time. That is why I believe I owe a response above all to Senator Manconi, to whom - if you will allow me - I am bound by a deep friendship and esteem, and who invites me to have more courage. Senator Manconi, I think we had courage. Perhaps we have not made enough statements, contrary to what we are all accused of, because dealing with prison overcrowding in a situation in which public opinion is constantly mobilized by entrepreneurs of fear (the definition is not mine and I do not claim copyright) is not a simple operation. It is not because we are not in the 1970s, a season in which economic expansion also allowed a widespread capacity of public opinion to register a desire to extend rights. We are in a dark season, in which the crisis makes fear grow and there are those who use fear to compress rights. I believe that having managed to deal with such an issue as "counterhand overcrowding" - and it is not my fault, but Parliament's - is already an achievement, an important port. We can do more, of course, we can do much more. There is one thing in your criticism, Senator Manconi, that I honestly believe is unfair: that our attention has turned exclusively to changes of normative and procedural nature. I consider that to be an unfair criticism. It is true, in fact, that what we are talking about is the changes we are proposing on the procedural and substantive front, but this is not the aspect to which we have devoted the greatest attention. We have dealt mainly with organization, photocopies, computers, personnel, because it is useless to discuss the timing of the prescription if then the processes are prescribed because there is no one who carries out the administrative functions necessary to instruct the process. It is useless to continue to discuss the execution of the sentence in compliance, if we do not have the staff necessary to ensure the treatment, if there are no educators, psychologists. [[Applause from Senator Buemi]] We do not talk about all this, because it is easier to talk about one year in more or one year less than the penalty provided for in the proposal put forward, while the circular issued by the Ministry to try to straighten out a particular situation that has come to be determined does not make an article in the newspaper, do not discuss the political forces. Instead, I believe that the reform of justice also goes through the practices that can be introduced. [[Applause from the PD Group]] From this point of view we did an X-ray of the system that is not pitiful. In the civil sector, we have carried out a characterisation, a comprehensive survey of the situation regarding the state of the offices that had never been done. We have carried out an analysis of the prisons, which we will now implement, because it is useless to say that on one occasion or another the rights are not respected, we need to see how, when and why: we need to understand where the men and women have made an important effort to innovate the system and where nothing has been done. Statistics and undifferentiated analysis are the real enemies of reforms, because they prevent us from understanding exactly where the plague is determined and where action is to be taken. The numbers we often record are in fact the average between very different situations. I personally claim this job. Certainly more can be done. However, ten months have passed since this Government was established, but for twenty-five years there has been no intervention on the organizational structure of justice and I believe that on this point it is necessary to reflect adequately. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Buemi and Susta]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u10	Mr Orlando, thank you for your copious reply, but I would also like you to express your views on the resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u11	ORLANDO, Minister for Justice. Mr President, I am against all the motions for resolutions, with the exception of No 1, tabled by Senator Zanda and other Senators, and No 3 tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Minister. What motions for resolutions do you support? ORLANDO, Minister for Justice. Motions for resolutions No 1, tabled by Senator Zanda and other senators, and No 3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. I am against the motion for a resolution No 2, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators, on the understanding that the Government will take full account of all the indications contained in it concerning the recovery of the efficiency of the system. Similarly, the motion for a resolution No. 4 proposed by the 5 Star Movement, on which there are indications that the Government intends to gather, both in relation to the fight against corruption and on the subject of judicial organisation, but overall, also for the premises, is not a resolution that we feel we share. As I said, I welcome the other two proposals.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u12	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u15	Colleagues, we have been given notice of an important meeting of the Group which will take place at 12 noon, so I hope that there will be a self-content of the times, so that we can conclude the work for that time, but because of this matter, I fear that my hopes will be in vain. Sunta (SPI). Mr President, I have given up speaking in general debate, so I reserve the minutes I have available to give some consideration to the substance of this explanation of vote. I greatly appreciated the cutting of the Minister's Report and also his passionate reply. For the first time for many years we have seen a very general, but at the same time particularly in-depth, reflection on the state of justice and I believe that we must recognize, even with all the difficulties that the time we are experiencing is coming to us, that the government's action in recent months has been effective and has also responded to the appeals of the Head of State and to the demands coming from Europe. I want to acknowledge here to Minister Orlando that I have demonstrated the superiority of politics, when it is "Politics" in the exercise of government action, when we are not limited only to a whole, to a sum of technicalisms, but are trying to go to the root of the problem, facing it in its complexity. We really know that justice can no longer be - I quote his words - the symbol of an ordeal to keep as far away as possible and not even a permanent area of political confrontation. We must ask ourselves how much, in these twenty years, the failure to solve the problems of justice has been an obstacle on the path of growth, not only from the economic point of view, but also from the civil point of view, of this country. It was rightly recalled yesterday by someone who has just spent the anniversary anniversary of Caesar Beccaria. I remember that this year will be the 40th anniversary of the entry into force of the Gozzini law. I believe that we must start from there also with respect to the analyses made by the Government in order to improve our criminal system and the execution of the sentence in the direction desired by the Government. In the meantime, what has produced the action of these months and these years must be noted positively. We have listened to the numbers that have been given: to have reduced, almost to the limit of our capacity, the prison population, decreasing it by 10,000 people, making the best use of the measures of alternative penalties, I believe it was a demonstration of the efficiency of the organizational machine and, at the same time, the civil response of adapting our structures to what happens in other European countries. Of course, we will have to step up our interest and our commitment in this direction. We can no longer fail to ask ourselves, as the Minister has said, how can we still consider, if not for the most serious offenses, detention in prison as the preferred measure compared to other forms of sanction that really come closer to the re-education, reintegration and return to civil society of a person who can be considered worthy of this name. Even the most technical aspects have helped, at this juncture, the rapprochement between the citizen and the institution. We haven't seen all the effects yet. Let us consider the operators of the law, let us see the system of companies who are careful to assess positively the innovations we have introduced - from negotiation assisted to the intensification of mediation, the use of arbitration and parallel forms of justice - but within a public vision of the issue of justice, without talking about the privatisation of justice, which helps the system to give efficient answers. I believe that everything that has happened over the last three years in terms of the reorganization of the service, of judicial geography and of rules that allow better mobility of staff from one branch of public administration to another is extremely positive. In short, we have seen an action, that of the Ministry of Justice of this last year, of healthy pragmatism but guided by a vision and a fidelity to the civil values, to the Community values at European level and to the constitutional values that are within the best patrimony of the juridical, political, moral and civil civil civilization of this country. I think this should be remembered. All this has been done by a government that has entrusted a politician with the Ministry of Justice and I believe this is extremely significant. I believe that we must continue on this path, in further improving the use of alternative measures of punishment, in an even better reorganization of judicial geography, by carefully verifying the benefits resulting from it, and by further carrying out the so-called Strasbourg project. In conclusion, by declaring our vote in favour of the motion for a majority resolution which has been signed on behalf of my Group and on which the Government has expressed a favourable opinion, let me remind you, Minister, that after the brilliant action that the Government has taken with great willingness to dialogue with everyone and with the patience to sit hours and hours in the parliamentary committees to dialogue with the parliamentarians (which is not by everyone and which we do not see in all the representatives of the Government), there are some issues that will still have to be carefully assessed in the coming years, outside the political confrontation. Firstly, there is a need for further procedural and criminal action in order to ensure greater equalisation between defence and prosecution. Secondly, I would like to mention the question of, if not separation, at least distinction of careers. Thirdly, the great issue of the mandatory prosecution because the inclusion in the role, the decision to proceed in some investigations rather than in others cannot be left to individual prosecutors out of objective criteria, but we cannot hypocritically hide that they imply a greater consideration of the mandatory prosecution. We must also understand, and this is a cultural issue that we must bring into this country's debate, if the time for overcoming the distinction between civil justice and administrative justice is not ripe. There must be only one judge of the protection of rights vis-à-vis citizens. Hierarchies between the State and other subjects can no longer be created in the recognition of judges and in the identification of the natural judge. Allow me to make one last consideration, also because in administrative justice too many are still the overlaps between the judicial function and the consultative function towards the Government and therefore the limitations of the nature of third-partyness that even a judge must have, a last consideration that does not strictly concern the Ministry of Justice, but perhaps the Ministry of Economy and Finance. We cannot forget, however, that tax justice is justice, being characterized by a strong relationship between the State and the citizen, and cannot be left to improvisation or to a system that still suffers from the overlapping of the state that comes before the citizens, when instead it comes after the recognition of the fundamental rights of the person. In that branch of law, which in any case is very closely concerned with the protection of the fundamental rights of the citizen, we still do not have a position of equality between the citizen and the State. And I believe that a reflection on the profound reinterpretation of the relationship between the citizen and the state will have to accompany us in the coming years, first on a cultural level and then also on a regulatory level. However, I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive and comprehensive report and to announce the SCPI Group's vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 1. ( [[Applause from Senators Ichino and Tonini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u18	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I am going to hand over to the Presidency the part of my speech that I will not be able to do. Minister, of course synthesis is not one of your virtues. If for a replica of the debate that took place in the Senate it took an hour, being I a doctor, I can think of an aphorism (which synthesizes much the reasoning) of that surgeon who, coming out of the operating room, says that the surgery succeeded, but the patient died. Yes, because, dear colleague Susta, if justice is perceived as it is by the Italians, that is, as a synonym of Calvary; if our companies continue to horas to flee, not to the East but to Switzerland, to delocalize the peculiarities that have always distinguished the richness of our manufacturing culture, of our brains; if they continue to leave because here they do not find an answer precisely on the planet justice, which they see as the enemy, means that in these ten months we have done nothing. We, Minister, are a highly reformist and democratic group in the true sense of the word: we have, in fact, left our members free to evaluate your speech and I can tell you that a third will vote in favour and two thirds, including myself, will vote against it. You say the National Judicial Association agrees, but have you ever seen the capons party at Christmas? It is obvious that they do their interests and their interests are caste, and they are not those of the Italians, who are others. You tell us - and we agree - that we must have European justice. I say, perhaps, because there is no MSM in European justice. In European justice, when the judge is wrong, he really pays, and not as in Italy, where it happened only four times in twenty-seven years. In European justice, Minister, there is no obligation to prosecute. Do you know what Aldo Moro said to his students, to the university, in the '70s? He said that in the Constitution it was necessary to review the mandatory prosecution, which has been removed from all the countries of the European Union and has remained only in Italy. To complain and complain about the staff, in this moment of crisis, they are all: from the school planet, where we complain about the sub-staff, the universities, hospitals and public administrations. And this also applies to the planet justice. Why was work done with the 1970 staff - the current one, be careful, it is 20 percent higher - and justice was perceived as such, while now we are not working and there is a feeling of negativity? Because now the judges do something else, they're committed to political career. In the Ministry of Justice today there is an unprecedented plethora and congestion of magistrates. It is obvious that in the Ministry of Justice, the magistrates make the laws that they do, and I certainly do not promote justice. That is why I believe, Minister, that there is a need for a genuine reform of civil, criminal and administrative justice, which will enable the Italian people and Italian companies to be equal to those of other European countries. So it is not just a question of preventing the flight of capital - what capital does it want them to escape, since there are no more capital? - because there is nothing left: at this moment we export only our peculiarity, our DNA, and we take it away. The consequence is that we have unemployment and poverty, with our young people who, at the end of the training course, not finding work, go to London, New York or Spain, where reforms have really been made. As I said yesterday, unemployment in London is zero, because there have been enlightened and capable statesmen like Tony Blair or Margaret Thatcher, to name one left and the other right: we here, instead, have condemned and expelled them. I remember the media-judicial coup which took place in 1992 and which was repeated in 1994 and 2011: a Commission of Inquiry will have to say why the magistrates have made active policy and wanted to subvert democracy in Italy. I would also like to mention, Minister, the tragedy of the indiscriminate use of the institution of protective custody, which was also raised by President Napolitano, who does not mention finding an immediate solution. It is only an Italian case: only in Italy a third of the prisoners are awaiting trial, which all too often involves the occurrence of unjust detentions, with the related social damages that this determines, to which are added also those of an economic nature, since then it is the pants state - and therefore the citizens - that must compensate those who are subjected to preventive imprisonment without the process beginning. This, which goes beyond all other episodes of unjust detention, does not exist in any other democratic country and takes place in a framework further aggravated, on the one hand, by the civil irresponsibility of the judges and, on the other, by their protagonism, which often helps to give an image not really third and impartial, such as that of the magistrates should be. That's why I said that therapy ex adiuvantibus doesn't work. The fact that justice in Italy is not there is what Italians perceive, even in the face of the flight of our entrepreneurs to abroad and, above all, the pathological density of preventive imprisonment. You want to tell us, Minister, what is the use of the judge's office at the preliminary hearing - and I address, in particular, Senator Caliendo, also for his previous experience at the Ministry of Justice - if 95 percent is a paperweight? Why do the judges of the preliminary hearing not enter into the matter and, when they decide to refer it to trial, do not justify it? Because they're lame, they don't want to write and engage, because that's a lot easier. That is why we are talking about 5-10 million, because they do not do their duty. The cards, however, have to read them, while they don't want to. Instead, they have to intervene on failures, because then they call the bankrupt curator, who is a friend of theirs or a friend of their friend: that's where the real mafia is. But do you realize that, by listening to the justiceists - I see some of them here, which I do not want to mention in order not to advertise them - in the Commission we are only able to increase the penalties? Until now in two years we have lifted our pains on everything. Even so, there are magistrates like Cantone, who obviously respect, and Violante who say that lifting the pain is of no use, because prevention is done in another way, and not by increasing the doses of therapy, which lead to the death of the patient. Prevention is done by giving the right therapeutic adjustments from a legislative point of view that prevent the penalty. And that's the point. We don't have to increase the dose, because that's how justice dies. On the contrary, it is already dead because, Minister - as I have already said - the fundamental question, if it is not resolved that there can be no justice and we cannot enter Europe, is to solve the problem of political justice that many judges practice. Many judges are honest and correct, fortunately, and they are about 80-90 percent, but there is a 10-20 percent exercising justice promo his own and not pro domo iustitiae. Mr President, I would ask for permission to give the Presidency an addition to my speech so that it can be annexed to today's report. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u19	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u22	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his very thorough reply, trying to address all the issues that have been raised. So let us welcome this system, which was already inaugurated in August last year, of a continuous dialogue with the opposition forces as well. We certainly do not have to do populism and demagogy on justice, because it is a very important and very serious issue on which we must confront ourselves and try to find serious solutions. Evaluation and review of the state of justice are also important. And one cannot fail to share the analysis made by the Minister. The problems and difficulties of justice are known to all and the Minister has exemplified and stigmatized them. What is absolutely unsatisfying to us is the system of solutions that has been prepared to date. As far as the problem of backwardness is concerned, we have also discussed this in general discussion. It is a shameful problem, which places Italy almost at the level of third world countries. When we talk about an assessment of the demand for justice, however, this question is likely to be affected by a social change on the system itself. Decades and decades ago, many problems were solved by the country's surveyor, if not even by the pastor of the country or even, extrajudicially, by personalities who had a certain importance and a certain weight. Following a change in the system of institutions and, more than anything else, in the perception of the citizen of the institutions, we find ourselves today having to resort to justice almost at all times, without thinking that, probably, there might be other solutions. The client will go to the lawyer with a position and, in the end, will choose what supports his motivation and will not trust what is told by the lawyer who claims that he will lose the case. It is true, therefore, that the system has changed but, beyond this position, we must also think about what the solutions can be. As far as the civil sector is concerned, for example, solutions do not come through an increase in the cost of justice. The increase in the amount of the unified contribution and the cost of notifications are weighing on the citizens, because we are not talking about the costs that go to the lawyers or the magistrates. Let us remember that an inefficient system of justice certainly does not facilitate those who have money, but it certainly weighs on the citizen who often does not have the resources. It is a system that must make an elitist selection, between those who can appeal to justice and those who cannot resort to it. Let us also remember that the system of inefficiency does not facilitate those who are right to make a case, but those who are wrong; those who find a benefit in the long process; those who owe money and know that, in the end, they will pay perhaps after ten or twelve years, perhaps when the situation has reached a level of incapience. We therefore call for effective reform of the civil sector through a change in the procedural system which accelerates the process. On this we expect a serious proposal, as had been anticipated, and we want to see it now, lying black and white, and discuss it in the Commission. This is about the civil aspect. As far as the criminal aspect is concerned, it has certainly been polluted in the last two years that we are here by the problem of the incapience of penitentiary institutions and the overcrowding of prisons. We tried to solve the problem of the Torreggiani judgment with measures that - we of the Group of the North League continue to reiterate - are penalising. They may have solved, perhaps temporarily, the problem of overcrowding prisons, but they will have consequences that they will feel over time. We, in particular, must remember all the measures we have called empty prisons and others, until we reach the last hypothesis, contained in the legislative decree, which provides for the introduction of non-criminality for crimes of particular tenuity. This is also serious, especially if one keeps in mind - I am talking about not really recent data - that in 2012 and in the first half of 2013, in cities like Bologna and Milan, there was an increase in predatory crimes of almost 30 percent. We believe, therefore, that all these measures, which we call essentially of clemency, and which recognize of the benefits (see the early release, for example, or the increase of the application of the institution of house arrests), do not have such a deflagrant effect also on the system of prison overcrowding, but rather an increased effect of criminal phenomena. That's the problem. That what is said in this House, when we speak directly to a police officer, we hear that the same criminals who are being stopped are quiet, because they know that they do not go to jail, that the consequences will not be so serious, and that foreigners are also aware of this. In this way it creates almost an attractive effect of Italy for these criminal hypotheses, especially for predatory crimes. In fact, foreigners, while they know to pay for the consequences in the country of origin, in Italy have very different solutions. So let us pay attention to these measures which we have already taken or which you have already taken. Now let's think about how to set up a system for the future. Through these empty prisons, attempts have been made to overcome the problem of overcrowding. The usual situation continues to exist in Italy: to make legislation on emerging situations. On the other hand, it is now - we trust in the seriousness and competence of the Minister - that this system will be put in place. We can no longer intervene on emerging situations; we must make structural reform systems, systems that do not affect only individual commercial topics, systems with which we know where we want to go and how to incardinate, acting systematically and trying to avoid Italian problems. That is a bit of what happened with the revision of the judicial districts. Minister, you are right to say that that reform itself did not have a negative content. It was right to find time to analyze judicial districts and build truly efficient courts, where to acquire - as he said - a specialization. It is important for the magistrate to be competent in that matter. But then, on the way, when the problem began to be analyzed, the problems emerged. It is true that the delegation law was passed during the Berlusconi Government, but with the legislative decrees of Minister Severino, in the end a completely confused system was implemented. And the confusion reverberated and continued for quite a while, leaving in uncertainty the same presidents of the courts, who did not know whether or not to make this transfer. That is the difficulty. We have tabled a motion for a resolution here, in which we have highlighted a number of points. I would therefore ask the Minister to reconsider his opinion on our motion for a resolution, in view of a number of points which he had already mentioned that could possibly be accepted. I therefore call for a separate vote to be taken on the motion for a resolution of the North League, signed by all of us in the Group, with particular regard to amendments to the law on the civil liability of magistrates, in order to ensure that there is indeed a possibility of compensation for citizens in case of error. Let's continue with the telematic process, but not with Italian mode, but with an effective one and with a system that works. I'm not saying that the telematic process is wrong, but it has to work. We are also calling for the extraordinary penitentiary plan and the security of the 38 existing structures, which can be used as institutions of punishment, and the implementation of bilateral agreements - from this point of view I hope that the Minister will be able to review his assessment, as already anticipated - or the conclusion of new bilateral agreements with other States, so that foreign prisoners may pay off their sentences in the countries of origin. I therefore call on and ask for the possibility of holding a separate vote on motion for a resolution No 2, signed by all the Senators of the Group of the North Legacy, considering these issues to be absolutely acceptable. With regard to the Minister's Report, we anticipate and announce the North League Group's vote against. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u25	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, Minister, I am voting in favour of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the report and on the overall thrust of its considerations. I have already recognised, in general discussion, the effort that the Ministry and you in particular are making towards effective reform of our judicial system. Of course, computerization, the telematic process and the telematic desks are a revolutionary fact for our judicial system, and we must be aware of this. We are convinced that there will not only be an improvement in the times, but will also change the culture of our judicial system. This is an important factor of modernisation, which leads to the ageing of the system. In recognizing these merits, I would like to draw your attention, Minister, to certain issues which, in my opinion, remain unresolved. I start from the prescription, which is one of the elements connected between the efficiency of the system and the result of the criminal process. As I said in my speech, the problem of prescription must not be solved by increasing the time of the process. We must keep a reasonable time for the prescription, but we must substantially reduce the time taken for the process, firstly by increasing the number of staff, as you said, Minister. The trials certainly stand on the magistrates, but they are also very much on the administrative ones, which play an indispensable role. We must also proceed with the strengthening of logistics, but I will come back later on the issues of judicial geography. We must then - and this is an effort that Parliament must also make - reduce the area of litigation and appeals with good laws, that is, with clearer laws that leave less discretion to those who have to comply with them, then have them enforced and judged according to those laws. The judicial organization is, therefore, a fundamental moment of a result, and for this reason, Minister, I reiterate the need for your particular attention to be paid to the reform of judicial geography, which has certainly been an important step. The direction of the march has changed, but it must not be at all reversed and requires a development of situations that maintain strong criticalities also in the context of recognizing to the territories the necessary equality of treatment that, to all Italian citizens, must be guaranteed. From this point of view, Minister, we are still awaiting the data relating to the year of the reform, i.e. the amalgamations between the various courts. We need this data because, from the news we have, there are disturbing situations in some realities. I only mention a few based on data from the Ministry. The amalgamation of the court of Camerino and others to the court of Macerata has precipitated the latter among the last Italian courts (they are data of the Ministry), in particular regarding the civil trial. I then have data concerning the court of Castrovillari, which merged the court of Rossano: in this year 1,800 files from the territory of Castrovillari and 4,200 files, as far as the civilian, from the territory of Rossano. Clearly, there has been a mistake that needs to be corrected. You can't combine a court two or almost three times bigger into a smaller court; you don't understand the reason for that. In the field of labour law, the same court records a ratio of eight to two (area of Castrovillari two and area of Rossano eight). These are all questions that arise in other situations: I quote Sala Consilina-Lagonegro, but I am not long because the situation is known; not to mention the Ivrea court, to which a certain part of the Turin court (the former branch of Chivasso) has been merged, which has flooded it, making it practically unattainable. We must call the territories, in the face of the need for rationalization and containment of expenditure, to contribute in making the justice service available to the territories themselves. You see, Minister, for those who are rich, justice is never far away; but for those who are poor, when the court is 50 kilometers away, it means that lawyers and all the procedural activity fall on those who are unable to support the economic element. I therefore believe that we must not have a court under every bell tower - you rightly said that we do not need a hospital that is not able to give the high quality performance that is necessary - and, at the same time, we must reason with regard to the courts themselves. I come to some questions. The civil liability of the magistrates we hope to arrive quickly in port. It is a positive fact that the House's Justice Commission has not modified the Senate text. I therefore hope that, in February, we will be able to revise a rule which, in its twenty-four years of existence, has demonstrated its unworkability. This is a positive result, which must be accompanied by a consideration, indeed by the fact that decisions have been taken as a result of your consideration of the mandatory nature of prosecution. You rightly say that it is necessary to select, because the total amount of work that is taking place on the courts effectively prevents the prosecutors from exercising in a timely manner what is a constitutional obligation, that is, the obligation to prosecute. I believe that a circular is not enough then - as you rightly said - but neither is there a substantial legal differentiation of what are the most important crimes from the least important ones. We must have the courage to let politics, in the face of emergencies, indicate what the priorities are. In this sense, I do not think it is necessary to think about the abolition of the obligation to prosecute, but about its regulation at the legislative level, as I believe we need to think about the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Minister, we cannot continue to attend the theatre of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. The logic of corporate protection must be overcome, because the fundamental protection is certainly the autonomy of the magistrates, but also the guarantee that the magistrates are judged according to the actual responsibilities, and not the relationships of force that exist within the CSM. These are the most important considerations that I wanted to draw to your attention and I am convinced that you, as you have done in the past, will be attentive to these aspects and will try to address them through a dialectic between the Government and Parliament. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u28	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the Minister who, in his reply, highlighted a number of aspects which are undoubtedly pressing and which perhaps escaped from the report. I believe, in fact, that on a subject such as justice, just as it should happen on other issues such as education, the best way is the one that sees away any form of controversy and media exploitation of these aspects, which are undoubtedly fundamental to the health of a country. In general - as Senator Manconi has also said - it takes more decision and courage because the challenge is to give the country an efficient system. This is, of course, welcome. We welcome the fact that resources are invested in the organisation of justice, because it is clear that only ideas are not sufficient, but they also need to be implemented, and that is what we have asked for in the resolution that we have tabled. But above all we must have confidence in the fact that there is legality, that in this country it is a value, and we as Parliament, and the Government for its part with all the administrative structure, we must be able to give answers and to confirm that, in this country, there really is a concept of isonomy. 11:18 a.m. (Mussini followed). That is why we have asked that we pass laws such as the one we have approved on the return of capital, that is, those that can give citizens the impression that there is some kind of tolerance towards those who commit a certain type of crime, where there is also the economic need to recover taxes that have not been properly paid. Surely the merits that the Minister mentioned, the merits in the implementation of the telematic civil process, there are and are certainly linked to all those who, on the territory, spend themselves to make computerization work and who believe in the possibility of making justice more efficient, with more modern tools. But it is also true that there is too little care in the spread capillary. And then, in view of these merits, we ask that, in economic planning and training, account be taken of the need to form in a widespread way because, unfortunately, our country is made of very fragmented realities and also geographically very different for many reasons, for reasons of physical and historical geography. We believe that a truly efficient organizational reform cannot ignore adequate investments to allow this to reach the entire administration, in any area of our country. With regard to the relationship between Parliament's legislative power and the Government's interventions, in a very technical Commission that has to deal with discussions on extremely sensitive aspects that have very ramified effects in the legislation, the presence of the Government has always been appreciated and its contribution has always brought useful insights. However, there should be greater clarity in the report: it is true that self-recycling has been included, but it is also true that we had a package for it that we were discussing. Now, with regard to this and to other issues, the Government feels called upon to cut the Gordian nodes, in the fear that the parliamentary debate will not be able to bring to completion a mediation between all political forces, which will then allow to reach a vote. What we are asking, then, is that the Government, which nevertheless has a great deal of weight in the work of the Commission, should be able to cooperate, because it expresses a favourable or contrary opinion on the amendments and takes positions on the work, so that, after the in-depth analysis, which is due to be carried out, all this matter can have a rapid path. I am referring to a lot of matters that we are still debating, which is important and which, while not affecting the aspects of the territorial organisation of justice, concerns the recognition of rights and others, such as short divorces. It is true, in fact, that a small part of the majority is weighing a specific position in the work we are doing. Let us move forward, then, with a democratic debate, but let us move forward and give ourselves the necessary answers. The fact that the Report does not give back the real picture, offset by the precise answers given by the Minister, leads us to reflect on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Democratic Party. If we talk about this, it must be said that - as it is correct for the Minister to present his report - it is also correct that a resolution contains something more than mere approval, namely the contribution that Parliament has to make, which the Minister himself requests. We shall therefore abstain on a resolution which simply refers to the expression: 'yes' to 'yes' to 'yes' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' to 'no' On the other hand, we believe that it is much more important to deal with all the other passages in substance and voting, which are legitimate demands and which, all in all, meet the aspects highlighted by the Minister and accepted by him in his reply. There are important appointments. As the Minister recalled, in other European countries the external execution of the sentence is certainly much more efficient, and this is because there has been an investment and there is a trained staff, a territorial government involved and involved at the level of all the administrations with which the administration of justice is called to collaborate. I am referring to hospitals in territorial health services, as regards psychiatric hospitals, or territorial institutions, as regards the work of prisoners, depending on how Region by Region is regulated. We hope that, in the implementation of the external execution of the sentence, we will take real care to follow the different paths, so that we can guarantee to the citizens, and to those who have the possibility to choose these alternative penalties, a real integration. We're ready to do our part. We hope that any matter that is still under discussion will have a rapid path and that care and attention will always be taken to maintain a cooperative relationship, because Parliament must legislate and have the opportunity to do so to the full. We also allow ourselves to invite the Government to consider it not always necessary to act by cutting this gordian knot. Perhaps we can allow ourselves to return to the political debate and democratic debate that strong value in which we believe and to think that from this Senate and from the House can be dismissed laws that, even if they do not fully satisfy everyone, can nevertheless represent the fruit of the democratic confrontation of all the forces represented here. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senators Bignami, Romans, Bencini and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u29	We greet the students of the Liceo Scientifico (scientific high school) Gaetano Salvemini in Sorrento, who are today visiting the Senate. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u32	D'ASCOLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, Minister, I shall be voting in favour of your report by the Group which I honour to represent, the People's Area, for its rich and complex content, as well as those of this morning's reply, but also for the clarity with which you have set out extremely demanding issues and which allow us to understand the guidelines for a plan for reforming the criminal system. I also share the clarification that you were forced to make in the course of this morning's reply when you had to inform the House, albeit superfluously (but clarity is never too sufficient), with reference to the problem of decriminalization, of the fact that decriminalizing does not mean eliminating from the punitive system an unlawful fact, but rather transferring it from criminal law to that area of punitive administrative law in which the hierarchy relationship between the illicits placed it in a virtue of a modification of the hierarchy of the relevant. In fact, you have shown - but the thing was known to those who had followed the work of your Ministry - that we are living in a moment of serious transition and transformation of the criminal system to which I refer here in particular. We have an excess of crimes that we suffer from and, moreover, the length of the trials and the enormity of the pending cargo are justified by the quantity of the load of crimes that exists in our system. But the excessive amount of crime also finds its justification in the emergence of interests that were previously considered irrelevant or not relevant, while today they are considered prominent, thus stimulating the formation of complex legislative texts. Just to make a reference, but I do so only in an exemplifying way because I could mention other areas of criminal law, it would be enough to think about the criminal law of the environment, which obviously the legislator of 1930 had not thought about, that is, this heavy commitment that awaits us with reference to the internal importance also of events of international terrorism. However, if criminal law grows quantitatively, we will also have to think of a modification of existing criminal law, otherwise Parliament would pre-constitute, with a work that would certainly have to be condemned, the reasons for the creation of a new prison emergency. We have just eliminated an emergency that had disfigured our country internationally, but if we do not think of moving the less serious forms of crime in the administrative punitive illegality, thus giving concreteness and finally - if I am allowed this adverb - implementation of a law dating back but fundamental, called "Modifications to the criminal system" (Law No. 689 of 1981), we will find ourselves with a criminal law quantitatively ungovernable. There is therefore a need to continue to regard criminal law as an extrema ratio and above all, in the formulation of criminal rules, to take into account that criminal law is fragmented. The fragmentation means the capacity of the norm - and unfortunately, even before that, the ability of those who think and write the norm - to choose among the many conducts that could include those really endowed with a disvalue such as to require the penal punitive intervention, and not as opposed to writing rules that put together an infinite and indeterminate quantity of facts placing them all on the same level and for all claiming the same sanctioning intervention. This is because - and you have said this - I can only confirm that the Group on whose behalf I speak thinks the same way - we have a criminal system characterized, among other things, by a poverty of the sanctions arsenal. We have begun to do so with an extremely important delegation, Law No 67 of 2014, but it is necessary to understand - and a part of his reply has been dedicated to the subject - that the punitive solution, even if under criminal law, does not necessarily have to be prison. We can have non-convict criminal sanctions and therefore such as to determine a gradual penalty that avoids those prison paths that, especially with regard to short prison sentences, are highly criminal. In some cases, in fact, not only is the detention penalty disproportionate to the gravity of the matter, but it even increases the possibility of further crimes, triggering a criminal circuit determined by periods of imprisonment so short that it does not allow anything positive on the side of re-educational teleologism of the sentence and, even worse, involving in criminal circuits subjects who might be able to live a life all together regular if not confined. Hence, the importance of strengthening an alternative arsenal of sanctions compared to the only solutions designed in the 1930s, a time when our code was written and then promulgated (1931), when the solution was essentially unique: the prison sentence. In this direction there is also to be observed, because in this case it is traced the physiognomy of a future penal system, that after a few years will be necessary a new penal code, especially for the special part, since the general one, delivered substantially in the 1930s, basically holds. On the special part of the code - which reflects more the change in relations within society, the prevalence, no longer negligible, of certain legal goods over others, that is, the succumbence of some than others - is inevitably required a reflection. I recall that there was a Commission for the reform of the penal code, of which I was a member, which not only had rethinked the special part, but had even written it. 11:33 a.m. (Followed by Ascola). There is another problem which I would like to mention briefly in this context, which concerns not only the nature of the penalties in the sanctioning system, but also the way in which prison sentences inevitably end up being applied by the courts by virtue of a legislative system which obliges them to operate in the direction dictated by the legislator. Minister, the reform of criminal law, dated September 1944 and put in place with decrees-legislatures, in a certain sense indicated to the democratic legislator at the time the new directives: it was basically a question of greeting the birth of the Italian Republic with a criminalistic reform that briefly took into account the change of pace with respect to the fascist regime. This reform, with two articles, clearly outlined the guidelines that the legislator of the democratic state, in the period immediately after the Second World War, should have followed. For a verse general mitigating circumstances were introduced, meaning that the penalties had to be reduced even in the minimum and that, therefore, the discretion of the judge to fall below the edittal limits should not be prevented by legislative decisions that even bound the judge on the level of discretionary measures but of favorable sign. Then the criminal of the reaction to the arbitrary acts of the public officer was introduced, meaning that the authoritarian state had ceased. [[Call the president back.]] I will finish now, Mr President. With reference to the first part of this reform of 1944, today we must see too high penalties, therefore not correctable, a balancing judgment between heterogeneous circumstances that sometimes does not allow the judgment of prevalence of mitigating circumstances, a regime of recurrence that must be modified and a limitation of general mitigating circumstances; all things that a reform now forgotten, that of 1974, wanted by two great masters of criminal law, Giuliano Vassalli and Marcello Gallo, had on the contrary avoided. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u35	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, if you will allow me, I would wait for the time needed for the Minister to finish his telephone conversation, saving my time (I imagine it is a few seconds). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. A phone call, as was said, lengthens your life, but also the session, sometimes. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Without any controversy, Minister, I was asking for your full attention. A few light and many shadows, and above all long: this is our analysis of your report, Minister, as well as the reply. Obviously this should not surprise us so much, given our point of view, of force of opposition, however, I believe that you will want to acknowledge that, in the parliamentary work and on the occasions on which it has been possible to deal (I am also referring to the meetings that our delegations, like those of other groups, have had the opportunity to carry out in via Arenula with you), there has always been a very clear debate, an exchange, a proposition on the various topics that also affected parliamentary activity. I was saying, few lights and, for intellectual honesty, I want to recall some passages that we liked, on which we agree a positive assessment (I antepono the sugar to the pill). We appreciated the reduction of the Directors-General of the Ministry and certainly shared the last provision on the civil process and the establishment of the legal interest rate linked to the most punitive, in the case of late payments. The telematic civil process, albeit with some technical hiccups, that here and there in Italy signal us from offices, is certainly a field of action in which also this Ministry, like the previous ones, is engaged and can only have positive effects. The announcement of the 1,200 recruitments of personnel in the field of justice, through the mobility of the sectors of public administration, is also one of the measures that we, as the 5 Star Movement, indicated as necessary, namely the strengthening of the staff who, as we know, are historically lacking. We also appreciated what you have told us about the agreement with the Kingdom of Morocco on the discipline of Moroccan prisoners in Italy, so that extradition and delivery operations to the foreign country can be easier, so as to reduce the pressure in our prisons. These and perhaps few others are the small positive spots, which, however, fail to illuminate the more general picture, which from our point of view remains absolutely negative, of the government's action in the field of justice. We could join the chorus of satisfaction for the decrease in civil litigation, from 5.2 million to 4.9 million pending cases, but in reality we do not do so because we know, as well as someone before me has reminded us, that the decrease in the burden of civil gradients is clearly due to the precise political action of this Government - but in truth also those who preceded it - to discourage the protection of rights by citizens through the increase of the costs of access to justice (unified contribution), through what we have called judicial desertification, that is, the disappearance of the points of garrison of justice of the courts, both civil and criminal, and of prosecutors in the national territory, as well as by the depotence of the institution of legal aid at the expense of the State, which should serve to protect the less well-off citizens. Therefore we find no reason for satisfaction in noticing a decrease in the pending load of the civil servant. Minister - confiding that the Senator with whom you are talking does not distract your attention because we have very few opportunities to confront ourselves - you now know us. In recent days we have been affected by a media controversy, let's say, an exchange of views in relation to the crime of fake in the budget of which you have also spoken and on which I will spend a few words. You know that our view on justice is essentially aimed at trying to make our contribution to solving the real problems, in addition to those of the inefficiency of the entire justice machine, namely the fight against the mafia and corruption. Moreover, I recall that this Saturday, 24 January, we are inviting citizenship - and you too, why not - to participate in an event that will take place in Rome, in Piazza del Popolo, with which we want to rediscover that choir, that community of intent that should be independent of political or ideological groups to say that we must be united, concrete and efficient in the fight against corruption and evil. With regard to the fight against mafia and corruption, you will have noticed that in our motion for a resolution, on which the majority will clearly vote against, we refer - and not because we are obsessed or conspiracy - to the Nazarene Pact: the first point of our resolution, in fact, asked the representative of the Government to report on the content of the famous pact between Force Italy and the Democratic Party in the matter of justice. We understood, in fact, that the agreements concerned only constitutional reforms and electoral law, but the first days of June 2014 we had a legitimate doubt when, a few minutes from the vote on the amendments to the anti-corruption bill package, the government intervened by raising its hand and saying that it was going to intervene with its own legislative measure. Since then, it was the beginning of June 2014, everything has stopped. This factual fact makes us very perplexed with regard to what you said when you said that sometimes government intervention is useful because it manages to take the path leading to a legislative text in a shorter time. In fact, we continue to think that if this government, eight or nine months ago, had not intervened in that way, on the one hand clumsy and on the other devastating, it would have gone differently. In fact, until the last Renziano post Mafia Capitale announcement of wanting to take the field and fight corruption, we had to take note of a substantial paralysis of the parliamentary work on which, Minister, allow me, probably some of your collaborators did not give you all the elements of departure and analysis. You would certainly not be so stupid, nor so in bad faith that you wanted to introduce the crime of fake into the budget that it was not provided for in the Grasso and related bill, but they probably did not tell you that, in fact, the Senate Justice Commission was working on a unified text already ready, drawn up by the rapporteur, which contained a version of the fake in the budget. [[Comments by Minister Orlando]] Unfortunately I cannot hear you well, we are not allowed a dialogue (maybe we will do it later if there is a chance), but if I have understood well what you have said, you may have missed some fact. I repeat, in the anti-corruption package we talked about four things: crimes against the public administration, provisions on the amount of the sentence (and perhaps also the prescription), self-recycling and fake in the budget. These were the subjects we were interested in. Well, you have already taken one apart: the crime of self-cycling that has been approved by this majority with our vote against we know that it is a crime that does not achieve its purpose. We do not wish, then, that even with regard to the crime of fraud in the budget, defined by many as the mother of corruption, or in any case as one of the mothers of the corrupting phenomenon (where economic resources are created to fuel corruption and the bribe market) we would lose this opportunity to tell you something, Minister, in reply to what you claim about the goodness of legislative intervention. While it is true that in the Government's amendment the maximum edittal penalty has increased to six years and that this involves the possibility of using telephone interceptions (even if we ask how much they can be incisive in a crime, such as the one we talk about, that is consumed within the company's accounting; perhaps there will be few opportunities), the point that we find incomprehensible is the fact that you continue to argue that a great merit of the Government is to have changed the crime, transforming it from a crime of damage to a crime of danger. I call on you, and then we will talk about it in the Commission, because we will be confronted with this. According to the current rules of the Civil Code, in Article 2621 the crime is not of harm, but of danger. The big problem with the government amendment is that it has reintroduced those thresholds of so-called non-penalty. You say you did this to protect businesses, especially small ones that do not have the facilities and the strength to escape the possibility of error. However, we are not fools of justice who want to hit the mistake; moreover, the same rule provides for the specific malice of wanting to profit for themselves or for others. Here no one wants to hit the mistake in the budget and you must allow us to say that, as far as the constant thought of the interest of small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises is concerned, very modestly we continue to boast that the 5 Star Movement is perhaps the political force that, even in fact and not only in words, is closer to those realities. Therefore, Minister, I repeat, we will have the opportunity to talk about this in the Commission, but we continue to think of what the Ministry of Justice itself indicated on 17 July 2014 in the technical report with regard to these non-criminality thresholds, i.e. that they deserve to be reconsidered. This is obviously an object to be considered and which, very briefly, in our opinion, will simply have to be eliminated, without it leading to a risk for small businesses which, even if they risk being misled, will certainly not be punishable if there is a lack of dole, profit and enrichment. I see that my time is running out, so on behalf of the M5S Group I am voting in favour of motions for resolutions Nos. I would like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to accept Amendments Nos 3, 4 and 4, and against the motions for resolutions Nos 3 and 4, as opposed to Amendments Nos 3 and 4, as opposed to Amendments Nos 3 and 4, as opposed to Amendments Nos 3 and 4, as opposed to Amendments Nos 3 and 4, as opposed to Amendments Nos 3 and 4, as well as Amendments Nos 3 and 4, as opposed to Amendments Nos 3 and 4, as opposed to Amendments Nos 3 and 4, as opposed to Amendments Nos 3 and 4, [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u38	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Minister, I would like to begin by thanking you for the first of the two recognitions you have clearly expressed to the Berlusconi Government. In fact, when you, in reference to the civil backwardness, spoke of a trend of constant decline from 2009 to the present day, in essence recognized the goodness of those initiatives of the Alfano dicastery concerning not so much and not only the simplification of civil rites, but the introduction of mediation and unified contribution. However, in this latter respect, I think, Minister, that she must pay attention to the now intolerable amount achieved by the unified contribution, which runs the risk of affecting the civil backwardness, but also of emptying the constitutionally guaranteed right of every citizen to take the judicial route. I was saying that through mediation the Berlusconi Government introduced a first form of dejurisdiction, and that is why, Minister, we had welcomed with a certain favour its reform of the civil process, because in it there was, through dejurisdictionalization, a strengthening of mechanisms similar to that of mediation. But see, Minister, we do not agree with the optimism of the Vice President of the European Commission (the reform of the civil justice system is the perfect example of a reform), which you mentioned in support of the goodness of your reforms in civil matters. Despite its optimism, on this point I feel I must call it a little more cautious: we will see the results of this reform and how it will affect the reduction of backwardness. If then what she imagines should happen, we are willing to thank her for her speech. We are talking about a reform that the Forza Italia Group did not vote and could not vote because inside it - it is useless to hide it - there was a very ideological segment, exactly that relating to the privatization of the marriage institution, because this corresponds to the fact that it delegated the dissolution and divorce to private mechanisms of resolution. That is why we did not understand the position of the friends of the New Right Centre who, on one side, joined that privatisation - which was nothing more than an opening to the publicistic content of the marriage - and, on another side, strongly oppose the discipline of civil unions for which, Minister, as the time has now come for the decision in the Commission, I would be grateful if you could finally send the voice of the Government to the Commission. The reform of the civil justice system is certainly an important intervention, but it needs other interventions, many of which - as you said - have been approved at the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2014; but we are - alas - in January 2015 and to date, for example, nothing has come to the Commission with regard to the reform of the honorary judiciary, which is also an important segment of the jurisdiction or, still, with regard to the establishment of the family court, so in the Commission, for the respect that we owe to the Government, the work on these two important segments is essentially firm. Minister, I would like to thank you for another recognition - and I also do so personally - that you intended to do in your speech, finally saying that, in the action of the Berlusconi Government, there has also been structural reform of the justice system, because this basically means your words when, with reference to the reform of judicial geography, it declares that it represents a conquest in terms of greater rationality and distribution of resources on the territory. Mr Minister, I am well aware of and I agree with the criticism that you intended to make in your reply to the so-called rule of three, but I must tell you that, when you wrote the delegation law, the idea of the legislator - my idea, which at the time I had the responsibility of the Dicastery of which you are the leader today - was completely different from that which was then implemented by Minister Severino within the technical government: we are talking about a fulfillment that has been subject only and exclusively to the logic of economic savings and that we often think has not taken into account the real aims of that reform, which were yes also those of the economic type, but above all those of making the justice service more efficient. Personally, Minister, I would have liked you to have brought us your first assessments of the performance of the delegation in dealing with this subject, and to tell us how much this has affected the efficiency of the justice service, the acceleration of the processes and in some way has not damaged the citizens' aspirations for justice. Minister, you're a decent person. You're an honest person and you know I value you. However, in your reference to the telematic process, let me remind you that you are in the final stage of a long journey, that you have crossed several governments and that, finally, with all the difficulties that have been pointed out in the general debate, it has entered into force, which we are absolutely satisfied with. You see, Minister, if much has been said in the past about criminals and little about civilians, this was not the fault of those who had the responsibility of the majority at the time, but it was probably the fault of those who were looking for elements of political antagonism or political propaganda. We're going to the penalty. I'll make a little nail. Between today and tomorrow we should vote on the amendments on environmental crime. Mr Minister, with regard to environmental crimes, you want very rapid approval, but bear in mind, speaking with the members of the Justice Commission and the Environment Commission who are part of your own party, how much perplexity that text from the House has generated within the Commissions and how important and urgent the need, felt by all members of the various Commissions, to try to operate on the text, not to diminish its effectiveness but to produce a measure that, beyond demagogy and propaganda, had the capacity to really affect the phenomenon. I agree, Minister, with the creation of an anti-terrorist prosecutor's office as a rib within the national prosecutor's office, even if, if this should ever happen, I wonder if it is not time to make a more general reflection on the structure of the prosecutor's offices. At the moment, that is, when we have the district directions and the national prosecutor who cover a very important part of the crime, I wonder if it is not appropriate to reason on the existence of district prosecutors in one with the existence of different prosecutors of the court. I agree with what you said in your reply, namely that, while waiting for the international matrix of terrorism, the need is that, not only to strengthen action at national level, but to join forces at European level. Both the European Public Prosecutor (and you have shown various doubts, which I agree with), which is what, as Senator Lumia says, is being asked of us by Europe, whether it is a different investigative body, but that does not matter, Minister, because your Government has the ambition to change towards, not only in Italy, but also in Europe, allow me at least to hope, taking up a sentence of your intervention in reply that, if ever we should proceed to the creation of a European body on the point, this happens not, as you said, over the head of Italy but, having said that you want to change towards, even with the head of Italy. You see, Minister, it would be sufficient for me, as regards intervention on corruption, to say that the elevation of the limits of edittal punishment is an unimaginative choice (on the point just read what President Cantone repeatedly says) or that - to be honest - in my opinion the rule on the pleas creates problems of constitutionality, but I would like to get to the conclusions, making only two considerations. The first concerns the total absence, in its intervention and in the same action of the Government, of any kind of initiative in the matter of telephone interceptions. The second concerns the reference you made to Caesar Beccaria. But, Minister, what interventions have been made by the Government on protective custody? Everything that has moved in terms of protective custody has found its origin and its genesis here in the Senate, because here has been inserted the home imprisonment and has been raised the minimum threshold for the precautionary measure and here it has imagined the cause of non punishableness for the particular tenuity of the fact. In summary (I have to conclude so as not to suffer the repression of President Calderoli), we are disappointed by your speech, which, I apologise, Minister, we consider sufficiently bureaucratic, more suitable to be held in a court of law on the occasion of the inauguration of the judicial year by the President of the Court of Cassation or the President of the Court of Appeal, but not here in the Senate. It is an intervention that, in my opinion, betrays the reason why this formally important moment was planned, that is to understand the policy that the type of project has towards justice: what are the intentions of the Minister of Justice and his Government to improve a situation that, as she said in her speech, now creates only malaise in Italians and that for Italians is equivalent to a hellish bolgy. These are the reasons why we are not satisfied with your speech and for which we shall vote against the two resolutions for which you gave a favourable opinion. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u41	Mr Maturani (PD). Mr President, Minister for Justice, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the figure and the person of President Emeritus Giorgio Napolitano, whose leadership and balance over the years have ensured that this country's system is maintained even at times of particular drama; to his work, to his profound sense of the institutions, together with a renewed sense of belonging to a Republic founded on unity and solidarity, we are all very indebted. I would like to stress that the debate that has taken place in this House is not merely a bureaucratic exercise, nor has it taken place and resulted in a merely formal passage. This year the inauguration of the judicial year coincides with the start of a season of reforms and legislative innovations that have a profound impact on the entire Italian judicial system. On the goodness of these reforms, the recognition of the Vice President of the European Commission Katainen, as you mentioned in this House, is very significant. That is why I would like to express my appreciation for the content of the Minister for Justice's communication on the state of the administration of justice itself. It should be noted that attention has not been paid to specific sector interventions, but rather to a comprehensive and broad design, with the awareness that each problematic profile should be systematically analysed and addressed while maintaining the overall coherence of the system. The many problems that have plagued justice in Italy for years cannot be tackled with fragmented interventions, which have often been unable, in the absence of an overall vision of reform that can remove in a structural and definitive way the problem of efficiency and response times both in the civil sector and in the criminal sector. It is precisely for this reason that, Minister, the method approach you have set out, especially with regard to the overall revision of the organisational models for the operation of the administrative machinery, is welcome. It is well known, and it has also been pointed out by you, what a direct connection there is between the non-functioning of justice and the repercussions on the country's economy. Unreliable civil justice, which is slow to respond to the increasingly pressing need for protection of citizens and businesses, inevitably leads to a reduction in investment and reinforces a sense of overall distrust of the system. On this front, we are pleased to learn the comforting fact of the decline in the slopes and the ability of the magistrates to produce a particularly high yield for defining disputes. The various interventions made show clearly the correctness of an approach characterized by the analysis of arrears and the identification of the reasons for the diversification of performance between the different judicial offices, in order to define, at a later stage, the individual concrete measures to be taken. The census carried out on the state of civil justice, with the preparation of the "Strasbourg 2" project, is certainly an important step for the precise outline of the necessary interventions. Among these, it is worth highlighting those relating to the entry into force of the mandatory telematic civil process, measures which have made decisive progress towards computerisation and the consequent greater speed and cost-effectiveness of the procedures. The choice to identify further alternative paths to the judicial ones, already drawn up with the entry into force of the conciliation media, has been further continued with the introduction of the transfer of the process to the arbitration judgment of the assisted negotiation. However, we hope that these important interventions will be adequately supported by further measures aimed at reducing the number of civil proceedings carried out by each magistrate upstream, in order to enable the system to resume in a timely manner adequate levels of efficiency. At the level of criminal justice, it should be pointed out at once that the dramatic events in Paris bring about a renewed need for security for citizens. In this respect, there is an urgent need to adapt the regulatory instruments, but also the need to be able to rely on a rapid, modern and efficient penal and penitentiary system. You referred, Minister, to the preparation of a draft law on measures to update the current regulation of regulatory instruments on the prevention and repression of terrorist phenomena, in particular those of international origin. Well, in the dramatic context that we are living, the more appropriate it seems to me the forecast of the new case of crime that punishes those who organize or otherwise support the transfers abroad of subjects foreordained to carry out acts with a purpose of terrorism. These interventions are accompanied by those aimed at extending the possibility of applying personal prevention measures against potential foreign fighters. On this front, it seems essential that the measures be taken as soon as possible and we trust that all political forces will be committed to the adoption of innovations that will improve the system of prevention and repression of such alarming crimes. It is also necessary to refer to the recent and repeated emergence of mafia-style organised crime, which has also manifested itself in terms of close connection with widespread and usual corruption. The tightening of the penalties for the crime of corruption by act contrary to the duties of office, resulting in an increase in time of limitation of the crimes, and the increase of the minimum edittale constitute interventions to be considered unavoidable. The deterrent effect of the sentence, especially where it is expected to be applied quickly, is an effective means of combating this particular type of crime, over which too often there is a widespread feeling of impunity. It must be considered extremely useful to strengthen the confiscation instrument with a view to maintaining its effectiveness even if, in the degree of appeal, an extinct cause of the crime being found has occurred. In the same way, it is absolutely necessary to provide for the full return of the price or profit of the crime as a condition for the admissibility of the plea or for the issue of a sentence with a predetermined penalty. We come to the data that the Minister of Justice has reported here today about prison. The overcrowding of prisons, with its capacity for inhumanity and degradation, is not only part of the long section of our country's infrastructure deficit or the lack of modernisation of the justice and security system, or of the chronic delays of politics to interpret social transformations. The judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, as you have reminded us, with the Torreggiani judgment and the confrontation that has come down from it in the public debate, has directly questioned us about the respect for the fundamental values of the pact constituting our civil coexistence, the protection of the inviolable rights of man, the duties of solidarity to which our social, economic and political organization is referred. From the data that you have reported to us today, we have a significant signal of counter-trend, with a very large decrease of prisoners; fact, this, which reports the situation of overcrowding, even if it is not completely resolved, substantially outside the state of emergency, as recognised also in Europe. But the most important aspect that we welcome with satisfaction is the fact that the decrease in the number of prisoners is reflected in the increase in the number of alternative measures to detention. This means that the interventions adopted by the Government and this Parliament have not resulted in an indiscriminate exit from the criminal enforcement system and have not, therefore, in any way endangered the safety of citizens. In the same way, we note the commitment that the Ministry has made also from the organizational point of view to improve the conditions of the prisoners. We are all aware that, in addition to overcrowding, the prison system needs interventions that put at the centre, as well as the dignity of the people, also the need to offer real opportunities for integration. [[Call the president back.]] I'm closing, Mr. President, very few minutes. In this respect, the issue of penitentiary work and the work that is being built in the relationship with the Ministry of Labour and the Regions is extremely important. That is why we believe it is very important that this report is quickly put into practice. With a view to strengthening and extending alternative measures to detention and precisely in order to promote the growth of this fundamental area of criminal execution, I think it is important to stress, Minister, the significant contribution, together with all the professionalism you have rightly mentioned in your speeches, to the valuable work of the social service, which is indeed one of the important pillars for the real implementation of alternative measures to detention. To conclude, it cannot but be recognized by this House that many efforts and actions have been put in place to meet the need to provide our country with effective justice and in line with that of other European countries. The hope that as a Member of this House is that in the course of 2015 they will finally be able to complete their important steps to redefine a new system of rights as well. I am thinking, for example, of the draft law on civil unions, homophobia, short divorce currently being examined by the Senate Justice Commission, but I am also thinking of the important issue of the closure of the OPGs. I hope and hope, Minister, that there will really be no further extension to the date that has been set. On this issue the whole Senate, but particularly the Health and Justice Commissions have done an extraordinary job that must not be frustrated. It is therefore essential to proceed with actions that have a perceptible impact on the concrete difficulties of the system, but also in the full awareness that the proper functioning of justice is a fundamental element in measuring the quality of our democracy and an indispensable instrument of development and economic growth. Thank you also for the kindness you had to leave me a few more minutes. I declare the Democratic Party Group's vote in favour of the first-signed motions for resolutions by Senator Zanda and Senator De Petris. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u42	Colleagues, this measure was contingent. The government had 30 minutes available but spoke for more than two hours, and the last colleagues also spoke very widely. Therefore, if these will be the times also on the electoral law - and I should not say so - we will vote on it Thursday, but in January 2016 and not 2015. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Zanda, Sacconi, Zeller and Susta. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 2, on which Senator Stefani asked for a split vote. I would like a reply to the Minister because he has been given a negative opinion on the premise, a favourable opinion on the points (c), (f), (m) and (o) of the operative part, and a negative opinion on the rest. ORLANDO, Minister for Justice. Yes, Mr. President, I confirm.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u45	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for a further separate vote on the points (j) and (k) of the device.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u46	If there is no opposition, we shall proceed with three votes: one on the whole, excluding letters (j) and (k), on which the contrary opinion was expressed; one on letters (j) and (k); and one on the parts on which the Government's favourable opinion was expressed. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the premise and points (a), (b), (d), (e), (g), (h), (i), (l), (n) and (p) of the motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of points (j) and (k) of the motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of points (c), (f), (m) and (o) of the motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 3, on which Mr Orlando has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u47	Mr President, I would ask that the motion for a resolution No 3 be reworded as follows: expounding the ninth, tenth and thirteenth paragraphs of the preamble and the ninth paragraph of the proposal, as it is unrelated to the subject we have been discussing today. If my request is accepted, I confirm the previous favourable opinion on the resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u48	Do the presenters accept the reformulation just requested by the representative of the Government? DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 4, which precludes the words 'does not approve the communications made by the Minister of Justice and 'does not approve'. I call on Senator Buccarella and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 4 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u51	SIMONI (Mist). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago I intervened in this House to denounce, as a member of the Human Rights Commission, the atrocities of the terrorist group operating in Northern Nigeria, known as Boko Haram. On that occasion, these terrorists committed an ignoble misdeeds: the kidnapping of 200 Nigerian girls, with the aim of selling them as slaves after raping them and forced them to convert to Islam. The same terrorist group used a 10-year-old girl as a human bomb, right after massacred nearly 2,000 people. The level of ferocity and inhumanity achieved by this group is now comparable to that achieved by the fanatical extremists of ISIS, with whom they have now also joined. Talking about human rights violations has now become reductive. In Nigeria the war of religion is only an excuse: the real division is between the elite who is in power thanks to oil and corruption, and the population living in the North, poor and abandoned to itself. In 2014 alone, more than 10,000 people were killed and 1.5 million people lost their homes. The terrorist group Boko Haram now controls an area as large as Denmark and is expanding its influence beyond Nigeria's borders these days. Now there has been news of a mass abduction in Cameroon and other activities that also affect neighboring states. But for the media, this doesn't seem to have happened. With elections on the doorstep and violence out of control, Nigeria is now a pressure cooker ready to explode. Politicians have betrayed citizens, and international governments have allowed the situation to fall. There is no more time to waste and, with strong support, a strong UN decision can be the starting point for changing the situation. Let's do this. Despite what has happened in France, we refuse to accept the reality: terrorist threats are rising dramatically and we may soon have a new extremist Islamic State in the heart of Africa. We cannot continue to be passive spectators of this disaster: we must immediately ask for the UN Security Council to meet to face this crisis. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u54	SERRA (M5S). Mr President, the state public school in Italy suffers from a devastating illness: indifference. Construction, integration and the right to training are treated with total indifference and deep superficiality. With regard to the building data in Italy we have 41,000 buildings monitored, more than half have poorly functioning plumbing, thermal and electrical systems, if not dilapidated. About 10,000 buildings have dangerous plasters, 3,600 need interventions on bearing structures. Around 2,000 schools expose about 340,000 students to the risks of asbestos. All these data, proven by studies and documented by annual monitoring by local authorities, are permeated by a dark shadow, the shadow of total indifference. As far as integration is concerned, he was never so raped of meaning and value. We are aware of the choices that the extraordinary commissioner of the Province of Medio Campidano, in Sardinia, has made towards 21 pupils who can not reach their institutes in Cagliari, even 20 kilometers away from their residences, if not with the school bus. However, the school bus management contract has been cancelled due to a lack of funds and pupils will no longer be able to attend school since 24 January. A fuel refund benefit has been arranged to be given to companions, but many parents, besides not having the opportunity to accompany their children to school, cannot succumb to a shameful and humiliating state of indifference. In all the provinces of Italy the system to promote integration, to promote assistance to pupils has become pure utopia. I asked the Minister for Education for directions and taken care of these dramatic situations, but in response on 13 January I was told that with "good school" the number of places of support are expected, as if assistance, construction, training and integration depended on the number of support teachers. Perhaps it is necessary to remedy indifference and act with conscience and professional knowledge. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u57	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Mr President, today is the first year since the senator's death for life, Master Claudio Abbado. However, his presence is more alive than ever: the many moments dedicated to him in these days testify, starting from his Bologna that will bring the teacher's message to all the city schools. Of particular importance are the concerts of the orchestra Malher, which he founded in 1997, which will perform in Ferrara - where the municipal theatre will come to him titled - Turin, Pavia and Cremona; performances directed by the master Daniele Gatti, who has remembered in these days the artistic and moral uniqueness of Abbado. And how not to give feedback to the hundreds of initiatives that Italy has dedicated to him, beginning with the days of the farewell in Bologna, greeted by the many personalities and orchestra Mozart, passing through Milan, who dedicated to him the season of the Filarmonica della Scala and the edition of "Milano Musica" (Milan Musica), recalling the master and sister Luciana Pestalozza. In this House, we have remembered him for what he has done, for what he has done. Today, in honoring his memory, we can gather our reflections on what we have done. I remember how in the days immediately following the death of the master, also in this Chamber, there were many certificates of esteem and intentions so that his moral and artistic message could find a follow-up and inspire the action of the House and the Government. We promised then, urged by Senator Renzo Piano's appeal, a commitment to access, from the earliest years of life, to music culture and practice. But also the commitment to support the entire sector of cultural offering in the music sector in our country. Hence the idea of setting up a parliamentary Intergroup for music, which is working to support the production, use and formation of music, positively interlocating with the Ministries of Culture and Education. The attention of the teacher and his commitment to those who live in difficult and depraved situations led us to consider music as a training and rehabilitation experience and with a great potential for social inclusion, concepts that deeply inspire the work of the association "Mozart 2014" presided over by his daughter Alessandra. The "Tamino" and "Papageno" projects, addressed the first, also with musicotherapeutic practices, to the small patients of the polyclinic of Bologna in the services of child neuro-psychiatry; the second, of music literacy aimed at the inmates of the district house "Dossi" which has activated an intense network of integration with schools of the territory. Music for everyone, but also music for the last. In the government document "Good school" we find references and answers to the right of children, boys and girls to access music culture and practice. The Government's consultation on this document highlighted a strong demand for music and art from students and parents. The demand for music and real experience in the field of artistic languages is well present in society and institutions, sharing its strong educational, cultural and ethical importance, must give answers to this widespread need. Certainly the Government is working in this perspective, also providing for interventions that cannot be postponed in the high musical formation. The bill no. 1365 "Valorization of expression, musical and artistic in the system of education" was signed by all the parliamentary groups in the Senate; as first signatory, I announced to the Assembly, one month after the death of the teacher, that it was inspired by his teaching and proposed a system response; a path that, from Palazzo Madama, extended to Montecitorio, where a similar bill will be deposited in these days by my colleague, Mr Malpezzi. Culture - said Claudio Abbado - is a common good like water: theaters, libraries, museums, cinemas are many aqueducts. Institutions and third sector are at work thinking about the future of music but also about the music of the future. Master Abbado encouraged us to look forward: to him goes the deepest gratitude for what he has done for Italy: he has made great Italian music, leaving us a priceless legacy all the more precious the more able to regenerate. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u58	Senator, the Presidency joins your memory and shares what you have done.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-01-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-379.ana.u59	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.34 p.m.
