ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 21 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved. [[Senator Mauro Giovanni points out that he wants to intervene.]] Senator Mauro, the buzz of this House has not allowed me to hear it. It'll be another chance.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u4	By letter dated 30 May 2015, Senator Bonfrisco announced the constitution of the Parliamentary Group called "Conservatori, Riformisti italiani" (Italian Reformists). The Group includes Senators Bonfrisco, Bruni, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, Falanga, Liuzzi, Eva Longo, Milo, Di Maggio, Pagnoncelli, Perrone, Tarquinio and Zizza. At the same time, the Group Assembly elected Senator Bonfrisco as President, and we wish her every success. [[Applause.]] Therefore, Senators Bonfrisco, Bruni, D'Ambrosio Lettieri, Falanga, Liuzzi, Eva Longo, Pagnoncelli, Perrone, Tarquinio and Zizza cease to belong to the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura Group, while Senators Di Maggio and Milo cease to belong to the Gruppo Grandi Autonomie e Libertà Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1719, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the general discussion took place. The speakers and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the examination of the agendas which are set out and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u6	I would point out that the rapporteurs have not yet been able to see the opinion put forward by the 5th Commission. Can we have a chance to read it? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission shall be void. , rapporteur. If the opinion on order G100 is void, it is in favour with the following rewording: after the words "the Government" insert the words: "to evaluate the adoption of any necessary initiative for the purpose of "the Government." On the G101 agenda, I am in favour of the following proposal for the rewording of the system: I also call for the amendments tabled on the articles of the draft law to be withdrawn, otherwise I am against them all.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u7	The Government shall give its assent to that of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u8	I don't see Senator Bertorotta in the Chamber. Senator Bottici, you are a signatory together with Senator Bertorotta, on the agenda for the G100 for which the rapporteur proposed the following amendment: Here is Senator Bertorotta: we would like to hear the opinion of the first signatory on the proposal to amend the agenda G.100. With the proposed rewording, the agenda commits the Government to assess the adoption of the draft, rather than to adopt the draft. Do you welcome you, Senator Bertorotta? BERTOROTTA (M5S). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Comaroli, do you accept the proposal to change the rapporteur and the government on the agenda G.101 (text 2) with which the Government undertakes to assess the preparation in the appropriate locations? COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u11	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, the ratification of the Italy-US agreement on FATCA is basically positive. It aims, in fact, to improve the exchange of information between our country and the American country. But how much room for manoeuvre has Italy had in the stages of this negotiation? The percentage of American citizens living in Italy is below one percent of all the foreign population present in our territory. Not many, therefore; but, as Seneca would say, few but good. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, because American citizens living in Italy work, study and produce: in a word, they raise GDP. Very little, of course, but the sign is always positive. Now, we, as good Italians, what do we do? Masters of bureaucracy, legislative artifice and legal uncertainty, of course, let's not take an example from the countries that work, objectively, better than ours, but let's just take Diktat. So, from Germany, as from the United States, instead of importing their models that work, we make ourselves give orders that we diligently execute. I do not say, of course, that the legislation in question is not informed of the most diligent proposals for transparency and the fight against evasion. I can't say that. The League, as is well known, has been fighting its fight against evasion for years and sees with good eye any legislative measures that are oriented in this sense, but I cannot fail to point out that ratification brings into our system an evil mechanism against which Italy has not opposed any resistance. Of course, the FATCA legislation is applied in exactly the same way in all the countries with which the US has signed the agreement, including - I remember - the very rigid Switzerland, which has finally opened up on the issue of banking secrecy. Here is another good example that Italy has cleverly avoided: while the Swiss Confederation has chosen the second model of intergovernmental agreement, which provides for the consent of the account holder to transmit data to the US tax authorities (without its agreement, in fact, the information will be exchanged the same, but on the basis of the administrative assistance provided by the double taxation agreements), our country has chosen instead - and could not be otherwise, because we know how to bow - the first model, i.e. the automatic exchange of information. Well, then, we fight against tax evasion, but do we want to worry, once in this country, about protecting people who, for the most part, operate in legality and indeed contribute to growth? Few adjustments would have been enough to prevent, in fact, from vexing American citizens resident in Italy and the same Italians who married American citizens. Two of them: to provide, with certainty, that American citizens residing in our country would be subject to the taxation of only one of these two countries, obviously that of tax residence, in order to prevent double taxation. And, less important but nevertheless important, to provide that financial institutions not only inform their American clients and the Italian citizens themselves who married American citizens in a timely and complete manner, but also adopt, at least, a unique form, instead there is so much of that bureaucracy, which is so different from one institution to another, that the same citizens who want to fulfil their duty are often unable to do so because - I apologize for the statement, Mr President - they are not in a position to understand anything about it. Just open one of the many blogs of American citizens resident in Italy to understand their problems about the application of FATCA in our country, but to understand above all their confusion, because unfortunately - we see it every day - our country, Mr President, lives in the uncertainty of the law and the protection of non-existent rights. As for the uncertainty of law, just see what happens in Italian justice and as for the protection of non-existent rights just see how we continue to feed an immigration that works in black and does not pay taxes, but asks and gets assistance paid with public money. For the League the fight against evasion must be done, without if and without but, because the evasion has no color and no nationality, but we are tired of seeing that anyone who respects the rules, in this country, is tormented and harassed by the administration, while those who do not respect them are given discounts and indeed, increase the rights and satisfy the claims. Therefore, the League will never vote against a measure whose objective is the fight against evasion, but for the reasons I have just set out, it will abstain from voting on this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u14	MOLINARI (Mixed). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, Senators, Senators, sometimes we forget too easily that interest in the fulfilment of tax obligations is a decisive objective for the very survival of modern democracies, because it is through the resources established and collected that it is possible to fulfil the complex tasks that are entrusted to democratic institutions; provided that this obligation is not transmuted, in suffocating oppression or defaced by the ends. For this, too, or especially for this reason, it becomes essential to have tools to combat the violations of tax rules by those who, perhaps taking advantage of the ability to move in the supranational world of finance, contribute to the loss of a significant part of the revenue due to it. Our country and the United States have long maintained close relations in the area of mutual tax assistance and already in 1999 they signed a Convention in order to avoid double taxation, i.e. to prevent taxes being paid in both countries, and to prevent tax fraud and evasion. The Convention also authorizes the exchange of information for tax purposes between countries, including on an automatic basis. On 1 July 2014, the FATCA (Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act) entered into force in the US, the purpose of which is to charge US taxpayers income taxes - particularly of a financial nature - outside national borders, through the cooperation of non-US institutions. It is easy to understand the need, immediately after, to regulate with an agreement the obligations established by the FATCA towards the Italian financial institutions - as the US has already done with other countries - given the legal obstacles and economic burdens that would have met the latter without an adequate regulatory intervention in our legal system. The Agreement was concluded in January 2014 and today it is necessary to ratify it in order to explain its undoubted positive effects: hence the need to approve this bill and the reason for my positive vote. It is, moreover, a measure which is not limited to the implementation of the automatic exchange of information, which - as we have seen - has been in operation since 1999, resulting from the Agreement with the United States, but also extends it to the future agreements to be concluded by Italy with other States, or even those technical arrangements which will result from those agreements. It is an Agreement - I repeat - whereby the Italian financial institutions are obliged to identify the holders of US investors of accounts that are open to them, in order to communicate the information relating to payments made to non-participating financial institutions and to be shared with the institutions. In essence, and for those who fail to understand, attempts are made to limit money laundering and evasion and to ensure, at the same time, that American citizens fulfil their tax obligations towards their country. Having said that, we are well aware of some present problems, partly arising from the original FACTA legislation (of which I know that a revision is being discussed in the US Parliament), which is therefore hoped to be improved in the future, in order to make more detailed also the aspect of the reciprocity of the automatic exchange of information between Italy and the United States, precisely with a view to ensuring a systematic discipline of the matter, which allows the achievement of equal application synergies. This was aimed at the agenda at the first signature of Mr Vacciano, accepted by the Government. In any case, it is assured - and this is a positive aspect - to Italy any better treatment contained in an Agreement implementing the legislation that the United States should in future sign with other countries. Another critical aspect concerns the sanctioning mechanism, which leaves the relationship between the infringement and the applicable sanction indefinite, not graduating the weight in the discrimination of the cases and leaving wide discretion - and therefore greater responsibility - to the judge in making the penalty correspond to the case before him (although on this we appreciated the acceptance, during the debate in the Commission, of my agenda for remedying it). Finally, it is also right to recall how it will be possible, always thanks to the adoption of my agenda, to reconsider - in view of the principle of determination - the relationship between violations and subsequent sanctioning treatment, as well as to better define the punishable cases, while at the same time ensuring respect for the principle of taxability, with the planned enactment of the decrees of the Minister of Economy and Finance, which will be aimed at defining the technical and implementing regulatory framework of the matter. Moreover, despite these critical issues, which add to the increases in the obligations to which financial intermediaries are obliged, the importance of ratification of the Agreement is evident, also in the light of the evolution of the fight against international tax evasion and avoidance, which has found a significant convergence in the need for the United States to finally equip itself with instruments based on automatic exchange of information and effective transparency for tax purposes. The increase in cross-border tax offences has made it increasingly important to use administrative cooperation, both with the Member States of the European Union and with the partner States of the Treaties. We recall that, as of 2012, multilateral negotiations have been launched between States, which is then at the origin of the model which, in June 2013, became the basis of the European Commission's proposal for the revision of Directive No 16 of 2011 on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. It is now common to all the countries of the G20 that the effectiveness of the fight against international tax evasion passes through international agreements that give rise to multilateral negotiations: the anti-evasive maneuvers put in place by agreements simply bilateral - therefore between individual States - risk, in fact, generating asymmetries, removing investment from abroad and with poor results in terms of revenue. It is then emblematic that this awareness arises precisely in a country, the United States, which is also a shrine of world finance, an increasingly aggressive finance, which tends to cut off profits that tend to escape the taxation of States. The mobility elusive from countries with high taxation to others with low tax pressure, operated by multinational companies, can be fought only by establishing unique and shared rules at international level and above all, as prescribed in this Agreement, increasing the maximum transparency and automatic exchange of information between the various tax administrations. In the light of all this, it seems peaceful that there are no grounds of principle for opposing the ratification of this Agreement, but, on the contrary, positive repercussions - and not only for tax revenues - which must lead to deepening such cooperation instruments in order to better delimit the scope of intervention; and this by keeping the shadows of money laundering and the casual circulation of the proceeds of corruption, which would finally be enlightened. We begin to tighten the circle on the great escape, that of the big holding companies and the brazen world giants, rather than fierce ourselves - as always has been done - with rustic tax pressures on the usual known. Those who oppose such agreements, which aim to increase transparency and cooperation between tax agencies, are either an unconscious fool or an unconscious accomplice to great evasion, and I do not know what is worse. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u17	COMPANIES (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would just like to announce my Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u20	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, today we are ratifying an Agreement signed on 10 January 2014. Of course, we can't be more surprised than anything in here, since we ratified 2009 agreements this morning. We are, therefore, just a little late, but not only. In fact, within the draft law ratifying this Agreement, it is established that the financial information to be collected and transmitted starts from 1 July 2014 and is delivered within nine months of the end of the year. I wonder, therefore, whether we are collecting financial data without any authorisation, given that the Agreement has not yet been ratified. Someone should explain this to me and give me legal certainty, since in the Committee on Finance the act of the Government establishes legal certainty, but every time there is something that is not right. Furthermore, the agreement under consideration lacks reciprocity in the exchange of information: we must, that is, transmit some financial data, while the United States has other rules. Also on page 23 of the file of the measure, in fact, on the basis of reciprocity, in Article 6, the first paragraph says that: The United States Government recognises the need to achieve equivalent levels of automatic mutual exchange of information with Italy. The U.S. Government is committed to further improving transparency and to intensify trade relations with Italy, pursuing the adoption of regulations by supporting and supporting legislation aimed at achieving these equivalent levels of automatic mutual exchange. I wonder why, as an Italian State, we have signed an agreement that is not mutual, on the basis of which we provide information on some data the other country does not do so. Did they put pressure on us? Is it true that the United States often exerts pressure on Italy? I'm asking the government representative. Then in Article 8 (1) of the Agreement it is stipulated that: If difficulties arise in the application of this Agreement, each Party may request consultations with a view to developing appropriate measures to ensure the implementation of this Agreement. Paragraph 2 then reads as follows: This Agreement may be amended by written consent between the Parties. Each amendment shall enter into force in accordance with the same procedures as referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 10. Since we were told in the Commission that the draft law could not be amended, because otherwise that agreement would not come into force, I ask the Government again if we have thought of making specific requests to the United States about things that do not work. We await the answers to this question. In addition, Article 5 of the Agreement establishes the different discrepancies, in the sense that a distinction is made between minimum and administrative errors, serious non-compliance, recourse to third-party service providers and anything else. Since the Agreement makes a certain distinction on the various errors that can be made in the transmission of data, the draft law instead leaves wide discretion to the judge to determine, with the relative penalty, whether an error is serious or not. Here too, I wonder why the Government does not respect an agreement that it has signed by making differences between the various mistakes. Article 11 of the draft law refers to the invariance of expenditure, but I would like to point out that the financial institutions obliged to transmit data must do so by their own means and by their own staff. We know very well that banks or Italian Post Spa or any savings management companies will put the cost of their operations on the shoulders of the citizens. Then I also ask the Government in this regard because every time the State undertakes to make agreements and to transmit some data they must always pay the citizens. For all these unclear aspects, the 5 Star Movement Group will abstain in the final vote, as it hopes and waits at last to see recognition of the importance of this parliamentary Republic, of which yesterday was the anniversary, and to finally be able to say something before the agreements with other countries are signed. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u23	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I presented in general debate the many reasons why Forza Italia considers this Agreement to be positive in the context of the strategy and the fight against evasion resulting from international capital movements. I do not think I should dwell on and repeat what I have already said and, therefore, for the reasons set out this morning, I am announcing the vote in favour of Forza Italia.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u26	MARINO Mauro Maria (PD). Mr President, Mr Casero, ladies and gentlemen, I will make a brief speech to highlight the fact that this draft law is not one of the many ratifications that we are dealing with here, sometimes with great passion, but a very significant and decisive part of a general strategy that is emerging in the field of international taxation at different regulatory levels. The Commissions meeting 3rd and 6th have dealt quickly and thoroughly - and I thank the two rapporteurs, Senators Pegorer and Susta for this - with the text already examined by the Chamber of Deputies so that, with the approval of the Assembly, it could become law as soon as possible. On the other hand, as I said, the draft law is part of a broader framework to which the Finance and Treasury Commission is contributing in tune with the Government. The fight against international evasion is, in fact, a significant part of the fight against all forms of tax evasion, and involves action on several fronts on which the Commission is committed. In recent years the tax evasion, which in Italy - as evidenced by the latest report of the Government - amounts to 91 billion, has assumed an increasing international connotation: the use of the foreign channel for the purposes of evasion is now an option that can be explored by a wide audience of taxpayers. Coordinated responses at international level have therefore been necessary, and Italy has played a leading role in this respect. I would also like to stress this in the light of what I have heard so far in my colleagues' explanations of vote. I remember that the first impulse dates back to 2009, when the London G20 announced the gradual overcoming of banking secrecy. At that time it seemed to be a general announcement, while a new era of cooperation between tax authorities had been inaugurated through the so-called exchange on demand. Therefore, the arrival of US legislation, namely the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA), at our examination, has led to the creation of the new standard - and, therefore, has made an actual leap in quality - for the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes. The new standard was then approved in 2014 by the OECD and the G20 of Brisbane. The Common Reporting Standard plans to censor and transmit specific information on non-resident investors who hold a financial account in a foreign state with the Government of the State of residence - and this specification seems more necessary than ever in the light of the debate that has just taken place - guaranteeing the possibility of intercepting a very wide range of income and financial availability and to overcome the screen of the vehicles used. The system even manages to intercept the consistency of fruitless capital. The impetus of the FATCA led to a strong acceleration in 2014 towards the automatic exchange of financial information for tax purposes. European legislation, which is based on Article 19 of Directive 2011/16/EU, requires intra-European exchange of what has already been granted to the United States. This is also why the G5 countries (France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Spain and Italy) have promoted a pilot initiative for the introduction of a mechanism that provides for the automatic mandatory exchange of financial information for tax purposes between the acceding countries. The result is that among the 93 acceding States (a year ago there were 44), 58 have committed themselves to implementing CRS since 2016, to exchange data collected in 2017. For the remaining trading obligations, they will apply from 2018. In addition, 51 states - and this was the turning point - including Italy, signed on 29 October 2014 a multilateral framework agreement, designed as a platform for the implementation of automatic exchange in the global context. The purpose of the new Directive 2014/107/EU is to incorporate the CRS (Common Reporting Standard) into EU law, with effect from 1 January 2016 and from 2017 as regards the beginning of trade. The directive will also form the basis for negotiations in order to obtain equal conditions from Andorra, Liechtenstein, Monaco, San Marino and Switzerland, the so-called European third countries. And already only in this data there is the sense of quality that communicates to us this overall project. At present, action is needed on national law in order to bring it into line with international commitments. Moreover, recognizing the role played also in the Presidency of the European Union, the Global Forum on Tax Transparency has given Italy the presidency of the new international group that monitors the implementation of the automatic exchange mechanism. Italy will therefore ensure that international pressure on non-member states is maintained within the G20 and OECD. In addition, G20 and OECD are studying the counter-measures to be taken against non-cooperative jurisdictions. The proposal for a directive, which is being analysed at this stage by the 6th Commission, the 135th of the European Commission, ensures administrative cooperation between tax administrations, also establishing a mandatory automatic exchange of information on cross-border preventive rulings and advance transfer pricing agreements. It is the importance of the descending phase and the ability of national parliaments to grasp this specificity. These are the same issues that, internally, the Commission is examining in relation to the draft delegated decree on the internationalisation of enterprises in implementation of the tax delegation. The fruitful collaboration of the Commission with the Government, on the occasion of the approval of the laws of fiscal delegation and in the matter of emergence and return of capital, is proceeding, in fact, also for the examination of this act, which constitutes a further part of the legislation: concrete acts that will make it easier, within this framework, the life of foreign companies. Since the framework only makes sense if there is a comprehensive vision, the context described includes the adoption of Law No 186 of December 2015, concerning the emergence and return of capital held abroad and self-cycling, the so-called voluntary disclosure, under which it was possible to reach the signing, on 23 February 2015, of the Protocol amending the Convention against double taxation in force between Italy and Switzerland, which contains significant provisions on the exchange of information. Similar agreements were subsequently signed with Liechtenstein, the Principality of Monaco, the Republic of San Marino and the Holy See. And this - in my opinion - is due to the commitment that the Government has made in the practical implementation of the principles given by Parliament. This is a series of agreements which outline a new regulatory environment and which suggests an ever more effective law enforcement action. The PD Group's vote in favour is therefore motivated not only by the specific content of the ratification of the Italy-US Agreement, but also by the context described and by all the measures briefly mentioned. Finally, I would like to stress a very significant point of order with which I conclude: it certainly does not escape the value for the Erario of all measures to combat evasion, both internal and international. However, starting from tax delegation, fiscal policy has favoured the direction of a renewed and different relationship between tax and taxpayer, based essentially on a paradigm of cooperation and loyalty. The fruits in terms of legal certainty, simplification of compliance, rationalisation of procedures, but also strengthening of controls all have a context impact, which will not be too late to influence overall revenue. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the ambitious objectives. This is the way to decline a new reformism also in the tax field. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Susta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u29	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u30	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u31	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 667 and 1421. The rapporteur, Senator Buccarella, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u32	Mr President, we are examining the draft law proposing an amendment to Article 278 of the Criminal Code in the matter of offense to the honour or prestige of the President of the Republic. On 21 October 2014, the Justice Commission launched a joint examination of two bills of identical content (the Senate Act 667, presented by Ciampolillo and others, and the Senate Act 1421, presented by Senator Gasparri). Both proposals led to the repeal of Article 278 of the Criminal Code, and also to the expunging of any reference to the offence of offense to the honor and prestige of the Head of State in the other norms of the Civil Code. Subsequently, the Justice Commission adopted the Senate Act 667 as the basic text, making significant amendments to it in its amendment. The text we are debating today consists of a single provision, which amends Article 278 of the Criminal Code in the matter of offense to the honour and prestige of the President of the Republic. The text, reviewing the original installation of the aforementioned parliamentary initiatives, which provided for the pure and simple abolition of crimes, amends the codistic article replacing the prison sentence with the pecuniary penalty of the fine from 5,000 to 20,000 euros and restricting the scope of the sanction in two respects. The edittal framework of the detention penalty passes, in its maximum limit, from the current five years of the norm currently in force to two years and, in its minimum limit, from one year to fifteen days. The scope of the imprisonment is limited only to cases where the offence to the Head of State consists in the attribution of a given fact. The crime we are talking about, in its current wording, punishes anyone who offends the honor or prestige of the President of the Republic with the prison sentence from one to five years. This provision protects the moral personality of the Head of State. The punishable conduct consists in offending the honor or prestige of the Head of State and the good interest protected by the norm consists in the moral personality of the President of the Republic, instrumental to the political interest of the State and the respect of the honor (relative, this, to private life) and of the prestige (relative, this aspect, instead, to the performance of the functions) of his Head, who represents the personality. For this very reason, all the various exceptions to the constitutional legitimacy of the rule have been rejected for violating the principle of equal social dignity of citizens and, from the point of view of the reasonableness of the sanction, for disproportion with that established for the rights of insult and contempt to public officer. An offense, in order to be able to be traced back to the provision of which Article 278 of the Criminal Code, must be, already in itself, previewed as a crime by another incriminating norm. The conduct must, therefore, supplement the right of insult, defamation, outrage or any other crime involving an offence against the honour or prestige of the taxable person. Moreover, by not referring to a legislative list of the means by which the offence can be done, Article 278 constitutes a crime which is defined as a free form: the conduct, that is, can be realized by any appropriate means, whether verbal, written or material. From the point of view of the grounds for justification, it should be noted that the right of satire and the right of criticism are already admitted as grounds for justification by the jurisprudence, although with some caution, while recognizing that Article 21 of the Constitution protects the exercise of the right of criticism also vis-à-vis the constitutional institutions, including the President of the Republic. In fact, it has been found that the law in question finds an insurmountable limit in the prestige, decorum and authority of the institutions and must always correspond to the social interest, communication and correctness of the language, thus being able to legitimately carry out the criticism only on the merit of the acts of the Head of State and in forms that do not trasmodino in attacks directed to hit him on the individual plane. The same limit is identified for the exercise of political satire, which cannot result in insults, contumelies or free of charge. On this point, I would like to point out that there is another rule that would apply even if the amendments which we know have been proposed here again, in this House, were not adopted, aimed at reintroducing the scope of the original draft laws (i.e. those which would lead to the repeal of the crime tout court). It is worth remembering that there is another rule in our system - I refer to the previous article of the penal code, Article 277 - that punishes those who are attentive to the freedom of the President of the Republic with the imprisonment from five to even fifteen years. However, this rule would remain a legitimate and reasonable guarantee of any activity aimed at limiting freedom, where, by freedom, obviously, it must be understood not only that of the President, but any conduct that might interfere with the free determination of his role as Head of State. The text of the law, as just explained, is very simple. It constitutes an article and is the result of a majority will of the Commission Justice, which approved this text not unanimously. Obviously, as a rapporteur belonging to the 5 Star Movement, which is one of the two political formations that has proposed draft laws aimed at repealing, my personal opinion remains that of the desirability of a total repeal. However, as rapporteur for the Committee on Justice, I must consistently set out what is the mandate given to me by the Commission, which, by a majority, has resolved and voted in favour of the text I have just presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u33	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, today we are talking about a crime introduced, in its current wording, by the Code Rocco of 1930 as a crime against the personality of the State. It is, therefore, a legacy of the fascist period. During the twenty-year period, the figure of the King and Mussolini was protected from the crime of majesty. Since the post-war period, the President of the Republic has, of course, been protected. It appears to be a mere crime of opinion, therefore contrary to the freedom of manifestation of thought and, moreover, of not easy determination. Vilipendio is, in fact, a term that can enclose any option: judgment, assessments considered more or less offensive. What and how serious must be the offence against the Head of State to believe that the crime is actually committed? Remember - for example - the insane practice of using low cost flights and then asking for reimbursements at full rate configures the crime of cowardice? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I mean, given this article in the penal code, who can be said to be safe from a possible complaint for criticism of the Head of State? In order to frame the ratio of this crime, it may be useful to remember that the next article of the penal code, Article 279, even provides that "Whoever, publicly, raises to the President of the Republic the reproach or responsibility for the acts of the Government is punished with imprisonment." Of course, it is an article repealed in 2006, with the reform of opinion crimes. In 2006, many prison sanctions, already applied for crimes of cowardice, were replaced by financial penalties. However, Article 278 of the Criminal Code seems to have been forgotten by this reform. Now, we believe that we must take note of the indications given by the former President of the Republic, who declared himself in favour of repealing this crime. I recall that in 2009, the Head of State invited anyone who had the right to exercise the legislative initiative to propose the repeal of Article 278 of the Criminal Code. On that occasion - on the occasion of the Information Day - he also added: Then let the citizens judge what is freedom of criticism and what is not. Of course, those who were now entitled to exercise the legislative initiative did not take advantage of it, confirming that they were more realistic than the King. A large slice of doctrine includes the crime of cowardice to the Head of State among the crimes of opinion; crimes that, if they certainly had a logic in fascist Italy, find their place much more difficult in the 21st century. I would remind you that our legal system already provides for sufficient protection of honour. I am thinking of the rules which protect all citizens, for example in the event of slander or slander. The President of the Republic will certainly be the first among the citizens, but still a citizen remains. Why, then, should it be more equal than others before the law? We have long presented a bill that provides for the repeal of the crime of cowardice to the Head of State, then accompanied by other substantially identical bills. The issue, from our point of view, could therefore be dealt with and voted on by Parliament in a very short time. On the other hand, we were able in the Commission to complicate a procedure which could have ended with a simple 'yes' or 'no' at the time of the repeal of Article 278 of the Criminal Code. The solution left by the Commission does not provide for the repeal of the crime, but for its conversion into another crime, which is certainly objectively minor, but which essentially keeps the case of vileness at the Head of State alive. The text, in fact, transforms the prison into a pecuniary sanction from 5,000 to 20,000 euros, but maintaining the prison sentence up to a maximum of two years in case the offence to the Head of State is related to a specific case and is not generic. This text, although timidly going in the expected direction, cannot be considered entirely satisfactory. The 5 Star Movement strongly supports the need to achieve an abolition of the crime of cowardice, as we are opposed to the prediction of crimes of opinion in our system, all the more so if the crimes of opinion are committed against those who represent political power. On the contrary, we must strongly support the principle that the freedom to speak ill of those in power must always be protected. To talk about it well, in fact, I remember that there are already countless hosts of courtiers well placed within the institutions and the main media. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] In countries more liberal than ours this concept is never questioned by anyone, except unfortunately by us. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u35	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u36	Mr President, we are talking about a bill which may appear to be very simple and slim. In fact, we are talking about an institute that, according to some, is a sort of legacy of the fascist period, forgetting however that the code Rocco on this subject had taken over the code Zanardelli. In some ways, we should balance the opposite interests: on the one hand, that of respect for the institutions and, on the other hand, the problem - which has actually emerged almost immediately, with the advent of the Republic and our Constitution - of everything concerning freedom of opinion. On this point, the crime of cowardice of the President of the Republic raises questions, that is, whether or not one should understand as a free manifestation of thought what is directed towards a high institutional office such as that of the President of the Republic. There are certainly doubtful profiles in the current configuration of the crime: think, for example, how indeterminate the same constituent elements can be, since sometimes it is not possible to understand whether, for a particular case, there is an offense to the reputation: let us remember the question relating to the famous word "unworthy", so we wondered whether the use of this term can be considered highly offensive or not. In some ways, conducts are being punished regardless of their suitability to cause certain consequences. On this point we have not tabled any amendments, but we would like to point out that, alongside the vilipendio of the President of the Republic, there are other hypotheses of vilipendio, such as the vilipendio to the flag. We would like to remind the House in this context that there is a flag that has more than a thousand years of history, which has been humiliated and vile by the State for over a hundred and fifty years. But on May 31 the Venetians wanted, with their vote, to proudly raise this flag: the flag of Veneto! (The Senators of the LN-Aut Group perform T-shirts with the inscription "Select Zaia" and a flag with the lion of San Marco). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, colleagues. I would ask Parliament's assistants to speak. Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u37	Mr President, I am particularly pleased that you can follow my speech, because you will still remember, as many people have it, that several months ago it was the President of the Senate, Pietro Grasso, who prevented me from saying the name of the ineffable in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u38	I think I've done well, in your interest.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u39	MORRA (M5S). You are rightly free to think what you want and I am not offended by everything you can think of, but as you understand from the rest of the intervention that took place on that occasion, I was simply going to quote words of Giorgio Napolitano. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is a preventive activity, which is sometimes better than repression. MORRA (M5S). Preventive censorship is nice! I'm glad we're talking about preventive censorship. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Preventive activity. MORRA (M5S). It is right for Italians to know that before even performing an act, the authority intervenes to sanction you and prevent you from committing a crime. All this is beautiful and frankly makes it even more clear how important the distance between my idea of democracy and respect for the freedom of others and the ideas that, of course, others have. With regard to all this, in addition to reminding us that the crime of cowardice, which should be abolished, but which is not abolished, is a crime of opinion, I would also like to propose to the whole of the House - and also to you, President - to think of sharing a bill that I will shortly deposit, if I can, on the introduction of a new crime: the offence of repeated flattery, frequent and servile. If it is true that the cowardice must still be considered a crime, no matter how much it comes to detention only if it is not generally expressed, it is equally true that those who make camouflage of the truth, who, that is, flatter in a servile way, who continually modify the truth in order to incense the powerful in turn - and many in this House are right in carrying out certain tasks - well, even those who do this should be called to a duty, which is ethical [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , as much as you of ethics are somewhat waterproofed with respect to certain calls that may be Kantian, Platonic; but you are refractory to certain truths. I would simply ask you to consider whether, even today, during the 21st century, it is appropriate to keep a crime alive which is still a crime of opinion. At this point we introduce the speculative crime, the flattery crime, and in here several may have problems. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u41	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u44	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since we have a number of amendments to consider, I would like to propose to my colleagues - I apologise for not having had time to consult the Group presidents - that they do so tomorrow morning, at the same time as the explanations of vote and the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u45	As no comments are made, so it remains established. I therefore refer you to the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in other session. BULGARRELLI (M5S). What if someone wanted to say something? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Nobody asked to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u46	I would like to say that since the Conference of Leaders is convened tomorrow at 9 a.m., the afternoon sitting will begin at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u47	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-03-LEG17-Senato-sed-458.ana.u48	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 4 June, in two public sessions, the first at 10 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 6 p.m.
