ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u4	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask you to check the audio system, because from here you feel terrible: you cannot hear the Senator Secretary's words. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you. I hope this is not your personal hearing problem, because I have even seen applause from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u7	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u8	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. Colleagues, I invite you to take your seats, because just last night we appreciated the circumstances. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I am suspending the sitting until 9:56 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.36 a.m. and resumed at 9.56 a.m.) Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u9	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is not supported.) Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the time limit of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:57 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u13	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1577.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u16	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, before I begin my explanation of vote, I would like to thank the members of the Commission. I also want to thank my colleague Pagliari, and apologise to him if I have had some bad weather from time to time. I believe, however, that we have both put what we could do to improve the measure, and I also know that it was not an easy measure. I would also like to thank the Offices, which have had their part to play with this measure, like the President of the Commission. As for the relationship with the government, we tried to have a conversation. I would like to thank the Minister for his participation and the Undersecretary, Mr Rughetti, who wanted to make a full contribution. I do not know whether I should only address the House or the Government, but since its representatives are willing to speak with one another, I will only address the House. Mr President, we believe that a great opportunity has basically been missed. The Senate has tried to make a serious contribution to what could have been a true reform of the public administration and which, in fact, turns into a very large, encyclopedic delegation. So the Minister will not be able to say: "The reform has passed," because a delegation has passed in which the Government will inevitably have to do a specific job - hoping that it will do it well - in order to try to implement this encyclopedic delegation, which within it, contrary to what is expected, contains very few guiding criteria. So it's all delegated: we totally delegate the Government, giving it a blank card to intervene on everything that's foreseen in that miscarriage of provision. I have sometimes stimulated Undersecretary Rughetti, since I know his personal history, and I believe that if we were outside this House, perhaps I should agree with him on some issues, but perhaps he should also give it to me on others, because he knows what I am talking about. I must say that I was also puzzled by the attitude of the Government because I found, not from the opposition but from the whole of the House, the desire to make a contribution on a subject that is essential not for the life of the parliamentarians but for many who work in the public administration and in an absolute way for all citizens. This comparison was missed, or rather, attempted but the answer was weak. I believe that this, unfortunately, is part of a culture of government, in this case of the Renzi Government, which considers Parliament somewhat like a burden, sometimes almost an enemy, whose suggestions must not be collected. I say this from the opposition, but I also look with personal sympathy at many colleagues in the majority. Yesterday I followed the measure carefully and I saw many of the amendments tabled by my colleagues in the majority, which were absolutely important because they specified the criteria for certain parts of the measure. I would like to point out to my colleagues that, although they were withdrawn from the Chamber, out of esteem for the people, by the opposition, no one took them upon themselves by asking for their vote. I have seen highly esteemed colleagues vote against their amendments, and they were not political amendments but tabled by people who know very well the machine on which they wanted to intervene. I remember Senator Mucchetti, whom I know and esteem for competence and ability; my friend Sangalli, who intervened on the chambers of commerce. This attitude responds to the renzism, not his, Undersecretary, and probably not even of the Minister, who has a political culture different from that of Renzi, who I do not think is even center-left but a stuff put there to do something else later. The history of blackmailing Parliament, of scraping, of 1,000 euro dinners, with those who may then be given motorway concessions, I think little corresponds to the Minister's political culture. Certainly there are things that make us perplexed. We would have liked to contribute together to giving strong specifications for this delegation. We were particularly impressed by an element that is symptomatic of the government's attitude and that sums up its policy on the Forest Guard and its history. Here is a title that recalls the spending review. Well, with the spending review, in this case, we cancel an important story and a very important contemporary reality: what was the need, even if there was a saving - that however there will not be - of a few million euros, to cancel the Forest Guard, diluted it, even in this case without clarity (because in the delegation there is not written as it will be), within another police force? But how? As Mr Arrigoni has well explained and as other colleagues have said, at a time when we are experiencing resounding emergencies in the territory with respect to the environment and after these people have worked not only with skill and skill, but also with what is needed, which are not only technological tools, but also the historical memories of people, how can we say that all this is not necessary? Let's save a few million, let's loosen everything and make a gift, probably, to the eco-afies, in the name of the spending review. What spending review are we talking about? Of the same spending review for which we intervene on the figure of municipal secretaries, which we also do not love. But you choose whether the municipal secretaries should be there or not; if they are not there, you cannot forcefully relocate them, forcing local authorities to acquire them as managers. In fact, one cannot nor mortify the personal history of those who perform important functions in the public administration, let alone oblige the mayors to take executives without having the capacity to do so. Mr. Undersecretary, I think this debate is also a little old. Should the administrator's responsibility go from a real spoil system, and hence from a serious responsibility for his choices in the implementation of the policies he wants to make, or should the third official be found? If you have to find a third party, well come and be that (even if we do not like it very much), have that role and that function of control, verification and support, but if the administrator has to choose an executive (and does it with his responsibility as administrator), allow him to choose it and not among the former municipal secretaries. I find this really an ugly, very centralist imposition, the result of an ancient and a little 'nineteenth century, that does not deviate from the messy reorder (sorry the play of words) of prefectures: let's reduce, but let's make the derogation, we talked about areas, territories, subterritories and emergencies. But then let's do something different: we eliminate prefectures and identify in a different way the responsibility of the government's switch on the territory in the face of certain situations. I see the light flashes on the microphone, so I should be out of time by now. As far as public services are concerned, as I said yesterday, we are giving the Government an enormous economy of the territory, and we are giving it with a blank delegation. Many people here today will have to return in a few years or perhaps in a few months on their territory and they will have to justify what the Government will have chosen to do. For these reasons, we are unable to vote in favour, because it would be a vote of confidence and, in this case, it is such a broad trust that the responsibility must lie solely with the Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u19	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Mr President, I speak instead of Senator Giovanni Mauro, who had dealt with the subject, but who was called by party duties. We are, in fact, in the period prior to the formation and delivery of the lists and I, in the organization of the work, as you will testify, have pointed out this aspect several times at the Conference of the Leaders, but there seems to be an absolute distraction in this regard. The offices have prepared a speech for me which, with the permission of the President, I will hand over so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. If I may, I would like to make a discussion based on principles, which Mr. Undersecretaries and Professor Pagliari certainly know much better than I do, about the science of the organization, with reference to the public administration. It is a modern science, because it preludes to what in history is identified as the modern age and the Napoleonic reform of the French State, which sought to transfer responsibility and power - and the marriage between responsibility and power - from the noble class to an office, which was chosen by the noble power - which at this point gave a political indication - by expelling the nobility qualification to political responsibility. The attempt of the science of the organization is to combine power with responsibility, in the sense that power, in order to be identified as such, needs certain responsibilities to be addressed to it, and that responsibility, in order to be exercised, needs a power that exercises it, so much so that we often talk about responsible power or powerful responsibility. A modern state is a state in which there is a responsible power and there are powerful responsibilities. In Italy, however, there is a vice of origin, deriving from the attempt to transform according to the Napoleonic addresses of the Sabaudo State. After the Unity of Italy it had in fact an organization of Napoleonic type, but it had to face the difficulties in the organization of a State in which several languages were spoken and there were different habits Professor Cassese, in his book, exemplifies it by citing a use that exists only in Italy, that of the morning between the commissioner and perfect. Ours is the only state organization in which it is ruled that the prefect, that is the representative of the government, must feel daily with the quaestor, who is the representative of the police organization. This is due to the mistrust of the central state, which was being organized in the local reality and which therefore had to be entrusted to a local leadership: for a police organization it is necessary to know the places. Hence the need to start an organization of Napoleonic type, moving from an ex ante responsibility to an ex post responsibility: this exists only in Italy. The examples are many: in the post-war organisation ex ante responsibility is found in the famous regional control committees (CORECO) or in all those control organizations by the State on the points of local responsibility. We are beginning to strive for a better and more efficient state organization with the Bassanini reform, according to which we must better identify power and, at this point, give power its responsibilities. So you eliminate the KORECO, to give the power responsibility. The Bassanini reform fails, however, in two fundamental points: in the fact that there is no effort for the qualification of power and, at the same time, there is no identification of responsibility and therefore the administrative space in which to impose the sanction. Without sanction there is in fact no identification of responsibility, which at this point ceases to be powerful and hence the failure and what, with a commonplace, is identified as the disaster of the Italian bureaucracy. But bureaucracy is the central point of the organization of a state, which does not live without a bureaucracy, that is, without identifying the apical office, the bureau, which has the responsibility. The problem is that we are gradually moving from bureaucracy to adhocracy, which in the science of administration is almost defined as a non-organisation. In the adhocracy there are organizational spaces that must be organised, taking into account each time the product to be formed. For example, in a jewelry store, where the product changes continuously, there is no bureaucracy, but an adhocracy, because the individual artisans compare according to the product, changing their responsibilities and aspects related to production, depending on whether something is being produced that has more brighter and less gold or vice versa, or that has more gold and less silver or vice versa. But adhocracy, which is defined by the science of administration almost as a non-organization, is the negation of the organization. Allow me the government and the exquisite rapporteur: the philosophy behind the measure is almost an adhocracy and not a science of bureaucracy. This is because the necessary training is not provided either in the State, or in the Government and therefore training poverty is widespread and not the exaltation or the search for exaltation. One of the actions to be taken, in fact, which was the identification of the margins for improving the quality of the bureaucracy, is neither done nor thought out. That is why the measure before us, which favours bureaucracy and not the exaltation of bureaucracy, becomes demagogic and non-democratic. At this point, I will be forced to vote no, because by voting no I will vote not against bureaucracy but against demagogy and therefore in favour of democracy. [[Applause from Senator Alicata]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u20	The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the full text of your explanation of vote, which will be published in the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u23	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, as a Group for Autonomies we agree that public administration reform is considered by the Government as one of the strategic objectives for our economic and productive system, for citizens' rights and also for simplification and transparency. Like institutional and constitutional reforms, and the announced tax and labour reforms, public administration reform is part of that reform process that the country, citizens and businesses have been waiting for for a long time. The lack of reforms in recent years, or even decades, have led, in fact, to a reduction of competitiveness for our production system, a negative condition for investments in Italy and also a denial of rights for citizens. It is therefore essential to introduce organisational criteria and to evaluate the performance of public offices and public management with the planned establishment of the public management system, as well as assessments based on the principle of merit, updating and continuing training that stands out for the full mobility between roles. The simplified procedures related to the provision of digital services to citizens and to the advertising and transparency of information, the reorganisation of the service conference, the new rules relating to the silence of public administrations and the certified reporting of new business activities meet the criteria of transparency and efficiency. They are content reformers who in a comprehensive way outline a more efficient structural organisation of public administration and effective simplification of legislation, among which we believe are the revision and simplification of provisions on the prevention of corruption, according to guidelines that represent a strengthening of them. From this point of view, we also consider the planned legislative decrees of simplification in relation to work in the hands of public administrations and corporate participations to be consistent. The new reorganization of the administration of the State, which substantially changes the discipline of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, the Ministries and the Agencies, requires a legislative process and the definition of the implementing decrees which have urgent times and which we hope and hope will take place shortly. We are pleased that some proposals of the Autonomous Group have also been accepted, guaranteeing the competences of the special self-employed in the field of public employment, within which the Special Regions have been lawmaking for more than fifty years, and of course bearing all the expenses of their staff. We consider it important, in this respect, that the powers of the regional and provincial forest bodies have been guaranteed, which are fully borne by the special self-governments without any additional burden on the State. In this way we have managed not only to safeguard the provisions of the statutes of the Autonomous Regions but also to guarantee, for the future, important savings for the State. It would have made no sense for other state forces to have the task of protecting and supervising forests if there were already forest guards and there would be no point in adding other forces which would then exercise the same prerogatives. We also consider it important that the chambers of commerce remain in the Trentino-Alto Adige Region, where they must necessarily be two, because only the one in Bolzano is able to guarantee the right to bilingualism, since the register of companies known to be written in two languages and it would not be possible to achieve this objective by combining that chamber of commerce with other larger ones. For these reasons, the Group for Autonomies-PSI-MAIE will vote in favour of the draft law under consideration. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u26	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we come to the conclusion of the final vote on a draft delegation law which has been discussed a long time in the Commission and to which, as has also been seen in the debate here in this House, we have tried to make our contribution, as always, through our amendments, in order to avoid the most serious harmful effects of this delegation. It is clear that the reform of public administration is an ambitious and absolutely important objective that the Government has rightly set itself, which should first of all have the aim of giving greater functionality and greater efficiency to the whole machine of the State and the public administration, always in the general interest of serving the country better, of giving a chance to its development and its recovery, decisive fact, and above all of offering efficient services to citizens. Here, this should have been the fundamental aim of the reorganization of public administrations, in fact, has once again turned into a virtually blank delegation to the Government and our attempts to improve were also in vain, if not excluding a small part of it. Already in the question of constitutionality we had highlighted the indeterminateness, in some cases, or the hyper-particularity, in others, of the guiding principles and criteria, because of what we believe is an excessive departure from the criteria laid down in Article 76 of the Constitution. I would also like to focus once again on a number of points which I consider particularly serious in this delegation, which, among other things (I would like to remind you here), is always a draft law linked to the financial maneuver. First of all, there is an issue that I particularly care about (on which not only did not want to reason, but also did not want to accept a series of improvements, rather accepting some worsening in the Chamber), with reference to the conference of services and silence-consent. I am therefore focusing on this aspect, because all the issues that have to do with the protection of the environment, the territory, cultural heritage and the landscape, as provided for in our Constitution in Article 9, are one of the aims of good administration, because the State must protect its main heritage. With the final result of the transformation of the services conferences and the introduction for the first time (after so many attempts, fortunately blocked), of the possibility that it triggers the silence-acceptance for the administrations responsible for the protection of the territory, health and the environment. With the introduction of silence-consent and yet another reorganisation of the Conference of Services - in our opinion fundamental as regards the respect of Article 9 of the Constitution and the pursuit of what should be one of the main objectives related to the reorganization of the public administration, that is to say the protection of our greatest assets - the results are absolutely negative and indeed bad. It is very regrettable that improvements were not even wanted on these points; on the contrary - I repeat - amendments were adopted which further aggravated the mechanism of the Conference of Services, including in terms of participation. The problem of machine efficiency concerns the meeting with citizens and the services to be given to citizens who, then, should also be involved in decisions. The whole part concerning the possibility of participation - discussion - with the committees and with the associations has not been taken into account at all. I would like to mention, again, Article 7 of this measure - which obviously relates to Articles 2 and 3 - and, therefore, to the issue of environmental protection and, in particular, to the case of the State Forestry Corps. It is clear that the broad debate we have had, together with the amendments we have tabled, has helped to make a small step forward, guaranteeing at least unity, through absorption within a police force. However, the fact remains, for us absolutely disconcerting, that it has ended up in fact endangering a job and a specialization that the Forestry Corps has acquired over the years. We will shortly be discussing in this House a motion on the promotion of culture against animal abuse, tabled by me and many other colleagues, including Senator Amati. I would like to ask the Government who will then, in the end, be able to suppress animal abuse and poaching. Who will be responsible for the protection of biodiversity? We have many doubts about the possibility that this specialization will be maintained, that the garrison will be guaranteed on the territory and the war on the ecocomaphies. So we continue to be not only very critical, but definitely opposed to the police's intended articulation. From this point of view we had to do a much more serious job - I have said it fifty times - since there are overlaps between our police forces; we had to have courage, while you were strong with the weak, with the smaller Body, and weak with the strong: you did not want to face the real knot, that is to say the reorder and systematization for greater efficiency of all the police bodies. You have not had the courage to address even the issue of the single number to call, which exists practically throughout Europe. In fact, with this delegation, the reorganization of the public administration ends up being a very vertical reorganization, especially with regard to the management of the offices, and this concerns us very much, because the pyramid should be on the contrary, i.e. the function of the citizens to whom the services are provided. With this delegation we are faced with a very high verticalisation, particularly towards the President-in-Office of the Council, but it is not always said that centralisation is confirmed as a good practice to ensure the efficiency of public administration. Not only that, but also with regard to the single role (on which, in fact, we could certainly do a very interesting job with regard to the reordering of the management mechanism), we always seem to contradict the intentions that the Minister also wanted to reiterate yesterday in this House: I am referring to the separation that should exist between the administration, the leadership and the political bodies. Frankly, it does not seem to us that this principle is exactly maintained in what is the result of the delegation. As for the third party of the public administration, I personally have gained, over time, a conviction and also the strong opposition, for example, to the spoils system, to all this mechanism that has weakened and canceled the mechanism of the third party. On the contrary, an efficient state and efficient public administrations must regain this third-party status. For this reason, we were opposed to the choice made on municipal secretaries. On the other hand, in this matter, we had to do an opposite operation, which was to take away from the mayors the possibility of choice that had been introduced within the register, giving back, for example, the control of legitimacy and legality, especially at a time like this, if we really want to fight for transparency, against corruption and, above all, for efficiency. I think we should do this type of operation: do not eliminate them, but - I repeat - do a completely different operation. I shall conclude, Mr President, on the reordering of local public services. We presented the proposal for a deletion because I think that this issue needed not to be included in a delegation, thus giving the government a blank power. The issue had to be the subject of a thorough discussion, in which the legislative power could not deprive itself of its functions in order to delegate them to the Commission. The big, I can't even say regret, but bewildered, is the following. I am shocked that, after the long debate in the Commission and even yesterday, it was absolutely not intended to take note that there was a referendum and that water, as I believe Minister Madia has also written somewhere (we will go back to the documents), is not a commodity. Water is a common good: this is what the referendum is about. You, in this delegation, as part of the reordering of local public services, had a duty to reiterate what the citizens - millions of citizens - have said. For these reasons, we can only vote against this draft law of delegation. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u27	I greet the students and teachers of the State Institute of Higher Education (Enrico Mattei) from Cerveteri, in the province of Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u30	AUGELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have carried out our work in an atmosphere which has not done justice, neither to the efforts of the Minister, his collaborators, the Commission and the rapporteur, nor to the delicacy of the subject that was being addressed. Unfortunately, Minister, we have had the misfortune to cross over this matter of trust in the House on electoral law, which has not helped, even on a communicative level, to make the country understand what we were doing in this House. On the other hand, the work of this House has also been very affected by this climate. It has been days - the other day, for example - when big words have been spoken in this House, even at the address of the majority, which the media have recorded and which has somewhat obscured our work. Big words and, among other things, even ingenuous, of colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, have even accused the government of fascism, which seems frankly excessive, also because the comparison with the Acerbo law serves as a defect of proparibility. The Acerbo law matured in the Albertine Statute and trust was put against oppositions. Instead, here we are in a situation where we have a Constitution of a free country and the extravagance that the media detects is that trust has been placed to solve problems in the majority. So, from this point of view, the situation that was determined did not help us to explain well what we were doing. From our point of view, the work that has been done to correct the initial approach and also to enhance some of its ideas has been important. I see a half-full glass in this delegation law which deals mainly with some of the interventions that are being made in the reform of the management, which concerns qualifying compromise points that we have managed to achieve with the help of the opposition and also of the group of the People's Area of the New Right Centre to which I belong, which has led us to find a point of fall relatively shared by the Commission both with regard to municipal secretaries and with regard to the very sensitive matter of the reform of the Chambers of Commerce. These are all points on which we feel we can express a certain degree of satisfaction on the basis of this work. However, there is something that we believe is still missing in this measure and that we hope that, especially at second reading and at a later stage of discussion by the Government, even in the light of the debate that has emerged in this House and in the Commission, it will be improved. I believe that our main reason for dissatisfaction at the moment is a certain lack of determination to delegate to the final destinies of the Forestry Police Corps. I'm trying to explain myself. Our position is not to maintain at all costs the existence of this Body, but our concern - certainly shared by the rapporteur and the Minister - is that a Body that is in all respects our Environmental Police Corps, which is a flagship from the point of view of the ability to intervene on environmental problems, pouring into the Police Corps of the State or the Carabinieri, after a period in which there has been the blockade of recruitment and therefore there are many roles discovered and many holes to plug in these Bodies, is dismembered and causes to lose professionalism and specificity to one of our pride from the point of view of the ability to intervene on environmental issues. I believe that the expression contained in the letter of the measure, which explicitly speaks of maintaining its unity, remains rather indeterminate administratively, in the sense that it is not clear what this unity is and this should to some extent, if possible, be improved. We will have agendas that will help us in this respect, but I believe that at second reading this concept of unity must necessarily be combined with an administrative projection of the sense of unity, which in my opinion can only be at least a specific direction of the State Police. This is important because we must clear the field from the idea that this delegation that we have given with the reform of the police bodies ends with being almost a communicative pretext. In the debate outside also authoritative commentators have expressed themselves in this sense on national newspapers: to suppress the forest police alone does not solve almost any of the problems of duplication between the various Italian police bodies and from this point of view risks being a kind of fetish that is launched to the public from the point of view of communication. I know that's not the case, but we have to keep it from looking that way. And so, from this point of view, in my view, we must work to improve this text, which we will of course vote on because we know that at first reading we did and did everything possible, but we are still not satisfied with this wording and we hope that in the course of the action we can achieve a profound improvement. Finally, one last question remains: it is clear that this measure cannot be included - and we all know this - in the beehive of the so-called major reforms: it is a delegated law that allows the development of certain issues on which previous governments have also intervened, it serves to rationalise some frameworks, to simplify certain situations. However, the theme of the second wave remains unresolved. After a series of reforms have put efficiency at the heart of the priorities that must be pursued by the public administration, in my opinion it is necessary - but this can only happen when the contract season is unblocked - a second wave that produces results of efficiency and not simply of presence or disciplinary pursuit of absenteeism, a real efficiency that makes a reform a real element of modernization of the public administration. From this point of view, however, it is important to understand that, if we do not manage to restart contracts, it will be difficult to expect and achieve this level of efficiency. However, I believe that, overall, the work we have done is moving in this direction; there are many more to be done, there is still a long way to go and the government will have to take this into account in the planning of subsequent legislative interventions and subsequent reforms. Our vote will therefore be in favour, with the reservations I have said, but I do not think it would be right to conclude this speech without taking into account the role played by this House and, in particular, by the rapporteur. Among other things, Mr Pagliari we knew him as a person of granite personality, but granite is not a great element to make the rapporteur of such a measure: instead he was able, with great flexibility, to sew a consensus necessarily broad around this measure at the end, and of this we must give him credit. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u33	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, citizens who are listening to us, I believe that what you are about to vote is one of the biggest It is a white delegation to reform the public administration, which is the backbone of this country: any act, anything, any legislative or other action must pass from a public administration. What are we gonna do? We give a proxy to the government pro tempore, which today is this and tomorrow will be another (who knows?), to do practically what he wants, with a very large delegation, in which criteria and directives are at the discretion of the same Government that will have to make the decrees. All in violation of the Constitution. It's a camouflage operation, since the government really likes this operation. A real camouflage will also be there tomorrow, with another of the biggest failures of this country, that is the Expo that is inaugurated in half. Also in that case a camouflage operation, a smokescreen to hide a failure and bring false results, such as the fake result of Italicum, imposed with a fascist method, even if the colleague first reiterated the distance that must be taken between the two phenomena, and he is right: perhaps here we are beyond; what the Democratic Party did to the House goes far beyond fascism. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I believe that the fascists are turning in the grave to feel like compared to what those of the PD did to the House yesterday and today. But let us come to the content of this provision. I would like to focus on a few important points. First of all, there is an initial part in which we talk about digitization of public administration, speeding up procedures and everything else, but also in that case it is empty words, which then have no real application. These are the usual words that are written in the laws to design who knows what digitization that then confronts with the difficulties of everyday public administration, of the peripheral offices that have no resources instrumental, human and economic in order to give the services to the citizens. All forms of participation, such as the Conference of Services, have been virtually abolished, reducing the appeal, speeding up this instrument that still today allowed perhaps to intervene, with some territorial area, with some committees, with some local communities to block the great works that the Government imposes on small municipalities and areas that are today devastated from North to South. Then we see the results with the bridges that collapse after they were built. And so we have acted on silence-consent, on the conference of services and with the abolition of the Forestry Corps. This has been one of the points on which we have discussed most in this House, because we did not understand why, in the context of this measure which dealt with all matters, at some point such a specific measure had appeared aimed at striking the State Forestry Corps with its amalgamation in other police bodies. The Forest Corps of the State, with the exception of the regional bodies of the Regions with special statutes that have obtained a safeguard, was chosen exclusively for its number (8,000 units), which therefore made it easy to introduce it into another police force, leaving in the end the mediation consisting in the unity of the Body. Let's not make fun of each other. What does that mean? At this point there are two hypotheses: either it is dismembered, as unfortunately we imagine it will be, or it will be maintained unity and this will mean that there will be a department within the State Police that will be called the Forest Police, Police Forest (I don't know, let's call it in any way), but we will simply have changed the uniforms and colored the cars. There will probably be an additional cost instead of a saving. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Why do you hit the Forest? Why are we intervening in forestry? Also in that case maybe there will be a Freudian research on the child mayor PD Renzi and look for a subject, someone who did something to him when he was a small mayor and put the stick between his wheels on something. We haven't found him yet, but I'm sure he'll come out sooner or later. The same applies to municipal secretaries. Also in that case we have the abolition of a figure, of a garrison of legality. The municipal secretary should ensure that the mayor does not violate the law, should be the one who enforces the legality within the municipality, the notary of the municipality. Today it is an independent figure: although chosen by the mayor, it is chosen within a register on which the mayor has no power to intervene, except to identify the best municipal secretary who can be on the square for its municipality, according to certain characteristics. Then consider the professionalism acquired by those municipal secretaries, who also have inside the bands, who have access to the function of municipal secretary in the great municipalities. For the latter the figure of the municipal secretary will no longer be foreseen, but the mayor will be given the option to choose independently who will have to perform the apical function, even outside of this role. In this case we believe that mayor Renzi, when he was mayor, perhaps had a negative experience with municipal secretaries: perhaps they put the poles in his wheel, maybe they prevented him from doing what he is doing as President of the Council and today comes revenge. This, in fact, is what we have before us: a person who, besides being a liar, is also vindictive towards those who put the sticks in his wheel, as he is doing with the PD minority. Minority in a manner of speaking, because yesterday its representatives demonstrated all their courage by voting on the scum of Italicum. Then there is the theme of leadership: all the leadership of the public administration will be included in a single role, in which we will find a bit of everything. I would like to understand what will happen when some specialised management of certain sectors of the public administration begins to fail and other experience will have to be used. I believe that there will be some difficulties, but we will see it at work, then the citizens will see the results in the functioning of the services. Then there are the articles on public services and the participants, which represent perhaps the most profitable sector in this country, the one that constituted the armchair par excellence, the sector where corruption lurks. That sector today is left in the hands of the Government (I repeat: today this and tomorrow another) with a blank delegation also in that case, without any governing criteria, without any principle, also in violation of referendums that in 2005 have declared that water services will always have to be public and did not want to introduce this principle in a clear way, so that no one can go in different direction, whether this or a future government, in violation of the referendum result. Again, it is a blank delegation to the Government. And let's not talk about the last article, the one concerning the delegation in white to the Government, to modify or repeal those laws that required it to make the implementing decrees. This is precisely the apotheosis of a parliament abdicating to the government. In the coming months, the Government will be able to abolish laws independently, without any control, with a non-binding opinion from Parliament. On those laws that the government has not implemented, it will be able to say that it no longer wants to do them. This delegation law also, then, remains deprived of any legislative power, at a time when the same Government on it can, in theory, make changes in the 12 months of existence of the delegation. In theory, on this same delegation the government can repeal or modify tomorrow, if it considers that the conditions no longer exist. Let's see what we're doing here. We are passing a delegation law that contains, within it, the power of the Government to modify it autonomously in the next 12 days: this and the precedents! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The only thing that consoles me, Mr President, is that the approval times will be long, because this is such a wide cauldron that the debate will also be wide in the House and perhaps again in the Senate. Then there will be the time for the implementation of this delegation law, the twelve months. And maybe there will be no more this government, but a different one, the 5 Star Movement Government, which will turn against you. Remember that! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u36	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the final stage of the legislative process on public administration reform, which, although presented by the Government as one of the qualifying policies of its agenda, once again revolves around the problems of public administrations without pursuing the objectives announced, and above all that of really affecting the reduction of the burden of bureaucracy. With regard to the criticalities of the public administration, in fact, both the data of the global economic forum on the capacity to manage public resources - see Italy in 139th place on a sample of 144 countries of reference - and those of the CGIA of Mestre on the relationships with the enterprises in the euro area - see us in 15th place on the 17 Countries of reference - speak eloquently of a system that costs to the small and medium enterprises almost 31 billion euros per year, about 7,000 euros for each of them. This reform, created as a delegation to the Government, then requires, of course, implementing decrees to fully produce its effects, and all this does not go in the right direction. Forza Italia can only vote against the measure, because it is in the nature of the party to favour, protect and protect the producing companies, through the construction of a more streamlined and efficient bureaucratic structure. We do not agree with the broad lines of the reform, because it does not show a real attempt to revise and reduce expenditure in public administrations, which should have been a priority for the government. Moreover, the impact of the reform on GDP differs, in the last Economic and Finance Document, from the October 2014 DEF Update Note. In fact, the Note states that the reform would favour growth with more than 0.1 percent of GDP in 2015 and more than 1% in 2020. Now the reference to 2015 has disappeared, so it is to be assumed that the reform will have no impact on growth in the short term, which clearly highlights the inadequacy of the reform itself. Then there are three critical aspects of particular importance that - in our opinion - deserved further study. The first concerns the Forest Corps. It would have been a serious mistake to suppress and disintegrate the Forest Corps. Our battle has favoured, however, the approval of an amendment with which we have preserved the unity of the Forestale that, while no longer constituting the fifth body of the Forces of Order, will be integrated into another police force, maintaining its functions and its specificity. The second aspect relates to the reordering of chambers of commerce. We do not entirely agree with the cuts in resources resulting from the reduction of the compulsory contribution from companies. In the face of modest savings for the latter, there is a serious and unjustified damage to the financial sustainability of the chambers of commerce, which endangers their real survival, with potential repercussions on employment levels. It was necessary to find substitute resources to ensure its smooth operation. Finally, we are not in favour of the rule which provides for the confluence of municipal secretaries in the unique role of managers. In fact, they will lose part of their function and professionalism, which is currently guaranteed by the specificity of their role. Therefore, for these reasons and others, Forza Italia will vote against this measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u39	COCIANCICH (PD). Mr President, today comes to an end the process of approving a central law for the future of our country, which involved Parliament in a great operation of listening to civil society, in the intellectually most active part, in trying to outline the future of Italy. I recall the many hearings on this subject and the wide-ranging debate in this House. In this respect, I feel it is necessary to thank the rapporteur first of all, who, in my opinion, has done a very patient and self-evident job of listening to everyone; the Presidency of the Commission, which has tried to give voice to the various parties and to make this measure a choral expression, and not just a part of Parliament; and finally, the Government, which has shown great willingness to listen and considerable capacity to change the measure, abandoning a closing position - there has never been - and allowing the measure itself to be modified in the course of the debate, in order to arrive today at a different draft from the one presented. It can therefore be said that Parliament has actually helped to draw up the new public administration that we want. Public administration is a fundamental resource for our country, for any country. Unfortunately, the term bureaucracy, today, is synonymous with something profoundly negative in the collective imagination. But the truth is, without bureaucracy, a country has no future. bureaucracy is the power of offices - as the etymology of the word says - but it is also the great resource without which there is no possibility of a private initiative, an involvement of citizens in the fate of their country. I therefore believe that this measure has the ambition to combine three major issues. The first concerns the relationship between politics and administration. In these times we have experienced a feeling of frustration. Many colleagues who have covered positions of directors at local level have been in a position of contrast between the political level, on the one hand, which aims to give flexible responses, efficiency in identifying and achieving the results of a political proposal quickly and, on the other hand, the action of the administration which, at times, has taken on the dimension of the legality of public action. This fact, rather than being a synergy, has been resolved in a contrast that has led to a paralysis of the system. The first major theme behind this reform, therefore, is precisely to try to overcome this opposition and move towards coexistence. I believe that good governance and politics go hand in hand with the impartiality of public administration. And I believe that many of the measures provided for in the measure go in that direction, and I will say what they are shortly. There must be a sharing and cooperation on the rules and values between politics and administration. When there is uncertainty about the boundaries and contents of these two responsibilities, then the decision-making process - of this we are talking about, that is, the ability to decide and transform our country according to our laws - becomes intransparent and ineffective. I believe that, with this reform, there will be a greater responsibility and there will be no more alibi, either on the part of politics or on the part of the administration, to justify the inefficiencies behind rigidities that today, on the other hand, fail. Mr President, I believe that this extremely complex reform can be explained by a few words which I consider to be key. The first words are "simplification" and "acceleration." From this point of view, all the provisions on the conference of services, which for so long represented the bottleneck of the decision-making and administrative process, are relevant. Important and important is the procedure of silence-consent, which is a revolution from the point of view of the administrative procedure. From now on it will be much easier, also for the declaration and reporting of start-up activities, to start entrepreneurial initiatives concerning the restructuring and the government of the territory by the owners and citizens, that is, those who have a simple property. This will certainly change the relationship between the citizen and the public administration. Today, the public administration hastens to place constraints and to challenge the need for authorisations and licenses every time... [[Brusio]] Mr President, I find it hard to hear my own voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u40	Please, I would like to call my colleagues back to the Chamber who continue to speak kindly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u41	COCIANCICH (PD). Thank you, President. I was saying that today there will also be an important simplification with regard to the start of simple activities by citizens, with the change of procedures, with regard to both silence and consent, and to the declaration of initiation of activities. The issue of simplification and acceleration will also be found in the times, which will be certain, of administrative action, and this (i.e. the visibility of what must be the procedural procedure from the administrative point of view) is as important as speed. There will be, therefore, certain times; there will be certainty of procedures and, above all, shorter procedures, shorter decision-making times. Simplification is reflected in all the rules on digitisation. This measure introduces a kind of digital citizenship and relations with public administration can be maintained with what, today, has become the main form of communication by our citizens, that is, the digital form. Communications and all interlocations with public administration will be easy and from home. I believe that this provision has a profound value also from the point of view of the democracy of our country. Today, in fact, the possibility of active and participatory citizenship risks being an affirmation of principle which, however, is not implemented in practice. As soon as this draft law is finally adopted, there will be a real possibility for citizens to speak, to make their voice heard and to intervene through extremely simplified instruments. A second keyword is the theme of reorganization. This measure is concerned with the reorganization of the chambers of commerce and peripheral territorial offices. In this connection, I would like to point out that we discussed yesterday, when we discussed an amendment, the alleged impossibility of providing services in a house, such as water. I believe that there is a misunderstanding, a misunderstanding: in fact, for local authorities it is still possible, even if not mandatory, to organize themselves as they think, even with the possibility of authorising or resorting through tenders to entrust services, such as water, which is a public good. There is also simplification on aspects that concern the lives of all citizens: I recall the single vehicle charter and the principle of interoperability between bodies, which today have only represented duplication of procedures. In the Commission we listened to representatives of the Public Car Register and those of the Automobile Club of Italy. I would also like to reiterate the great importance of the issue of local public services. A third key word, which seems important to me, is transparency. Mr President, from this point of view, Article 6 of the measure is also a great antidote to corruption, for the prevention of that real scourge which has also referred to us as parliamentarians. Transparency is the real antidote to corruption. It must be considered not only the repressive aspect, which is important, but also the possibility of being in a glass house, through which all citizens who are interested in it can see what the procedures and acts of public administration are. In this respect, I would also like to mention the right of access granted to Members of Parliament. During the examination of this measure, I heard very negative expressions about the reduction of Parliament's role, including the debate held yesterday in the House of Deputies. A gloomy painting of our political system is made. But this measure strengthens Parliament and gives Members a right of access to acts of public administration. I do not know with what courage we can really talk about a reduction in Parliament's role, if today we are instead recognizing a greater possibility and greater power to the Members themselves and also to the oppositions, which - I am sorry to say - are always incapable of referring to the merit of the problems and never stop intervening in offensive and personal terms. [[Comments from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from Senator Mangili]] MARTELLI (M5S). You're just incompetent! COCIANCICH (PD). This is a deteriorating aspect of our political debate and I think it is a very missed opportunity to focus on the substance of the issues. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Cociancich. COCIANCICH (PD). The last key word, Mr President, which I believe can sum up the many faces and faces of this important measure, is the issue of responsibility, on which we play the credibility of the country, that is, the ability to assume - both as politicians and as administrators - the responsibility of our powers in front of the citizens. And this measure has a profound impact on the issue of responsibility, intervening on the aspect of merit. It is absolutely not true what was said yesterday, that this measure undermines the principles of valorisation of merit, which also concern management responsibility. On the contrary, there is an evaluation of the simplest merit of the performances of public administrators and managers; a principle of continuous training, with the National School of Training; the establishment of a single role; the distinction of the bands and the short duration of the assignments, equal to six years, and this means that there will no longer be the possibility of having managers like Incalza, who remained in the same place for twenty years. From tomorrow there will be a principle of rotation and mobility. Then I add the selection through a competition course and the theme of the participating companies, which have often been a place of discharge of responsibility by those who, instead, had the task of taking responsibility for choices, sometimes difficult. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Cociancich, COCIANCICH (PD). In conclusion, Mr President, I believe that all these reasons, summed up very quickly, largely justify a full consensus by the Democratic Party Group on the draft law under consideration. Therefore, on behalf of the Group, I am voting in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, we salute the teachers and students of the Technical Trade Institute (Germano Sommeiller) in Turin, who are witnessing our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u43	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure of the bill, in the amended text, with the following title: "Delegations to the Government on the reorganisation of public administrations" with the warning that the Presidency will be deemed authorized to make any further changes to the formal coordination that may prove necessary. MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you, please, to have the cards removed from the benches of the absent senators. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I invite you to take your place because, if the person concerned is not present, the card is removed. I invite the secretary senators to withdraw the cards from the absent senator's desks. (Secretary Senators proceed to withdraw the cards from the absent senator's desks.) (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[v. Annex B. Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini]] He asked to speak the Minister for Simplification and Public Administration Madia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, I just thank you, because this is a reform for the country and not for the sector. And so, precisely because it affects the sectors, one could be afraid that it would become watered down in Parliament. That was not the case: Parliament has improved it since the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. There has been a democratic dialectic, with sometimes legitimately different positions of the opposition, but never obstructive. What I want to tell you is that on the only amendment that last night had a different majority from that recorded on hundreds of other amending proposals voted in this branch of Parliament, namely the one on small municipalities, the Government will make further in-depth discussion in the House. I recognize, in fact, that from each of you, from every senator and every senator, there was only the legitimate intention to improve a reform for 60 million residents in this country. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u47	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to thank the House, renew my thanks to the technical staff and apologise if, in my report, I had any personal or technical deficits, but it was a difficult job. [[Applause from the PD, AP (NCD-UDC) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups) and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u48	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00239 by Senator Taverna and other senators, 1-00258 (text 4), tabled by Senator Amati and other senators, 1-00267 by Senator Cirinna and other senators, and 1-00397 by Senator Fucksia and other senators, on the promotion of culture against the ill-treatment of animals. I call Senator Taverna to explain motion No 239. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, between kisses and hugs, we should proceed with our work. 11:39 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we return to a subject very dear to the 5 Star Movement, which concerns - in my opinion - beings more interesting than most of mankind: we are talking about animals, animal experimentation and the overcoming of this odious practice, which has seen for many years the suffering of so many animals, for a few fundamental results for the main purpose for which we are doing scientific research, namely human health. In fact, scientific criticism of animal experimentation cannot be superficially dismissed as mere animalism, although there are clear common goals. It is necessary to bear in mind this appropriate clarification, precisely because the main aim of scientific criticism is the protection of human health, another fundamental value and objective which must be balanced in the solution of this long-standing problem. One wonders, therefore, why, after centuries, a practice that has always been morally and ethically ill-digested, despite the often quite hypocritical proclamations, which sway the desire to see its definitive overcoming, is still indicated by a large part of the researchers as the only possible method to comply with the current regulations on health protection. I would like to give a few examples. First of all, let us remember that the predictive hypothesis of the animal model, as regards reactions to drugs and substances and human pathological processes, has never been incontrovertibly verified and is currently a discussed position. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] The use of the animal model did not contribute to the study of stroke: out of 51 sites of animal experiments conducted at three universities in Germany, 99.7 percent of the results of research on 5,000 animals were a priori inapplicable to the clinic and for the remaining 0.3 there was no application. The author concludes that the collective health benefits of animal testing are overestimated. The American National Cancer Institute (NCI) experimented on murine models with 12 types of anticancer drugs, successfully used in human patients (fewer than 48 human cancer diseases). In 63 percent of the cases the murine models were unable to predict the human response. 92 percent of successful animal test drugs do not go beyond the next clinical stages due to adverse effects and/or ineffectiveness. Animal models provide unreliable pharmacokinetic data. The toxicity studies are not predictive. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u50	Excuse me, Senator. I ask colleagues to lower their voices, because frankly it is difficult to listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u51	Please continue your intervention, Senator. TAVERNA (M5S). This little attention is a bit of a measure of how one approaches mankind, the individual, and the welfare of animals. Moreover, the measure on public administration has now been approved and, therefore, you have done your job. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] There are several alternative methods and alternatives to animal testing, and not all of them, unfortunately, have become mandatory. For example, until last December, to know if some molluscs were edible, mice were used: this test could not give constant results because it was subjective, depending on the animal, the operator's manual skills and the time of play. Today it has finally become mandatory in the countries of the European Union an alternative test, substitute, that uses advanced instruments that already existed for some time. So now we have high standards of safety for humans and we avoid the death of animals. Let's not forget the possibility of silicon testing, through computer simulation. These simulations can also be used to assess the carcinogenicity of substances. No obligation - at least for now - to replace fetal bovine serum, a fluid used to feed cell cultures of different species in in vitro experiments. The problem is that this fluid is obtained by taking blood from a cow fetus through a cardiac puncture, without anesthesia and with the conscious animal until death. I have a lot to say, but I swear to you, Mr President, that it is embarrassing to speak to a completely uninterested House. I would therefore just remind you of the demands we make on our motion, which we have also drawn up on the basis of the transposition of the European directive on this subject. They are trivial demands, but they would like to push our country to become a little more human and more attentive. There is the possibility of overcoming a shameful practice, which dates back to the Middle Ages, which has proved to be unreliable and does not serve man to improve. What we are asking for is that initiatives be strongly promoted to inform and disseminate alternative methods to animal testing, with the aim of progressively abandoning the use of animals for scientific purposes until the complete replacement. We also call for ad hoc training courses for university students and research professionals to be promoted. It is difficult for doctors and students to resort to alternative methods, if they are not necessarily introduced and there are no courses that can explain to our young doctors how research and experimentation can be done without being unnecessarily aggressive about animals, our peers, indeed, probably better than many human beings. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u52	I call Senator Amati to explain motion 258 (text 4).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u53	Madam President, a profound cultural transformation has now taken place in the area of animal welfare at national and European level. The recognition of animals as sentient beings, enshrined in the Lisbon Treaty, is the most important proof of this. There is widespread and cross-cutting sensitivity, which national policies are still struggling to reflect. Let us think of the recent heated debate on alternative methods and alternatives to animal testing, or of the public's concern about the consequences of the introduction of a mechanism of non-perpetuality in view of the fact that sanctions introduced by Law No 189 of 2004 have been effective; this concerns the result of the introduction of significant changes by the Government on the final text of the decree. Once again, the Eurispes report reports that vegetarians and vegans are on the increase in our country (over 7% of the population) and that over 82% are against animal testing, 86 percent are against the use of animals for fur production and 65 percent are against the use of animals in shows. These are facts and data that respond unequivocally to the few who still question that it is right to deal with animal welfare even in times of crisis, imagining, erroneously, that the economic crisis coincides with a cultural change on this issue. On the contrary, the data of the report Eurispes 2014 confirm that the economic crisis does not affect the sensitivity to the protection of animal welfare, now consolidated, but, rather, the ability to bear the costs necessary to the nutritional, hygienic and sanitary needs of the animals, in all respects part of the family unit for 4 Italians out of 10. The company of an animal cannot be considered a luxury. Already many times I have remembered that often the animals of affection are the only last companionship of the lonely and often less well-off people. Since 2009, the issue of animal welfare has been one of the mandatory management criteria for the CAP, in which minimum starting thresholds were defined. This represented, at the same time, a policy of voluntary improvement, partly explained in the rural development programmes and partly in the European Union's policy of guidance on food safety and animal welfare. The new Regulation of 2013 incorporates the same cross-compliance rules and the same obligations regarding good agricultural and environmental conditions, and Annex II specifies, among the mandatory management criteria, that of animal welfare. It is a fact that companies have control over the supply chains and would therefore be able to positively influence the living conditions of tens of thousands and, in the case of large farms, millions of animals. In guiding their consumption choices, citizens have the right to be adequately informed about animal welfare standards, which are effectively guaranteed throughout the production chain. Tomorrow will be inaugurated Expo 2015: a global event focused on the issues of nutrition and nutrition, which also represents a crucial opportunity to promote further progress in animal welfare, surpassing the concept of the animal exclusively as a means to meet human interests and needs. For this reason, we believe it is essential that the Government commits itself concretely to fully implement the recognition of animals as sentient beings, by establishing the Guarantor for the rights of animals, and by supporting, in the appropriate locations, the process of drafting a European framework law on animal welfare, and the introduction of legislation aimed at the protection of animals of affection. On a global level, animals continue to undergo unacceptable treatments in the current food production system. In the world, well over 95 percent of the meat on the market comes from intensive farms, where, in most cases, animals are forced into very tight cages or confined in small spaces, where they spend a short but painful life. Large amounts of antibiotics are administered to animals in order to prevent diseases, inevitable in such density, and this favors the emergence of antibiotic-resistance phenomena, even among people. Only in Europe every year, the World Health Organization denounces, there are 25,000 deaths attributable to antibiotic resistance and I believe that a massacre is expected in a few decades' time. Moreover, there are cases of serious illicits, such as the systematic use of anabolic agents, which highlight the ineffectiveness of the control systems of the production chain. Among the most recent cases, the case reported by "Report" in last Sunday's service "Dupati Vitelli," consumers deceived. In the motion we call for the Government to commit itself to promoting the explicit inclusion of animal welfare in the content of the Milan Charter. Given the continuing shift in the debate in the Chamber of this motion and the deadline of 28 April for the official presentation of the Charter, on this issue we have made some concrete proposals, elaborated with the fundamental contribution of the associations, writing and relating ourselves directly to Minister Martina and his collaborators engaged in drafting. Mrs Granaiola also spokeswoman for these proposals during the hearing of Minister Martina in the Senate on 22 April. There are more than seven billion of us in the world, and the current food production would be enough to feed ten. It is clear, therefore, that each of the points of the Milan Charter, so that the commitments envisaged make sense, presupposes a significant change in our consumption habits and production systems because - I quote - it must be possible to determine a fairer and more sustainable future. I do not think there is any need to explain how much sustainability also depends - and considerably - on the methods used in livestock farming and, therefore, cannot be excluded from the protection of animal welfare. I therefore consider it an important first achievement, the fact that the Milan Charter includes, among the undertakings of the companies, that of promoting the diversification of agricultural and livestock production in order to preserve biodiversity and protect the welfare of animals. But we ask that the commitment not be left exclusively to citizens, businesses and civil society, but that the government also take charge of it, with concrete measures. These are issues which, as mentioned, directly affect the effective realization of the right to know consumers. For this reason we call for the commitment to: strengthen controls throughout the production chain, in order to prevent unacceptable abuses, such as the slaughter of buffaloes or the use of feathers from live birds; to promote a culture of enterprise and chain characterized by a strong appreciation of social responsibility, understood as a commitment to respect without derogations the forecasts of the European directives on welfare and protection of animals; to adopt measures for the redevelopment of farms and the adoption of systems of breeding with minor impact, that respect the ethological characteristics of the various species. In this sense, also in the context of the European Union, it is important for Italy to promote the introduction of a labelling system that makes the animal welfare standards adopted throughout the chain easily and uniquely clear to the consumer, as well as the development of regulations providing for minimum mandatory standards in farms that apply to species currently without specific protection rules such as cows, rabbits, turkeys and fish, and legislation prohibiting the cloning of animals for the production of food. The theme of animal welfare includes ethical, environmental, social and economic elements that make it necessary to adopt a holistic and integrated approach, aimed at improving standards and strengthening international strategies in this area, as advocated by the conclusions of the Council of the European Union in 2012. Research and training therefore play a key role. That is why we call on the Government to commit itself to promoting research into the welfare of livestock, to develop specific evaluation criteria, and on methods to replace animal testing, in practice promoting their use. We also call for the crucial role of the veterinarian to be enhanced in assessing the living conditions of animals and in recognizing the parameters of their well-being, including by providing specific bioethics training for veterinary staff, and for the Government to undertake to promote the training of animal care and management personnel. With regard to the use of animals in shows, as mentioned, 65% of Italians, based on Eurispes data, are opposed. We therefore call for a commitment to promote new rules on traveling shows, which support circuses and shows without animals. In the same way, we believe it is important that the Government promotes and supports initiatives for the conversion of zoos, aquariums and breeding of fur animals into recovery centres for seized animals and that the shelter and recovery centres for maltreated, seized and confiscated animals are censored and networked, defining standards that allow their funding when they operate on cases arranged by the judicial authority. It is also important that good practices are enhanced and promoted, including at least the experience of reintegration and recovery of prisoners in prisons on the island of Gorgona. In conclusion, I think that we should all be aware that it is now impossible for politics to reflect the cultural transformation that has taken place completely in our society, responding in concrete terms to widely shared demands that emerge from widespread and cross-cutting sensitivity. As Gandhi said: "The greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way it treats animals." [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u54	I call Senator Cirinna to explain motion 267.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u55	Madam President, what I am going to explain is a specific motion on which I am also ready to mediate with the Government - and I thank the Undersecretary for being present - because it has as its subject an extremely sensitive subject which concerns the European Treaties: the subject is very limited and concerns the export of live animals from countries of the European Union. You know that the European Union's directives oblige countries to take a great deal of action to protect animal welfare even at the dramatic stages of their end of life. We must not only think about what happens inside a slaughterhouse, but also about everything that happens when the calf, lamb or pig, for example, are taken out of the place where they have lived until then. If they are lucky animals, they will have lived in the wild or in a biological farm, obliged to maintain high welfare standards; if they are lucky animals, they will have had a relationship with other living beings of their species. If not, they will have lived in an intensive breeding, where their life is not. This interrogates our consciences and also interrogates those who for these living beings use the horrible definition of income animals, because those who raise a meat animal do it for an income. At that moment, whether the animal has lived and has seen protection to the minimum, as I have explained, its well-being or without any protection in an intensive breeding, the animal faces the journey to its death. In Italy this happens with safeguards, because however there are rules on how to load the trucks that often each of you sees on the highway, from which the eyes, ears and legs of animals emerge that often try to get out of the bars. Many of these animals are travelling abroad, but outside the European Union these welfare standards are not guaranteed. We therefore call on the Italian Government, in motion 267, to ensure that the European Union is made aware of all the neighbouring countries that are not part of the EU, so that the pain of these animals is kept to a minimum? Is it ethically sustainable to ask for this? Or that there is no pain at all? Also on this we can question ourselves when an animal faces hundreds of kilometers of journey in those trucks of horror, without drinking or eating, where it is often loaded with the help of the electric pungolo, if not with sticks or with any other system to get him up and make him overcome the fear and especially the horror of death coming. I thank the Government for having already had a conversation with me in recent days; I understand that it is very complicated to take on also situations outside Europe, but I am sure that already giving such a signal means first of all to strengthen internal protections, to ensure that everything we ask others is respected by us in the letter, since we ask others to do so, and so that Italy already puts itself in these conditions also with the help of all those who have to watch over it: I am thinking of the veterinary services, the road police authority, the many voluntary associations and the rights of animals that are charged to customs and borders to control the horror of these transports. I am sure that in the course of the discussion that we will have and listening to all the other speeches we will also be able to reach a mediation with the Government on what I realize are challenging and difficult points to support. Let us remember, however, that choices such as protecting the rights of animals in the most extreme situations such as transport to slaughterhouses also qualify the civilization of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u56	I call Senator Fucksia to explain motion No 397.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in Western culture, the theme of animal protection and respect is traced back to the eighteenth century, with the philosophers Voltaire and Bentham speaking in favour of an animalist ethics. These thinkers, while not speaking properly of animal rights, began to express the first ethical considerations regarding the human/animal relationship and the theme of their use in human activities. It is with Peter Singer, in the second half of the twentieth century, that a philosophical debate develops on animal law and the concept of anti-specificism, in opposition to the use of animals as food, as guinea pigs and in any other context, by mankind. I would remind you that, at the regulatory level, the first form of animal rights promotion was achieved by the Universal Declaration of Animal Rights, approved by UNESCO in 1978. This declaration has established a fundamental principle, namely that all animals are born equal before life and have the same rights to existence. This is undoubtedly an important achievement, but each individual national and international system has given its own interpretation, translating it into different standards of protection. From now on, a whole series of directives have been adopted at European level which represent a growing level of protection and attention to animal welfare. I quote a few: Directive No 74 of 1999 on laying hens, Directive No 22 of 1999 on zoos, Regulation No 1523 of 2007, prohibiting the marketing of fur from dogs and cats. As far as animal welfare is concerned, I think it is important to mention the Lisbon Treaty, which has been in force since 10 January 2008. This act has moved to consider animals sentient beings, that is, individuals capable of feeling pleasure or pain. The attribution to all animals, including those of affection, of the ability to feel constitutes a turning point on the legal level, as it definitively differentiates them, if ever necessary, from moving things. The 1987 Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Pet Animals, which Italy ratified only twenty-three years later, is another pillar, with Law No 2014 of 2010. By this act, the acceding States committed themselves to the implementation of fundamental principles for the welfare of animals and their maintenance. In essence, the owner, or the person who deals with it, are also considered responsible for his or her well-being, having to provide the animal, in addition to sustenance, also care and attention to his or her health. But in concrete terms, as far as Italy is concerned, little has been done. I introduced my motion with this brief legislative summary because I believe it is important to retrace the main points of the evolution made in the recognition of animal rights and therefore ask ourselves how much our country has given concrete implementation to these principles and values, now shared at European and international level. Well, my feeling is that Italy is not one of the most evolved countries in this respect. Our legislation on animal protection in fact stands by the entry into force of Law No 28 of 1991, which, while representing a step forward in the affirmation of a more civil relationship between people and animals, does not reach the levels of protection prescribed in Community acts. Moreover, the implementation of many of the animal rights principles enshrined in this law is entrusted to the Regions, which implement the guidelines of the State in a uneven manner. An example of the lack of animal protection is the existing animal health legislation. In Italy there are no minimum and essential levels of health care. In fact, we do not even have strict rules on veterinary professional activity that promote transparency, information and communication between the owner and the veterinarian on therapeutic treatments applied to the animal. In recent years, this lack of clarity in the veterinary profession has become more evident by the number of complaints of cases of animal disease and the birth of associations that urge representatives of the institutions to take legislative action to address the problem. Some of these associations, on February 4, 2015, as I recalled on that day with a speech at the end of the session, called for the first day in memory of the victims of veterinary malasanity, urging the President of the Senate, to schedule the bill n. 1482, "Legge quadro e delegatea al Governo per la codificazione della leggere di tutela dei animali" (Law and delegation to the Government for the codification of legislation in the matter of animal protection), proposed by the 5 Star Movement Group and which also addresses this topic. This motion takes up some of the issues dealt with in that bill and in particular calls for: the adoption of measures to combat crimes against animal sentiment, invoking the personal and financial penalties provided for, and the implementation of more effective systems to prosecute them. It also calls for the preparation of a programme aimed at preventing straying, prohibiting the indiscriminate killing of stray animals, to date practiced in some Italian regions. Suffice it to say that in 2013 in Italy the Italian Association for Animal Protection and Environment (AIDAA) counted the killing of about 1,800 stray dogs, especially in the Mezzogiorno. In this respect, serious control and monitoring systems should be implemented to monitor compliance with this ban at regional level. In the motion to my first signature also requires the activation of more rigorous controls so that there is a stop to the illicit trafficking of exotic animals, but also of the fake international adoptions of our pet animals, real deportations that hide uses contrary to Italian laws. Adoptions must only be possible in those countries which ensure equal levels of protection in their systems. We also call for the increased use of alternative methods to animal testing in scientific research, including the promotion of university training on these new procedures and the promotion of pet therapy in health facilities. The benefits of these treatments have now been recognized and formalized also by the reports published by the Higher Institute of Health itself. Finally, we believe that the disincentive to the use of animals in circuses is an issue that should be addressed immediately. The circuses often appear as lagers, in which animals are forced to perform in total denial of their ethological characteristics and only for pure human fun. Finally, we call for the promotion of minimum standards of health care for animals, including a review of the rules governing the veterinary profession. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to vote on this motion not only to protect animals more, but above all to raise our level of civilization. As Victor Hugo said: First, it was necessary to civilize man in relation to man. Now it is necessary to civilize man in relation to nature and animals. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Bencini and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u58	I inform you that the agendas for G1 and G2 have been presented, the texts of which are being distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u61	MARTON (M5S). Madam President, at the Conference of Leaders, I asked for half an hour for a meeting of our Group. I was allowed, however, to say that the time would be very short. You were there, so you know exactly how it went. Now it seems absurd to me, since we have until 2 p.m. to postpone the vote and settle the motions, since these are arguments that could also be... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I can tell you that we haven't gotten to that point yet. MARTON (M5S). Yes, Madam President, but we are getting to that point and we know it. If the problem is the absence of the majority who cannot vote because there would be no quorum, I would not like it to appear as a concession from the Presidency to go to the final vote on Tuesday, when this depends on a lack of respect for the House by the majority that is not present. I just want this to be on the record. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Centinario]] Believe me, Mr President, I am not mad at you and your attempt to allow the greatest possible participation has been excellent, but I would not like it to appear to be a concession from the Presidency. It's not.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u62	Senator Marton, I don't understand where this consideration comes from, but let's continue our work. Senator Giovanardi asked to explain the agenda G1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide the difficulty I have in dealing with four motions which represent essentially all the human skilful in the relationship between men and animals, which are declined to 360 degrees and, among other things, declined - I read the beginning of a motion to the Government - through a series of proposals evaluated regardless of the costs that might arise. I am saying this in anticipation because it has been two years - and I am addressing the President of the Health Commission - that we are looking for a few hundred thousand euros to give relief to those born without arms or legs, to the Focomelics of the time when thalidomide was administered. As we note, with great shame, that Parliament has not yet found the resources to help human beings who face such impairments throughout their lives, I am faced with a certain difficulty in the face of motions in which it is said that everything written in them is independent of costs. I would also like to make one more prerequisite, which is necessary. We establish a hierarchy of which we are absolutely convinced. There are human persons, who have a level of rights; there are animals that must be respected, protected, as sentient beings and there is also something else that in the hierarchy of creation still has its place. When I first heard of suffering, I remember that even plants suffer. It's true, it is. A mistreated plant has negative reactions and, rightly so, there are those who are concerned that plants are not mistreated. But always within a hierarchy. I read that in these motions the repeal of hunting is decided, because it is said that wild animals can no longer be killed; the translation of what is written is: abolition of hunting. In the motions it is then said, in a tranchant way, that the circuses, those with shows of travelling animals, in perspective must close, so all the cultural tradition of the circus is no longer right to be; it is still said that they must close the breedings of fur animals, and among them I also understand the rabbits, on which there is a campaign aimed at avoiding the breeding of rabbits. I read that we will no longer be able to export live animals abroad - as Mrs Cirinna said - to all those countries where animal rights are not respected; it means that we can no longer export to all Muslim countries and Africa. Not only that: our producers, who slaughter in Italy for those countries, respecting their tradition and their religion, could no longer slaughter. I therefore express to the Government the difficulty of dealing with motions that go down in detail of a series of proposals with macroscopic costs, each of which should be adhered to. I first heard a 5 Star Movement colleague say that it is established that animal research can be surpassed: but where, but when, but who said it? 90% of the Nobel Prize winners for medicine took the prize precisely because they studied on animals. Barnard did not start making heart transplants on men, women and children; Barnard, before doing a heart transplant on a man, studied for years on primates, and it's right that it is, there's nothing else to be missed. This does not mean that the study and compulsory experimentation, by international law, on animals, without which you can not patent a drug (and if in Italy we give up, 7,000 Italian researchers would all go abroad, because you could no longer do research in Italy), give absolute certainty; but, clearly, avoid all damage. If someone comes with me to a thalidide meeting (those thousands of people who are still alive, victims of thalidomide) it will be explained to him that if that German pharmaceutical company had experimented on pregnant animals, tens of thousands of people around the world would not have been born without arms and legs or other pathologies. It will be said to me that it is serious if an animal, as a result of experimentation, is born without limbs; I answer that it is much more serious if men and women are born in that way. I make a hierarchy: it will be serious to experiment on mice, but I had mice on the terrace and I had to deract; and the deratization they all do, because otherwise mice not only carry deadly diseases for men, but they also carry a whole series of consequences. We wouldn't live. It is written in the motions, again, that all animals are equal and have the same rights; even tiger mosquitoes are animals. I know that there is a fundamentalist wing of animalism that believes that mosquitoes should also be respected, as well as tse-tse flies. Go and say it in Africa; we have eliminated endemic diseases by eliminating the pathogenic effects that come from animals carrying these diseases. What do we do? Don't we distinguish? I, on the other hand, say absolutely: let us distinguish. I have nothing to say. There has been talk of pets. Great. I also know that the person on the fifth floor of an apartment can have a small dog or even, as it happens, an avalanche dog. But I did not understand why the same gentlemen who keep the pet dog in an apartment go in front of the circuses to protest because there, in a virtuous relationship between man and animal, the animals are made to work in collaboration with the man. In the apartment, on the fifth floor, in winter, I can keep the avalanche dog, because it is my pleasure to keep it; But in front of the circus I'm going to say that circus operators can't work with the dog or the horse. Does anyone explain these contradictions to me? I remember, in fact, that when there is an earthquake, now, those who save people are trained dogs; those dogs make them work, in collaboration with their partner, teach them to save the lives that remain buried by the earthquake. I would point out that animals are being trained to save men from the avalanche, and so in the fight against organised crime. Do we want to avoid this? In fact, what comes to me, in some way, opposed to the idea that in circuses - naturally protected, supervised, while respecting the welfare of animals - there can be a relationship between man and animals, is that an animal cannot be forced to work. I say that animals, rightly, in the case of avalanches, earthquakes, the fight against organised crime, we raise them and train them in a relationship of utility for man, who is virtuous. Unless - I come back to say - we do not forbid people to keep the animals in the apartment, saying that the animal must be free: all dogs and all cats must be free and not - as Sgarbi once said - dressed as women and men in winter, because it is not in their nature; but there is someone who also disguises the dog because he believes he has an affection with the animal. If we talk about farms, we have to agree. I come from a Region, Emilia-Romagna, - although it certainly does not happen only there - where some millions of people, derive their livelihood and their well-being from animal breeding: for example, in Romagna, from the breeding of chickens or, throughout the Region, from the supply chain coming from the breeding of pigs. Always with respect for animal welfare, someone must explain to me if he is right who at Easter carries out the campaign for the abolition of the use of the lamb, putting in great difficulty the producers. In the light of my culture, I am not ashamed of it: at the last supper, Christ ate lamb and therefore, even from the religious and anthropological point of view, it is not something that frightens me and I believe that I have precedents that somehow reassure me. When we put our producers in the situation of going out of the market, while millions of people should eat products that come from abroad, even from countries where animal welfare is not respected, there are no controls and everything is done, we have put millions of families on the pavement and we have made our economic situation worse: then young people do not find work and there is the despair of unemployment. Again, will there be a hierarchy to be respected or not? After me there will be a few colleagues who are vets: the kennels cost hundreds of millions of euros and only in Rome they cost between 7 and 8 million euros. Many of them are managed by animalist associations: the more dogs increase and the more the business and the money to pay. Look at recent surveys of some kennels reduced to lagers, with the number of animals increasing to an extent. Regarding the increase in the number of animals, I inform my colleagues that wild boars are many beautiful, but at some point, in a territory like the Tuscan-Emilian Apennines or there are men, women, farmers or boars, because these animals destroy everything. Then, at some point, it is necessary to take the wild boars: it is impossible to do otherwise, otherwise the territory is invaded. If the mushroom hunter gets attacked by a bear that's killing him, I'm on the side of the mushroom hunter. I don't accept it being said that the mushroom hunter has to stay at his house without disturbing the bear. [[Comments of Senator Repetti]] I have some difficulty understanding why the veterinarian who, perhaps wrong, has fallen asleep the bear must end up under trial: go and see on the Internet sites how many curses he is taking. I do not want to mention the paradox of those who write that in the earthquake in Tibet more people should have died, so they learn, because there they abuse animals. Go see what was written in some posts on the Internet three days ago. So I want to make a proposal in front of this picture. We have tabled the G1 agenda, which starts with a premise, arising from the motions that have been tabled, which is as follows: As far as animal welfare is concerned, a profound cultural transformation has now taken place, at national and European level, and the recognition of animals as sentient beings, enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon, is the most important demonstration of this. So it is said: all right, there is a new culture and sensitivity in this regard. Then the agenda contains a second part, in which the Government undertakes to implement the commitments made at international level. The Italian Government is therefore asking that, when there are international conventions or agreements, in accordance with the culture of animal respect, they should be applied on time: this means to do as the rest of Europe does and not to make legislative measures that go beyond what Europe does and that are contrary to European legislation. For example, I did not understand why we cannot experiment with mice on substances of abuse, so in order to save people. Among other things, I inform my colleagues - then there is a veterinarian who will talk after me - that even research to heal animals from their diseases is experimented on animals. Veterinary medicine goes on through animal testing, otherwise there would be no veterinary medicine. I was just saying that I do not understand why, if you want to save people from the effects of drug addiction, you can not do experiments on mice. But we have written, bypassing Europe, things that Europe does not do. When I speak of timely application, I ask the Italian Government to transpose and apply European legislation. We have written on the agenda that we must implement the commitments made at European level, but taking into account the constitutionally guaranteed rights of the human person, at least as long as the centre of our Constitution is the human person. Maybe tomorrow there will be a constitution that will say that animals and humans are equal, indeed, according to a colleague of the 5 Stars, who finally repeated the same sentence, animals are better than men (not pass, at least for us, this statement). However, until we put animals at the same level as humans in the Constitution, and I hope not, taking into account the constitutional rights granted to the human person and respecting animal welfare, we must also take into account the freedom of breeding, transformation, research and traditional forms of entertainment; because the two can go well together. The fact of protecting and guaranteeing the existing one, however, is a necessity so that the utopia of thinking that intensive farms, which have been mentioned, can disappear, would, in reality, mean reducing millions of people to poverty, poverty and hunger. You've seen people go looking in the dumpsters for food waste to eat. Unfortunately, we live in a rich and opulent society but there are also people who can't eat. Do you think intensive farms cannot give families the opportunity to buy food at a reasonable price? If we applied rules outside Europe, we would have the effect of reducing people who could no longer consume to poverty and poverty. Think of the elders. And since meat consumption is necessary for both children and the elderly, I think we can find a convergence on these, which are reasonable principles. [[Applause from Senators Mancuso, Silvestro and Marino Luigi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u64	Senator Fattori asked to explain the agenda G2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the clear attention of the 5 Star Movement towards intelligent protection of animals is manifested through the three acts presented and in the case of the G2 agenda, it wants to emphasise another point of animal protection, namely the phenomenon of straying and the tangible effects and dangers it represents. To this proposal I would like to thank the activists who have carried out a survey on the territory and who have allowed me today to bring their demands. Those activists who work and support us over the years and from whom we take all the strength. I would therefore like to express my sincere thanks to those who allow us to be true spokesmen. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The mortality rates analysed by the data provided to us by the Ministry of Health map a situation of the kennels that sees very high percentages where the management of the kennels is lacking and where national and regional legislation is little respected. Conversely, where the percentages drop significantly, there are virtuous models of conduct of the different kennels, both sanitary and shelter, resulting in a reduction in public expenditure. While on the one hand it is true that the high mortality is given by several factors such as the hygienic situation in which dogs are inserted, their maintenance in structure, the possibility of struggles, the rigidity of temperatures or epidemics of any kind, it is also true that significant signals emerge that cannot leave indifferent, such as the potential convenience, in certain situations, not to have animals adopted and kept in the garrisons because it is known that the weak are always exploited to make money, human or animal that they are. Speaking of the regions that present the most worrying data, it would seem first of all that the kennels managed mostly by private individuals such as the famous cooperatives, give much less openness to the public. In fact, where associationism operates, adoption rates increase significantly. This indicates that keeping the dog in the kennel as long as possible, fruits more in economic terms. The adoption rate, which in some kennels varies between zero and 10 percent, compared to that of structures where 40-50 percent is found, is linked to the lack of availability to open the structures to the public and to volunteers experienced in the promotion of adoptions; therefore there is a real policy to prevent adoptions and collect public money for the management of the kennels, ending with the configuration as a real erarial damage for municipalities affiliated with unworthy structures. Just to give an example, in the district of Grosseto about 370,000 euros of public money are spent on the fight against straying; in the district of the Roman Castles - where I live and where there are so many problems, including this - on equal demographic and territorial conditions, one and a half million euros is spent. So we spend 370,000 euros in Grosseto and 1.5 million euros in the Roman Castles, so there is a legitimate doubt that 66% of this money is being used illegally. The money must be better managed and the availability put by the state, which today tends to fall significantly, must see a greater study of the costs and benefits and a power supply of the funds for the solution to the problem. At European Union level, too, both Parliament and the Commission call for harmonisation of the rules for the overall management of the canine population - here too, Europe is asking us to do so, but we are a merchant - in order to reduce the differences in treatment from country to country and increase control over possible law-crudelity or the uniform register at European level of identified dogs. The last aspect to analyze, but not least, is the action that is done on the territory by structures designed ad hoc within the institutions. I am referring in particular to the NIRDA (Nucleo Investigativo per gli offensi in damage to animals), which is an investigative structure of the Forest Corps of the State - which yesterday we well thought to abolish - established in 2007, which carried out highly specialised investigative activities, which involved interventions in kennels and breeding camps in different Italian regions (thus dissolving those structures that used the money badly and that were also cruel to animals). In 2010, the Ministry of Health's task force for the protection of animals of affection, the fight against straying, ill-treatment and canili- lager was also set up, which operates in close synergy with the NAS and animal protection associations. Well, you want to suppress the State Forestry Corps and someone's impoverishing the task force. For these reasons, instead, this Government is required to strengthen these structures in their functions (not to annihilate them), to organically feed in a uniform way in all regions the fight against straying, to comply with the line that demands the European Union and to improve controls and transparency in order to efficiency in this area also the public expenditure, avoiding that they are the weakest to pay and be the object of profit from institutions and cooperatives. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u66	We greet the students and students of the State Institute of Industry and Technology Leonardo da Vinci in Naples: welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u67	I declare the debate open. She is registered to speak Senator Granaiola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u68	Madam President, some time ago, while I was preparing work against animal abuse, I was pleasantly impressed by how many philosophers, thinkers, writers, religious and men of science have spoken about this since the times. I quote one for all, Mahatma Gandhi, who said that the greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way it treats animals. On the path of human civilization, attention to non-human sentient beings, despite a thousand problems, has progressed slowly, even if we are still forced to fight against the ill-treatment of animals and, more generally, to defend biodiversity. There can be no fight against animal abuse without a strong cultural commitment to the protection of biodiversity. This battle of civilization, which is one of those with which we are all called to confront, has taken many steps forward, has gained a concrete cultural weight and is convincedly supported by an increasing sensitivity and individual awareness, involving ever wider groups of the population. Today we can take another step forward, discussing the fight for the rights of animals and their natural well-being, which is different from the signed coat, the luxury leash or the silver bowl. Animal rights, the protection of biodiversity and the preservation of our natural environment are terms of the same perspective, which prefigures a level of civilization and a model of sustainable development that can no longer be postponed. These are complex and sensitive issues: a situation that can be well represented recalling how important it was to conquer the partial ban on whale hunting and, at the same time, how much that ban has been opposed and how difficult it is to make it actually respect. I believe that supporting the relationship between animals and people, in general, is a choice of civilization, however worthy and worthy of being defended. We must not forget the fundamental role played by animals employed in rescue operations or in therapies and activities for curative, accompanying and rehabilitation purposes; we think, for example, of pet therapy. For these and for many other reasons, in our cities, in the economy and in production, in research and above all in training and study, there is a need to promote a correct and renewed relationship between people, animals and communities. It is enough to think of that serious illness of today's society: loneliness, which has no age, has no gender and which, when married to poverty, produces a disastrous result. The affectivity, the joy that can give in some cases the closeness of an animal, the emotion that implies, can give results much more effective than many drugs. There are more and more families in our country who own or wish to own an animal, which ends up becoming, to all intents and purposes, a member of the family. This is even more true in the case of the elderly, for whom the dog or cat is often the only companion and reason for comfort with the creation of a specific and relevant relationship between person and animal, a relationship which, both for people and for animals, can be very intense. In order to combat the abandonment, abuse and exploitation of animals of affection, education campaigns must be supported. Collaboration with voluntary associations, which have always been involved in these issues, can be used, associations that rarely have the support of local authorities, which are increasingly replacing the role of local authorities themselves and which make a decisive contribution to making more effective and less burdensome all the initiatives aimed at combating the abandonment of animals and a correct containment of straying. It is clear, therefore, that it is necessary to facilitate the possession of animals of affection, as well as the care and care of those who are abandoned. The approval of the bill presented by Senator Amati and other senators on the use of medicinal products in derogation for the veterinary treatment of animals not intended for the production of food would help to effectively combat abandonment, introducing in our legislative system a set of measures necessary for the protection and protection of animals of affection, trying to put in synergy, in the interest of the community, all the public and private actors and bodies involved, in order to achieve objectives that, in appearance, may seem minimal, but which instead are of great importance for the quality of life of many people, for the welfare of animals and for their balanced presence in the urban fabric. The points 4 to 9 of motion 258 (text 4), of which Senator Amati is first signatory, specifically recall, very concretely, another question: that of the feeding or destination of the animal, or parts of it, for the production of consumer goods - more or less voluptuous - and of the entire production chain that characterizes it, a theme that, unlike what I mentioned earlier, we are all led to remove. On the other hand, it is a fundamental and urgent issue to be addressed, because in many, too many cases, it is still the most brutal and uncivilized issue. It is the theme of the useless suffering of an animal that, after being bred in a bad way, transported between absurd and useless suffering, is destined for slaughter. This part of the motion, not only refers to this subject, but above all also indicates some concrete objectives aimed at opening up a phase of greater controls, banning unnecessary massacres, extending the protections to animals hitherto excluded from all protection. These include strategies to raise consumer awareness and promote difficult research to better protect animals involved in the production of food, goods and products. I am thinking, for example, of the spying of live birds, which, fortunately, is prohibited in Italy, while - alas - the import of animals obtained by such methods is not prohibited. The following points of the motion represent positive proposals essential for identifying good practice: research, innovation, rights or, at least, compassion and sensitivity. Faced with this there will always be someone who will continue to wonder how it is possible to support these issues at a time when health care is cut off for men, there is no job and companies struggle to access the necessary resources: they are the objections of conservation and silence and guilty denial. To these objections I respond with two orders of reasons: the first and most evident is that of a choice of civilization and, as I said before, of modalities of development to be pursued. The second is that promoting a non-violent culture towards sentient beings, educating respect for animals and above all - on every useful occasion - countering the useless suffering of an animal (even if destined for slaughter) are cultural investments that will produce respect for the life and dignity of every living being. The motions that we are discussing today, in all their broad articulations, represent a further important step forward; an additional piece in a mosaic of civilizations that we all know how far away it is from being fully accomplished and satisfactory, above all - I repeat - on the issues of countering unnecessary suffering and on that of a more concrete Italian commitment to the protection of biodiversity at global level. These motions go hand in hand with other initiatives and, in a positive spirit, respond to widespread expectations of increasing sections of our citizenship. These motions, therefore, cannot remain important affirmations of principles, but we expect them to be followed shortly by new and concrete initiatives of the Government, consistent with the points indicated in them. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u69	Senator Zuffada is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u70	Madam President, as in the premises of all the motions put forward, I too believe that culture and desire on the part of all citizens and human beings that there is animal welfare are absolutely shared. However, I raise some problems, especially after the intervention of Senator Cirinna, who said that he had a lot of hesitation in talking about farm animals. I wonder: but how do you think you can feed the billions of people who in the near future will not have the ability to feed themselves (already today some people have difficulty feeding themselves)? I therefore believe that it is appropriate and necessary first of all to see one of the reasons for improving the quality of farms and the general interest. I do not agree with the fact that farmers - especially livestock farmers - are often and willingly seen by so-called animalists as people who are at least despicable. I believe - I am convinced, in my professional experience - that in order to have greater productivity there is a need for animal welfare in farm animals: in fact, if an animal is mistreated and is not well, it is clear that it cannot produce more and better. I also believe that the Italian farmers, particularly for years here, have made considerable efforts to improve, from a structural and plantist point of view, animal welfare (to verify it would suffice that some of the senators, so critical of this type of farming, went to visit some farms, mainly dedicated to milk production, the so-called dairy cattle farms or even pig farms and chicken farms that were previously mentioned). The remarkable improvement that has occurred in these years in Italian farms is also due to the ability that the breeders have had to invest in the structures, often and willingly in a market system that has not guaranteed them. When it is said that we must try to improve animal welfare, but at the same time we do not take measures even from an economic point of view to help and support farmers who want to improve, it is clear that mere statements of principle are made. Then, for example, we are asking for labelling that shows the level of animal welfare, with a government such as Italy that has not been able in all these years - and I do not make political distinctions - to guarantee our producers from the point of view of labelling, because after abandoning the meat processing and dairy processing industry with regard to foreign multinationals, we do not have the capacity and the strength - and I do not know if the will - to have the European level labelling that guarantees Italian products. We have not been able to do this, and I would not want us to insist on the labelling of animal welfare, but by not doing the appropriate controls towards countries, particularly those in Eastern Europe, which in some sectors are unfair competitors with regard to Italian production. I would therefore insist in particular that the directives should be respected by all and above all by the countries which are harassing us and which make us unfair competition, especially for certain products such as dairy and meat products. I would not like some initiatives to go - as Senator Giovanardi rightly said - to have a negative impact on some specific types of Italian breeding, because this would first of all be a regrettable initiative that would also affect the so-called labour force in a particular way. Let us not forget that agriculture in Italy, especially in some regions, is still a driving force and that is why I would like it to be safeguarded. On the subject of straying, which I often hear about, it is certainly good that there is a ban on the disposal of stray animals and it is worthy of the action of some voluntary associations that naturally try to entrust the animals that are actually accommodated in the kennels, but also this requires resources. The municipalities assigned to stray animals, to which resources are continually cut, cannot then be asked to have kennels of excellence or conventions with private kennels to facilitate, for example, mass sterilization, when they are the same associations that do not agree on mass sterilization. Good intentions are not enough: we also need resources. As for the trial, I remember that when I was a veterinary student, the surgeons of the Policlinic and Niguarda came to the faculty to do surgical trials on pigs and other types of animals. If Italian surgery, medicine and pharmaceutical have been successful at national and international level, this is also due to the fact that this type of experimentation has also been conducted. I agree that there must also be more resources to find alternative systems, but I believe that hearing that animal testing has not had any practical and health effects is really unacceptable. I agree with the possibility of allocating more resources to alternative testing, but provided that those funding margins for animal testing are not compromised, not because there is an end in itself to continue animal testing - so much so that the data reveal a considerable decrease in the number of animals and species used - but because at least those used are safeguarded. That is why I agree with the general approach, but I am very perplexed about practical application, because this must be done by safeguarding the positive aspects of livestock and farm animals. I am also very concerned about the abolition of hunting. I would like to remind the Lombards in particular, and the Brescians in particular, how this type of industry gives the opportunity to maintain a significant workforce. I would not like the Italian hunters, with the prohibition of hunting in Italy, to move all their resources and their interests towards the countries of Eastern Europe, so in the end we would be horny and bunched. [[Applause from Senators Giovanardi, Mancuso and Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u71	Senator Repetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u72	Madam President, I shall be brief. In recent years a new awareness has also grown in Italy about the need to protect animals from unnecessary and unjust suffering, but unfortunately still insufficient. In fact, the issue of animal welfare is constantly being dealt with in the classrooms of this Parliament, but - alas - almost never without concrete and, above all, definitive progress. This is because, because of a retrograde culture - we heard some statements this morning - and an arrogant ignorance, animal welfare is considered to be an unimportant topic; some even consider it a mania, a fanaticism of those who deal with it. I would like to remind Mr Giovanardi, who spoke earlier, that animals are not like plants. Maybe he never noticed because he never got close to the animals, and I'd think if it wasn't the animals that didn't want to get close to him. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Cirinna and De Petris]] Dear colleagues, the truth is that the welfare of animals, the respect of the weakest living beings and their protection, are a measure, a relevant and fundamental parameter by which one judges the level of civilization of a country. It is by no means a matter of minor importance. In spite of this, we are also among the most backward countries in Europe. For these reasons I fully support the motion of my colleague, Mrs Amati, whom I have signed, and all the other motions and agendas of the day (apart from that of my colleague Giovanardi), first of all so that Italy really becomes a civil country, believing that the protection of animals is a duty, so that it is fully applied to the recognition of animals as sentient beings, and that it becomes fully aware of the value of the fauna heritage, without any more happening - never again - episodes such as that of the killing of the bear Daniza: a disgrace, a shame, even more serious because committed by the institutions, by those who should protect the fauna. Such a thing would never have happened in another civilized country. In conclusion, without focusing on the various points of the various motions because they follow the same principle and common sense, I hope that this House will be aware of the importance of these motions and vote firmly. [[Applause from Senators Bondi, De Petris, Amati and Cirinna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u73	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u74	Madam President, in this House we have recently restored the theory of anthropocentrism: at the centre of the universe there is man and everything is man-made. I would like to remind you that, in the meantime, science and history have gone a little further, and also philosophy: we are no longer in Socrates and not even in Protagora. In the meantime we have seen and listened, fortunately, Galileo Galilei, who explained to us that Earth is not the center of the universe, but the sun is. Meanwhile, with the Darwinian theory of species, which were born in different times but basically from a single nature, we restored the value of the origin of the species, so we reunited as a human species to the fauna species (it was 1859, Senator Giovanardi). I therefore believe that we have made the scientific way not to go today to restore the issue of man who has the right to be father and master over the rest of the animal species and above all about the rest of nature. The great subject we are debating here, despite being half empty, is that there is no contrast between animal welfare and human health, but I would like to say more: there is a relationship between animal welfare and human health. This is because the Treaty on European Union reminds us of this (which I do not think we can deny) in Article 13, which considered animal welfare to be a specific obligation in the assessment of what is happening within the markets and in the relationship between animals and animals. As was said, fauna is therefore sentient, it is able to feel pleasure and pain and this has imposed rules on all the Member States. However, as all or almost all previous speakers have said, there is still a common path to be taken. Since it had not already been mentioned in the previous speeches, I would like to remind you of the suffering that still comes to light with regard to animals, which, for example, are simply considered waste production. This is the case of chicks and buffaloes: male specimens of chicks and buffaloes with the defect of not producing eggs and milk, respectively. Recently a case occurred in Brescia, verified by the ULSS, where the crushing and therefore the killing of the chick with the feet, as if they were grapes during the harvest, or even were still alive inside of shredders to produce feed. This is the case of these hundreds of thousands of chicks that, born males, were not considered interesting for the production of eggs. Or there is still the case of male buffaloes. We had many episodes, some recent in the casertano, in which they were simply left to starve and then their carcasses, even infected, were buried, creating among other things not a few health problems. These are, of course, bestial practices which not only fail to respond to the treatments that the Lisbon Treaty has highlighted, but which I believe must also make us reflect on the current capacities that we have as ULSS. I am thinking of the recent case of calves and cattle, known to all and mentioned. It seems that 15% of the number of calves and cattle treated with corticosteroids, anabolic agents, hormones, toxic and carcinogenic medicines used exclusively for the purpose of increasing their muscle mass is now increased. All this leads us to an evidence that we cannot deny, namely that we must deal much more seriously than has been the case so far with the guarantee and protection of animal welfare, because this is absolutely in relation to our ability not to be considered simply the end-users of these poor animals treated indecently. There is a European strategy to increase the competitiveness of European agricultural products, thus ensuring that markets and consumers take animal welfare as an added value and we all have to deal with it. Recently there has been a huge alarm from England that has had as much importance in international newspapers as in Italy: an increasing percentage of citizens are immunized to antibiotics because they feed on poultry. The chickens in battery, in fact, kept in confined spaces, with the light perennially lit to accelerate the fattening, have led to the weakening of the same animal species. This has somehow forced farmers to inject their antibiotic until the end of their life cycle, thus importing an impressive amount of antibiotic into consumers; this, by the mechanism of accumulation, makes them immunized by the very effectiveness of antibiotics in case of need (to all of us it is clear the close relationship, existing in cases where this happens, with the ineffectiveness of any medical system). These are significant examples of the very close relationship between the human being and the animal. We must create a responsible culture towards animals, increasing the appropriate inspection training in the agricultural and livestock world with adequacy, not only of the penalty and therefore with an increase in penalties, but above all with an increase in prevention. There is an appointment, to all of us it is dear, that of Expo 2015, in which the will will will be expressed, already present in the Protocol of Milan to highlight further elements that make possible an increase of civilizations on the planet. It is an ambition that we have taken on and that I would like to take forward, considering in particular all that we can put in place to involve the rest of the world as a function of a reduction in the quantity of meat that is being taken by man today. It must be said that one third of the land cultivated on the planet today serves only to supply cereals for farmed animals. Normally, this excess carnivorous food is considered no longer sustainable, in the true sense of the word, and does not allow the rest of the human population to adequately access food stocks. This theme must lead to the construction of a culture that is not massified on quantity but rather places a great deal on quality. When I first listened to the reasoning about the prevalence of the economy over the other issues put in place in the debate today, I thought that we are making a very serious mistake. In fact, the economy cannot fail to feel the absolute value of the quality of what is placed as a product on the market, of how this product is processed and bred and of the value that we manage to give in relation to the food chain and therefore to the same quality of the animal, which is next to us and of which we feed. Hunting and fishing, therefore, dear Senator Giovanardi, must respect migration, the season of births and loves. The size of the caught and the hunted must also be assessed and taken into account in relation to the means and instruments of hunting and fishing, which must not be excessive, disproportionate or improper. I mean, we need to put in place a system of relationships to make it clear that we don't just create slogans in here. As Senator Repetti recalled, the coexistence with protected species has recently become difficult, and this also makes clear another contradiction on which we must shed light. I take the example of the bears of Trentino and Abruzzo, wanted and loved in words, but not as much when they force us to adapt our lives to their existence. We find ourselves more easily insuffering, incapable of adequate answers, but more easily available to brutal and offensive responses. Therefore, we need to change the approach and the mentality and make sure that the agricultural CAP is also the instrument we give ourselves in order to be able to include a regional guarantor for animal rights. This additional protection mechanism, which is proposed and promoted by some of today's resolutions, must also include and encourage veterinary conventions and encourage adoptions, precisely because the reduction of costs for the community for those who care for an animal must be promoted, both at legislative and financial level, as well as the development of projects capable of improving the quality of animal welfare for slaughter animals. All this in order to say that the argument is substantial, that we cannot limit it exclusively to an opposition between the parties, but that we must understand that our role is to promote a civilization of which Italy has been a beacon for two thousand years, and it would not be bad if it remembered to promote it also within the European Union and the planet earth. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u75	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u76	Madam President, before I begin my speech, I would like to make a brief point about those who think differently from me, such as Senators Giovanardi and Mr Zuffada, whose thoughts I respect, of which I often treasure. I would like to make another point, with reference to the last speech in this House. To belong to the great family called deep ecology and to be a point of reference or to profess a thought that places its main attention on man, and that defines itself as anthropocentric, does not mean not to be lovers of animals. Personally, I call myself an ecocentrist, precisely because I belong to a completely different philosophy, which the senator intervened before me should know. Having said that, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my partial support for the motions we are debating today and I sincerely hope that the Government will commit itself so that the intentions of these acts can be translated into concrete and effective measures shortly. Urgent measures are needed to punish all forms and types of maltreatment to the detriment of all animal species. Motions on the promotion of culture against animal abuse refer to very important issues, such as the progressive development of alternative research methods that replace those based on animal experimentation. I also remember how fundamental it is to get to organize public circus shows without the exploitation of animals, which are still bred in captivity to be exploited in activities that have nothing to do with their nature and their instincts, and are used as objects for the simple fun of man. In this respect, it is necessary to remember, as a fundamental point of any debate on animal welfare, that animals are recognised as sentient beings in the Treaty of Lisbon. However, it is necessary to translate this principle into concrete regulatory provisions, for example by promoting a European framework law on animal welfare. Another crucial point is the guarantee of sustainable living conditions to protect animals on farms in our production chain: farms that adopt production maximization techniques at the expense of animal welfare should be retrained to ensure a negative impact on the growth and life of animals as low as possible. In this respect, as one of the motions in question points out, minimum standards are required for the guarantee of animals, which are currently without specific protection regulations, such as cows, rabbits, turkeys and fish. At this point I would like to make a reflection, which is based on one of the commitments of motion 258, in particular number three. In this passage the government is asked to include in the spaces of the Expo the themes of a respectful feeding of animals, referring to the consideration that Expo 2015 represents today a crucial opportunity to promote further progress in the matter of animal welfare, overcoming the conception of the animal intended exclusively as a means to satisfy human interests and needs. These statements express fundamental values that must guide our choices in relation to animals. However, they do not show the courage necessary to take the next step, that is to consider animals as living beings, whose purpose cannot be, either exclusively or partially, to satisfy the interests and needs of man. In this regard, I would like to have a broader look, which, at the same time, also affects our everyday life closely and lively. I would like to live in a society that begins to reflect on the possibility (although I recognize that it will be a slow, difficult and radical process) of no longer sacrificing the life of animals for our nutrition. On a personal level, we are all responsible for an attitude of carelessness (if not a veiled hypocrisy) when we forget, when we sit at the table, those unjust cruelty against animals, which are increasingly denounced by the media. On the one hand, we are horrified and scandalized in front of scenes in which we see animals, obviously destined for slaughter and human consumption, who suffer torture of all kinds to end up making our palates happy; on the other, almost paradoxically, we set up our tables with products that are the result of real madness. Is our sadism coming this far? Incomprehensible and unacceptable. On the social level, on the one hand we have various laws and measures that protect animal species: I am thinking of the ban on the killing of wild animals, the restrictions on the discipline of hunting or the processes that must encourage, as one of the motions in question requires, the conversion of zoos and aquariums and breeding of fur animals into recovery centers for seized animals; on the other hand we consciously carry out the "stragi" without too many scruples or remorse. We should begin to reconsider our relationship with food, cooking and food in general. Food has now become a TV show attraction: in recent decades we have seen media phenomena of competitions and competitions to show off our culinary skills, which have exceeded all forms of decency and sense of the limit. We try to make our tables sophisticated and distract ourselves from boredom, like millions of spectators squeezed into the TV culinary mincer. Food, in this age of abundance, is no longer a way to feed us, so to satisfy one of our needs, but it has become a brutal and cruel extermination scientifically planned. When one thinks about the living conditions that animals are forced to live from birth and all the suffering that animals are subjected to during the processes before slaughter, one question arises: is ours a civil society? For these reasons, I believe it is necessary to implement every form of prevention that protects animals from any ill-treatment. In addition, I think it's time to start a path of education towards a change of mindset and culture in relation to the sources of livelihood that man uses. As I said earlier, I realize that the transition to nutrition that does not include animal products requires a long-term and large-scale food awareness process. The objective, however, must remain to bring the population closer to a predominantly vegetarian choice. A power of this kind would respond positively to the ethical remarks of which I spoke earlier. Moreover, it would be a choice that, properly implemented and calibrated on a case-by-case basis, would contribute to our well-being, contrary to the one reported by the common volcano, which links to the vegetarian option a worsening of our health (it is often forgotten, however, that excessive consumption of meat is really harmful). In conclusion, I hope that the Government will adopt measures and laws that protect the welfare of animals, and at the same time start a path of awareness towards cultural change that will make us actually human beings. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u77	Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u78	Madam President, I would also like to thank you for your kindness: given the time, I will really try to sum up my speech. I would like to start from a first consideration, that is, from the need to approach these issues in a pluralist way, with respect for the opinions of everyone, because it is unbearable that they are launched invectively on a subject that is discussed, on which there are not always pluralistic accents, but on which we are witnessing frankly out of place fundamentalisms. This is an issue which, if badly addressed, risks communicating falsehood and determining oppositions in public opinion. What's the point of bringing scientific research closer to affectionated animals? We all have animals of affection, we are all very pleased, and we love them, but we cannot put together every time the discourse on animals of affection with that on scientific research, because the theme of scientific research and experimentation with use of animals (which is also largely restrictive as far as European legislation is concerned) is something else and has to do with the welfare of everyone, human and animal. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Giovanardi]] Unless we think that hypocrisy should prevail - because that is what it is - to go and buy research abroad. It is not that if we vote on a motion on the subject, suddenly in the rest of the world they get scared and no longer do research. [[Applause from Senator Carraro]] The only truth is that, with the moratorium that we have in progress, Italian researchers, even those who try to experiment with alternative uses to animal testing, are cut off from any research ban circuit. So Italy is taking steps backwards, which are not good for the Italy system and are not good for life, its value and the right to life, which in our world have first of all human beings. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] Excuse me, but it is really intolerable that mystifications should be done: funding has been allocated for alternative testing to animal testing. We have recently asked, in an opinion on European legislation, for the Government to take account of this moratorium and also of the funding that has been invested. This has been done and I believe that this is right, because it is right to restrict the use of animals for testing, but it is certainly not right to ban animal testing. The fundamentalisms of those who open the enclosures and let the mice out of the universities are of no use but to exacerbate a population, which needs to be properly informed about what the value of science is. There is no truth, so much so that we are also discussing other types of research, but I cannot vote for any motion that contains a refusal to experiment with animals: I say this as President of the Senate Health and Health Commission. We know that if there was no animal testing, today we would not have aspirin, but medicines against cancer, hepatitis C or Alzheimer's medicine. Do we want to think about that too? Do we want to think about the millions of people who have rare diseases that require treatment and these treatments can only be found through experimentation? Or do we believe that if we are to think about abuse substances rather than the testing of a drug against anxiety or depression, a drug that inevitably causes us to fall asleep, should we in turn put the animal to sleep so that we can experience it better? I don't think so, Madam President. I believe that research is the prius in this case. The second point on which I cannot agree is the attitude for which we would like to surreptitiously change legislation through motions. This, from a regulatory point of view, is a very but very incorrect operation on which I personally disagree. The ban on cloning animals for food production cannot be ruled out by a motion: it cannot be done because a law is needed. We are a Parliament, we are not just an assembly that votes and things go on their own: we are a Parliament that has to give direction to the Government and this series of prohibitions is of no use but to deceive the citizens with regard to a resolution that should be informed. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Finally, I hope that when we talk about bioethics training for veterinarians we also have the face of saying that bioethics training must also be done for doctors who treat people, human beings, because it is not possible to be so unilateral. And then I'm the first, and I said it (as colleagues know) under public circumstances, working for animal welfare. But I am not and will never agree to oppose animal welfare to the progress of humanity, which is fundamental to me. Returning to the flint is of no use to anyone or to go back to the Middle Ages with its fears and obscurantisms. Research is important, science is important in our world. I would like Italian citizens to know more and trust a little less in some claims that move their belly and fall asleep in the brain. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Giovanardi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u79	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u80	Madam President, it is true that this is a subject that sometimes risks triggering fundamentalist tones, because we have just heard one. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Amati and De Petris.]] In fact, the quality of the debate that took place this morning with the participation of many colleagues who, while sitting in different groups and perhaps bearing with them also different visions of society, I believe have been distinguished by a unitary trait of reflection and sharing a necessary push and propulsion to be found through the laws that promote increasingly advanced cultures for the widespread general progress of man and of what surrounds him. I have little to add to the very competent speeches I heard before Senator De Biasi in this House. I just have to invite all my colleagues to give further thought to the fundamentalisms which do not animate us, because in the words that convinced me (such as those of my colleague Sciliopti Isgro', as far as my Group is concerned, but also those of Senator Zuffada) I think there is the ground for comparison on which we are obliged to exercise ourselves in order to imagine our role on this planet in addition to the primacy that we take for granted but which today seriously counts, Mr Zuffada, with a transformation, sometimes even from dramatic features, of our economy and the economy of the planet, on which we, in my opinion, have to carry out a more thorough reflection. In other words, how much can we guarantee this planet and its economy in the future? Which planet do we give to our children and how is its economy made? There are some indicators, which few analyze - in the context of that hypocrisy that Senator De Biasi so much recalled for others, but not for herself - that show instead that the level of consumption and the attention to a conscious consumption, that re-collects us correctly in the relationship man-animal and man-fauna, are moving a part of the more modern economy. From here, perhaps, the most important consideration, relating to the consumption of our soil, that is the land that we exploit to produce everything we need: a third of what we grow we need to make eat not children who still suffer hunger on this planet, but animals, within that context that described so well before Senator Scilipoti Isgro'. This has an economic cost, in addition to the social cost of our responsibility and the cultural one of our role on the planet also - let me say, very far from all fundamentalism, but also from what Senator De Biasi has said - compared to that moral law that is within us and to that sky of stars that is above us, with which we all have to deal sooner or later. So it is a culture that we must promote, as well as escape from hypocrisies and contradictions: how many of us do they daily? It must be clear, however, that from there we must flee, in order to find an intelligent, coherent, correct and respectful balance of all and of us first. In respecting an animal, humanity is first and foremost respected: why, if humanity is not so, what is there to respect? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Granaiola.]] Just to answer a small question that Mr De Biasi raised: is there any need to respect the fact that we use animals to test detergents or cosmetics? I cannot respect this, I prefer to respect a life within which to find the ways in which animal welfare is parallel to human welfare. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] When we break this pattern the one or the other side suffers and does not bring its own contribution to that world, sometimes utopian, to which we must strive, in order to conquer at least those small great conquests that have seen us very busy before and much more we will have to see ourselves engaged in the face of human conquests. Today, however, among human conquests, there is also that of a culture of respect for life different from us, which is always of this creation. In this context, I would like to make my modest contribution, which is not as competent as that of other Members in this House, to invite us to look at the real numbers of the economy. What is the real economy that we need to safeguard? It is not that of the circus, Senator Giovanardi, but that of a correct diet for the whole Planet, which is the challenge of this Expo, which cannot be just a showcase, or its failure. I never liked the image of the Expo with the long table of people eating. Perhaps, until we can find the balance between the many peoples that must be able to eat, we will see only that physical representation, which before Senator Scilipoti tried well to describe, of a rich world that is puffed up and poisoned. It is true that progress has been made in our country, but a transmission Sunday evening reminded us that there are pathologies and degenerations to which we must look carefully because often, when we eat that meat, we also eat medicines, cortisone, oestrogens and all things that have nothing to do with the well-being of man, but with his greed. I also share the fact that the grotesque representation of our life made through television broadcasts, which now offer us culinary recipes at all hours of the day and night, does not correspond to our country: that is not our world, but it is the fiction of a world that does not pose the problem of the neighbor who perhaps does not have to eat or the elder who does not have to eat for himself, but manages to feed his dog. These are the questions that we need to be able to solve here, in a balance made of economy and all those things that previously well expressed by Senators Zuffada, Scilypoti Isgrò and many others. This is the challenge, not the circus, the challenge of today's and tomorrow's economy, the challenge of the planet that we deliver to our children. As for the European Union, I would like to say to my colleague Mr Puppato that we very much like the Treaties and the Community directives, provided that they apply to everyone. It cannot happen, in fact, as many of us know, that in the noble Spain, where European funding also comes for bullfighting, there is still no minimum law for the protection of animals: the dramatic case of the exploitation of certain types of dogs - those most used for hunting and running - represents a dark and shameful page of the history of that country. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia.]] I hope that, without the hypocrisy of the European Union itself, we can all together overcome the challenge, for us, for Europe and for civilization in general. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, PD and M5S]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u81	Senator De Petris, who will present the G3 agenda during her speech, is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u82	Madam President, it is a little difficult for me at this time to speak after listening to some speeches which, in addition to giving rise to easy controversy, deserve a very detailed rebuttal on the subject. In fact, we are discussing issues which, unlike what some may think in the light of the semi-empty Chamber, are not entirely marginal. The issue of animal welfare and rights is not just about four old ladies - I say this to my colleague Amati - as someone may think, with an approach to the issue dictated perhaps only by sentimentalism. [[Applause from Senator Zavoli.]] I have even heard people call on and warn against fundamentalism. These considerations concern not only the first-signed motion of Senator Amati and myself, but also all the other ones presented on the subject, which I believe are absolutely serious and balanced, in which detailed questions are raised which have to do with animal welfare and the progress of humanity itself. It is not the Middle Ages, as I have heard, it is exactly the opposite. The questions put to our attention today with these motions are in fact questions that, once again, affect the future of humanity and the well-being of the human species. With the use of old theses, which are no longer used even in the scientific world, I have heard oppositions made here, referring to those who, the interests and rights of people, would prefer the rights of animals instead. I am very sorry that President De Biasi has used, by warning us of fundamentalism, the reasons and arguments, especially with regard to animal testing, which frankly deserve a long debate in this very House. In fact, I am quite tired of being called on, every time, always the fact that progress on the fight against cancer and Alzheimer's would not have been there if there had not been animal testing. It's like we're standing here fighting, apparently, against the sick. Obviously, all the people who have dealt with these diseases know perfectly well that things are very different and that, perhaps, this House should really discuss in depth what is behind some foundations and, when raising funds, how the funds are then used and why you choose a research line for a certain drug and not another. We should reflect - this is data from the last few days - why, despite all these great progress (which, apparently, has been achieved only by sacrificing animals through animal testing), we continue to have, only in Italy, a thousand new cases of cancer per day. That's what we're talking about. Therefore, the issues we have raised with the motions on animal welfare have a lot to do with human well-being. When we dealt with the subject of animal experimentation, which divided us greatly, one of the points on which we had committed ourselves (which is reported in this motion and which would be in the general interest of this country, right beyond - we do - all fundamentalisms, and on which we asked the Government to commit) was to implement more and more the use and, therefore, the research with alternative methods. If what this House had decided, for example in the transposition of the directive on vivisection, had not been modified debt and, therefore, very attenuated, we would have had, for example, great opportunities, which I still hope the Government will seize, for funding the research of the Horizon programme, that it is precisely to alternative methods and in vitro methods that it devotes a lot of resources. Therefore, it would be a great opportunity for the search of our country and those who really care about the battle against diseases should have at heart even more than all of us, really, the battle and the commitment to increase the funds for in vitro research and alternative methods to animal testing. The Ministry of Health offers us every day the Advanced Advertising, which we obviously share, about not giving adult drugs to children. Did you wonder why? Our puppies (i.e. puppies also of the human species) are not exactly like adults and, therefore, it is not that drugs for adults can be given to children with the doses halved or reduced to a tenth. In all liars you read: do not administer to children under the age of 12. Not to mention the fact that most drugs are tested on male gender individuals and, therefore, there is some problem with regard to women. President Fedeli knows what I'm talking about. What does that mean? It means that, evidently, when one thinks that all progress is linked to animal experimentation, we do not deal with the fact that we are talking about other species often very, but very far from the human species. So much so that our drugs cannot, rightly, be used on children, who also belong to the same species. So do you think that all the progress of research, humanity and the fight against disease is linked to animal testing? In this respect we could make a long list of serious cases of drugs that had given results on animals and that produced completely different results on the human species. In these motions we argue that we must invest in alternative methods, that is for progress and scientific research. It is not that there is only one type of scientific research and it is not that anyone who may be a senator for life in here is frivolous with the capital of "Science" and the others are all sorcerer apprentices and in this sense I am surprised at the position of a woman - who I do not know if she is still left - like Senator De Biasi with regard to the critical culture and the spirit of science, which is never neutral. So maybe we should think about it. In the motions we put the question of animal welfare to highlight the fact that it is no longer possible to think of continuing to use the land in the world to produce soy and maize, in most cases to feed the animals and therefore the farms. When we put the question of animal welfare in intensive farms, we refer to the fact that in that type of farming there is a use and abuse of antibiotics, with all the imaginable consequences on human health. These are all themes that we have to realize and that have been put in these motions with much balance, themes that serve - these yes - to ensure that humanity thinks first of all to preserve the resources of this planet, curing the relationship, harmony and respect for other living species. Respect for biodiversity is the key to our survival. Just think about climate change: does anyone ever deal with the impact, for example, of farms on climate change? Let us pretend that there is no such thing, and yet we know perfectly well what the implications of water use, resource use and emissions are. We must therefore take a path that is made not only in general of sustainability and change of the development model, but at the Expo Italy should indicate a different path also compared to consumption and food. The issues that have been brought to the attention today by these motions are related to issues that I, frankly, as I believe many in this House, frankly cannot accept that they are being dismissed as ridiculous and useless, because I am beginning to be enough fed up with these arguments that come from people who never really want to deal with the issues to the full. The themes of research and of some foundations will be discussed in this House, through some motions that I will present, and then we will see what some scientific research is for, whether it is to save people or the pockets of pharmaceutical companies. Finally, I presented an agenda concerning the task force set up at the Ministry of Health, an important garrison that helped the Municipality and the territories in the fight against straying. We ask the Government to commit not only to not be dismantled, as unfortunately is happening, but also to be strengthened and equipped with all the necessary tools to do its job, which is what the Ministry should do to enforce the laws of this country. [[Applause from Senator Granaiola.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u83	She is registered to speak Senator Valentini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in support of the motion tabled by Senator Amati and other Senators, which I, too, have signed with conviction in a debate in which other motions have also been tabled. It seemed to me that this motion was an important occasion, for us who are here humbly and who have the task of representing the Senate, to have a serene discussion on a delicate subject: it was in fact seen as a very delicate topic, important also culturally. Therefore, I am a little sorry about Mr De Biasi's speech - and I am also sorry to see that he is not here at the moment - because in this debate we have tried to discuss the motions in question without ideological approaches and without prejudices. I therefore felt unfairly impressed, and I did not understand the reason for this intervention, but I think very much of my colleague, so we will have an opportunity to clarify ourselves. In any case, the occasion of the discussion of these motions has been important for us to grasp and value a clear principle of civilization, namely that the well-being of men and women, especially in today's complex and globalized societies, passes through the construction of a culture of respect for the environment and life, in all its forms and representations. The motion I am referring to is based on a very clear premise: protecting animal rights and their natural well-being. This is not only a right principle in itself, as it is based on respect for life defined by both science and by national and international norms as "sensient" but it is also the precondition for improving the quality of life of our communities, through the identification and construction of a different relationship between man and nature. This motion, in fact, apart from any ideological approach, invites the Government to take very clear and concrete steps to reconcile, in a new virtuous relationship and attentive to the social and ecological changes in place, the basic principle of respect for animal life with the protection of the needs of men and women. We do this by indicating a plurality of actions that can be schematically summarized in four main paths. Firstly, animal welfare must be safeguarded. This means introducing rules that increase the measures already in place or transpose those defined at the different levels of the Community, in terms of combating the ill-treatment of animals in all its forms, of protecting the quality of their lives in our cities and in our streets, for example against straying and the massacres of stray animals that unfortunately still take place in many of our territories, especially in the most abandoned ones. This means fighting environmental degradation where our people and our communities live, to put very strict quality criteria for circus activities, zoos and marine aquariums. The second course is identifiable in those rules which aim to protect the quality of life of farmed animals grown on Italian territory or which require additional quality criteria for the treatment of imported animal meat in life. These are standards designed to protect the quality of our food and consumer opportunities, for example through the implementation of European rural development programmes, and to help redesign a virtuous relationship between man and the environment. A project of economic and rural development: this means, for example, Expo di Milano, about which we talk a lot, that it ties well and that lets you understand well what I want to say all this. Furthermore, the third path aims to build a new business culture, based on social responsibility and a new conception of the relationship between industrial activities and the ecosystem we have inherited and which we have a duty to protect. I am referring, therefore, to new compatible development projects. The protection of animal welfare is, in fact, one of the prerequisites for improving this relationship. National and European companies must - as indicated by various Community acts - take this view as a basic form of the organisation of their economic activity, and the States and Regions must take it to define their own development support policies or - no less important - to assess the measures put in place. I am therefore referring to compatible development projects and I am thinking of an economy that is growing, but that is geared towards the direction that this land of ours needs. Finally, the last path concerns scientific research. In this respect, we must not go any further than the opposite, because scientific research must be supported, increased, improved and all institutions must support it. However, in this regard too, we must find a balance - as I have tried to call for in my brief speech - in order to improve the relationship between the individual, the human communities and the whole ecosystem. Above all, however, we must find that important balance, which we must seek, and I have seen that in the debate in this House we have all tried to do so, so that we can come to a different, better and healthier world. I therefore believe that this motion is important, because it is intended to indicate concrete, clear, balanced and reasoned measures; it is not a strange motion. However, I must say that today the debate in this House on all the motions presented has been addressed without any ideological approach - I did not seem to see any difficult moments from this point of view - but with the intention of helping to safeguard that environment of which, as men and women, we are part and to find that balanced point of arrival that serves the country and the world, that we as institutions have the duty to safeguard and protect for future generations in another way, with courage, without fears and forcings. I therefore believe that it is important to present these motions and to debate such a sensitive issue, because this country needs them and the House has seen very well how true this is.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u85	The debate is closed. The State Secretary for Health, De Filippo, will reply at a forthcoming meeting. I shall refer the following motions to the agenda at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u88	TAVERNA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to clarify to the Presidency, to the House and to my colleagues the nature of the motion on which I have heard President De Biasi speak in an absolutely inappropriate way for the requests made in it. I would like to reread them, so that we can make it clear to the House what we are going to vote on. Allow me to add that if there is still someone in this House who believes that if you try the X drug on a pig and get the Y solution, it will also happen in man, perhaps it feels very similar to pigs. And I can understand this belief for some, but I feel very human. So, I keep putting serious doubts about the fact that if there's a reaction on the pig, I'll have it too. The motion, however, in perfect transposition of the EU directive, says that: The Government undertakes to promote initiatives to inform and disseminate alternative methods to animal testing with the aim of progressively abandoning the use of animals for scientific purposes. Therefore, we are perfectly aware that, unfortunately, we still do experimentation on animals believing that we are doing something good. In addition, the motion calls for the promotion of ad hoc training courses for students so that they know that there are alternative methods. That is the nature of the motion. So when colleagues are asked to vote on it, let us get away from the preconceptions and vote on a useful document.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u91	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, when are we going to resume our speeches on this matter? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The debate is over, Senator. The follow-up of the examination is postponed until next Tuesday, when the reply of the representative of the Government, explanations of vote and the final vote will take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u94	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, unfortunately, 64-year-old Henrique Pizzolato will be extradited to Brazil on 11 May for a decision taken by the Ministry of Justice, despite petitions and appeals. This gentleman is serving a 13-year-old sentence in an Italian prison, which was inflicted on him in a Brazilian federal court. Since he was together with ministers, for crimes of money laundering, corruption and sin, he suffered a single degree of judgment and was denied both the appeal and the judgment of the Supreme Court. We have a record. Minister Castelli refused the extradition to Brazil of Pizzolato, who is an Italian citizen, for the inhuman conditions of those prisons; and recently, on 4 February 2015, the Senate ratified the convention with Brazil, which provides that Italian citizens can serve their sentence in Italy and not in Brazil. I ask and urge the Government to report before 11 May and therefore before the act of extradition of Pizzolato is carried out. It is indeed incomprehensible that, after it has been ratified and the Italian-Brazilian agreement has become law, there are precedents that have always denied extradition, and given the lack of the three degrees of judgment (having been involved in a story greater than him), Pizzolato is extradited, also in what seems to be one of the worst prisons in Brazil. I'm reporting this, strongly calling on the government to report as long as we're still in time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u95	That seems to me to be an extremely fair invitation. The Presidency will also give this signal to the Government with particular care.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u98	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, first we were talking about animals, and I am announcing other social butcher shops, always in the world of work. It happens in Massa Carrara, where 80 employees of the Nuovo Pignone pipeline will pass from one company to another of subcontracting with the risk of losing rights related to holidays and permits. Even, they may suffer wage cuts. For this reason the workers are in great apprehension and on the foot of war, and for this reason yesterday they strike and manifest themselves in front of the company. These 80 workers deal with the packaging of Pignone-GE Oil & Gas machinery. We are talking about proposals for lower wages of EUR 60-70 per month. And look, for these people, 60 or 70 euros is really a lot, unlike what they are for some of us in here. Therefore, these gentlemen may even see their wages lowered per month and be summarized with new contracts, which will of course bring enormous benefits to the company, but which for workers will be all on the downside of wages and law, and also seeing the basic protection of Article 18 snatched. Fire these workers from tomorrow, thanks to the jobs act, will become as easy as drinking a glass of water. And all this thanks to the crazy policies imposed by Renzi and company! You take away the rights and you don't reap the fruits. I read some figures just now: unemployment rose again by 13% in March, and unemployment among young people rose to 43.1%. Of the 80 workers of Massa Carrara, 50 are on permanent contracts and 30 are on fixed-term contracts. They're all workers in the area and surroundings. Workers are employed by a company of Caserta, TVA Packaging. The TVA came out of the contract for the Pignone and the workers were afraid, in fact, solutions of convenience that would want them summarized by the new subcontracting company. The contract has passed to the Consortium Toscana logistic, with center in Florence, that in turn has turned it to a third company, the FC Packaging of Benevento, company that casually has been active two nanoseconds ago, that it has undertaken to hire the workers, but with the new rules all to the decrease. I remember here that the government has given entrepreneurs a chance to hire, elarging important tax reliefs, EUR 8.060 per year for three years, and to fire with new contracts to protect increasing only with a snap of the fingers. But the downward butcher shop is not happening just for these workers of Massa Carrara... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. Mr Paglini (M5S). It's so close. I repeat, the downward butchery is not happening only for these workers of Massa, but throughout Italy and hundreds of companies. So, the workers are blackmailed, underpaid, exploited and defenseless. Therefore, I ask the citizens whether they realize, yes or no, now, where the crazy project of Renzi and of those today is leading them to the new world order. I ask the citizens and the workers to do anything, not to lower their guard and really realize that if we do not join in the fight, we are all losers. To the workers of Massa, to the 80 people who are at risk of being reduced their rights and the wage I wish a good fight. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u101	MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, we are also speaking today on the Indesit-Whirlpool issue and will do so every day in this House until the end of the negotiations. I will not repeat what has been said in previous speeches, both myself and Mr Puglia, but I want to update you on the situation. Last Monday, at the institutional table on 27 April, the company declared that it was willing to review the industrial plan that provided for the closure of three plants and the exubero of 1,350 employees. This is because on Monday, outside the MISE, there were more than 600 employees demanding that their rights be respected and, therefore, they needed to be kept good. And what did they do? They postponed the discussion to further meetings: 29 April and 8 May. Yesterday, at the first of these meetings, on 29 April, the company - happens to have - declared that, on the question of the closure of the plants and on the 1,350 redundancies, it is unmoved, but is willing to review the rest of the plan. This is a farce: it is not a negotiation between Whirlpool and the workers, but between the American Whirlpool and the Italian State. The company, in fact, wants to take advantage of this situation to ask the Italian State, perhaps through social shock absorbers, to prolong the agony of the workers for six months or a year. This is unacceptable. Yesterday's table was also attended by government representatives, who were silent, unarmed, inactive. It happens that the Italian Government was only active when it had to support the American Whirlpool to acquire the Italian company Indesit. At the time, he even stated that it was a fantastic operation. On 1 May the workers of the Indesit of Carinaro - the most penalized seat, with 815 workers at risk - organized a demonstration. I will be at their side, as the Five Star Movement for two years has been alongside these workers. I would like to point out to the Presidency and to this House that the 5 Star Movement has presented the urgent questioning, by abbreviated procedure, 2-00267, signed by the entire M5S Group, by 36 senators. We expect the Presidency and all the other groups to be able, out of conscience, to support the request that our Parent Company will make in the appropriate forums, at the next Conference of Leaders, to be able to discuss this questioning by next week, as also provided for in the Senate Rules. We demand, this time, that we have clear and certain answers from the Italian Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u102	Informally I tell you that perhaps - we still have to define it - the question time of next week will be precisely with Minister Guidi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u105	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, on 6 May in San Giorgio a Cremano and in many other municipalities in the province of Naples we will have to vote. It will determine whether or not to give the opportunity to identify the peers in an impartial manner and, therefore, through a secret draw or through appointments. Of course, choosing the direct appointment of the scanners and not the draw is - in our opinion - a double problem. The first is the suspicion of an exchange vote: I'll make you name and you vote for me. The second concerns the regularity and correctness of the composition of the section office. In fact, the searcher must be impartial in the performance of his task. We fear, on the other hand, if a political party names it, that the behavior of the peer may be slightly conditioned. The law provided, as a guarantee of each list or candidate, for the appointment of its own representatives, and not of the peers. We have fought to ensure that the drawing-out of the spectators among the citizens registered on the register can become the rule and not the exception. In fact, in this House, an amendment was voted on at the first signing of the undersigned, but then, unfortunately, the decree lapses. We warn these commissions: we will make the names and surnames of those who will oppose the possibility of having the searcher drawn and, therefore, under conditions of total impartiality. Who, in this committee, will oppose this proposal we will make names and surnames. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-440.ana.u106	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 14.08 p.m.
