ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1962, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Mirabelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda for this morning's Assembly is to examine the 2014 draft European law, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies on a proposal from the Government, with some changes to the original text. I would remind you that Law No 234 of 2012 provides that European law contains rules for direct implementation aimed at ensuring the adaptation... [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] I was saying that Law No 234 of 2012 provides that European law contains rules of direct implementation aimed at ensuring the adaptation of national law to European law, in particular with regard to cases of incorrect transposition of European legislation. In summary, European law may contain: amending or repealing provisions of existing state provisions contrary to the obligations arising from membership of the European Union; amending or repealing provisions of existing state provisions subject to infringement procedures necessary to ensure the application of acts of the European Union; provisions necessary to implement international treaties in the framework of the external relations of the European Union; provisions adopted in the exercise of the substitute powers referred to in the fifth paragraph of Article117 of the Constitution. The draft law under discussion includes provisions aimed at remedying cases of incorrect transposition of European legislation which have resulted in pre-infringement proceedings initiated under the EU Pilot system or genuine infringement, on which the Government has recognised the merits of the findings made by the European Commission. With regard to procedural aspects, as in the case of the Senate for the 2014 European delegation law, the text of the 2014 European bill approved by the Chamber of Deputies could allow the final approval of the two laws in due time, and then, since September, deal with both the delegation law and the 2015 European law, thus significantly reducing the delays accumulated in recent years, with obvious benefits also for the total number of pending infringement procedures. This approach was adopted by the 14th The Commission has very quickly examined and rejected the few amendments tabled, but it has allowed the Government to accept several agendas. In particular, the Government has accepted agendas No. 4 (text 2) concerning the age limit for driving motor vehicles, No. 5 on the green label for petroleum products, No. 7 (text 2) on the compensation by tour operators, No. 12 (text 2) on the definition of plants not prohibited by Directive 2009/147/EC on the capture of birds for recall purposes and No. 14 on the participation of the Italian Red Cross in the coordinated civil protection mechanism at European level. On the basis of the individual articles, Article 1 repeals five ministerial decrees governing the marketing in Italy of television receivers in analogue technology between 1984 and 1992. The reasons are linked, both to a pre-litigation initiated by the European Union in contrast to its harmonised legislation, and to the obsolescence of those standards after the completion in July 2012 of the digital transition. The rule protects competition. Article 2 eliminates the authorisation of the Ministry of Economic Development which is now necessary for the import of liquid finished petroleum products from countries outside the European Union. The rule, which provides for authorisations to be given according to criteria established by a subsequent implementation decree never issued, is the subject of a pre-litigation procedure because it is assessed contrary to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in the field of trade policy. Article 3 amends the communication code to simplify the authorisation regime for the provision of broadband connectivity services on board ships, with regard to the equipment that must be mentioned in the operating licence. Only in the case of mandatory or optional equipment designed to safeguard life at sea is a general authorisation subject to the requirements laid down by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport for the assignment to companies of the plant and the operation of the equipment. This solves the doubts raised by the Commission by making it clear that the authorisation system is only necessary for the necessary safety equipment. Article 4 regulates the allocation of rights of use for analogue radio broadcasting in medium waves with amplitude modulation: by adding a new article to the single text of audiovisual and radio media services, which allows the use of unused frequencies by the public concessionaire to new authorised parties, the open case with the European Union is resolved. Article 5 aims to close an infringement procedure in the area of administrative rights in the field of electronic communications covered by Article 34 of the Electronic Communications Code. Article 6 intervenes on the exclusion from the calculation of the limits of advertising crowding of promotional messages and trailer of European cinematographic works, limiting this exclusion to the occurrence of the double condition that the trailers have autonomous positioning in the programming and are not inserted within an advertising interruption. Article 7 aims to close the infringement procedure in which the European Commission argues that Article 147 (3 bis) of the Industrial Property Code hinders the freedom to provide services by requiring patent agents to elect their domicile exclusively in Italy. Article 8 amends the transitional rules applicable to direct exposures to local public services of economic importance provided for in Law No 221 of 17 December 2012. Article 9 provides for the obligation, as from 1 January 2016, that organised tourism contracts be assisted by insurance policies or bank guarantees. Article 10 provides that a foreign national of a non-EU State, in possession of a regular residence permit issued by another State of the European Union, who stays on national territory for more than three months permitted by law, if he does not comply with the order to return to the State which issued the permit, shall be forcibly expelled to the State of origin and not to the State which issued the permit. Article 11 deals with requirements for the issue of driving licences and requirements for examiners and removes certain restrictions on the driving of minors. Article 12 amends the tax treatment applicable to ancillary services relating to small consignments of a non-commercial character, as well as to consignments of negligible value referred to in Directives of the European Community no. 79 of 2006 and 132 of 2009. Article 13 amends specific provisions contained in Articles 38 and 41 of Decree-Law No 331 of 1993 in order to overcome the findings of the European Commission concerning intra-Community acquisitions and non-taxable intra-Community supplies, with regard to transactions for the transfer of goods between Member States for the effect of expert opinions or usual processing or handling operations. Article 14 concerns the establishment of the national register of aid, which collects information to allow controls on State aid and de minimis aid. Article 15, in implementation of the Union decision on compensation for public service obligations exempted from prior notification to the European Commission, gives the President of the Council the task of ensuring compliance with the monitoring and reporting obligations to the Commission. Article 16 lays down specific measures for safety at work at temporary or mobile construction sites. In particular, it redefines the cases of exclusion from the scope of the current discipline, referred to in Legislative Decree No. 81 of 9 April 2008. In particular, it excludes works relating to electrical installations, water, gas and so on, which do not involve construction work or civil engineering and do not fall within the scope of the current legislation, where workers are exposed to risks to safety or health. Article 17 supplements the transposition of Directive No 13 of 2009 of the European Community, implementing the Agreement concluded by the Association of Shipowners of the European Community and the European Transport Workers' Federation. Article 18 concerns periods of pension contributions completed on the basis of employment relationships between the Union or Switzerland in international organisations. Article 19 deals with the identification systems for bovine animals in order to implement Directive No 64 of 2014 of the European Union. Article 20 regulates the situation of genetically modified organisms in the light of the implementation of European Union Directive 412 of 2015, which is the subject of delegation in the European delegation law 2014. Paragraph 1 provides that the Minister of Agricultural Policies shall require the European Commission, by 3 October 2015, to adapt the geographical scope of the notifications or applications submitted or the authorisations for the cultivation of GMOs already granted before 2 April 2015. Paragraph 2 provides that, by decree, the same Ministry may restrict or prohibit the cultivation of a GMO or a group of GMOs. Paragraph 3 lays down penalties for infringements of the prohibitions introduced. Paragraph 4 confirms that the prohibitions of cultivation introduced with acts already adopted also in a precautionary way remain. Article 21 deals with the infringement procedure relating to the catching of birds for the purpose of recall, definitively prohibiting the use of methods that do not allow the selection of species and not provided for in the regulations for the benefit of the creation of farms. Article 22 deals with the dispute that the European Union is making to our country about the lack in the legislation of the prohibition of trade of species of birds not included in the Italian wildlife, but still protected by Community directives. Article 23 sets out a series of specific changes to the rules on packaging and packaging waste contained in Title II of Part Four of Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006. Article 24 deals with the EU Pilot case, which concerns the geological storage of carbon dioxide. Article 25 deals with infringement proceedings requiring Member States to maintain a minimum level of stocks of crude oil and/or petroleum products. Article 26 amends the decree transposing the so-called third energy package, strengthening the powers of the energy authority and its independence from the Ministry of Economic Development in the matter of the ten-year plan for the development of the electricity grid, regulating the balance of economic merit, access to cross-border infrastructures, financial administrative sanctions and replacement of the operator of the natural gas transmission system in the case of a persistent breach of its obligations. Finally, there is a rule to protect consumers who change the supplier of electricity and natural gas. Article 27 regulates the participation of Italy in the European Union mechanism for civil protection intervention, authorizes the commitment of means and experts of the national service, authorises the Head of the Civil Protection Department to activate and coordinate those resources. Article 28 is a fund designed to bring our legal system into line with European legislation in a timely manner. The fund is financed with €10 million in 2015 and €50 million annually from 2016. These resources will cover the burdens arising from the transposition of Community rules. Article 29 amends Articles 2, 31 and 36, which relate respectively to the Interministerial Committee on European Affairs, the time limits for the exercise of the legislative powers conferred by the European delegation law and the procedure for the implementation of implementing acts of the European Union containing technical adaptation rules. Finally, Article 30 contains the financial invariance clause. In conclusion, I hope that this House will be able to proceed quickly with the adoption of the 2014 draft European law, thus allowing progress to be made towards the progressive reduction of the number of open infringement procedures, and to avoid the opening of new procedures. The adoption of this bill would thus be in parallel with the swift definitive approval by the Chamber of Deputies of the bill of European delegation 2014, with a view, also, to the presentation, after the summer break, by the Government, of the draft European law and the delegation for 2015, so that the new requirements of conformation of the national order can be brought together with that of the European Union. Finally, I would ask you to hand over the full text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the documents. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u10	The Presidency authorizes you to do so, Senator Mirabelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u11	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, my fellow Senators, the mere presence of Article 10 of this draft law should be our vote against the measure, but the need to transpose certain rules that adapt our order to the European one will lead us to a vote of abstention. However, I would like to draw my attention to Article 10. It provides that a non-EU foreigner, in possession of a regular residence permit issued by another Member State of the European Union, who stops in Italy for more than three months permitted by law, if he does not comply with the order to return to the Member State, is forcibly expelled to the State of origin or origin and not to the State which issued the residence permit, as currently provided for by our law. The forced return of the foreigner to the Member State of the Union which issued the residence permit and not to the third country of origin of the person concerned is only possible in the case of bilateral readmission agreements or agreements already in force before 13 January 2009, i.e. the existence of Directive 2008/115/EC (the so-called Return Directive). The transposition follows an open infringement procedure as Italy would not have complied with the relevant provisions of the Return Directive. We are challenged by the failure to transpose into the single immigration text the rules that allow expulsion to other European countries and not only to the countries of origin of the immigrant. In the absence of bilateral agreements or arrangements, these expulsions to Europe cannot be implemented. That is, Europe requires us to transpose its directives, as if they were a higher entity, but then countries, among themselves, despite the many EU treaties, despite Schengen, must find bilateral agreements or agreements. We wonder what Europe is talking about. We have seen how France has been able, by applying and/or interpreting this rule, in recent months, to reject migrants registered in Italy and who intended to cross the French border at Ventimiglia. France is among the Member States with which Italy has concluded bilateral readmission agreements or agreements, plus Austria, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Croatia, Estonia, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain and Hungary. On the contrary, we must keep not only the foreigners we register in Italy, but also those who enter our country with permits issued by European consulates in their lands of origin. Then we ask ourselves why we have to transpose rules that penalise us on expulsions and we have to undergo the "ready" of the obligation to keep in our country the applicants for international protection that cannot depart from the country in which they have submitted the application for protection, that is, in this case from Italy. It is a rule that runs counter to the state of affairs and the dispute that Italy should, on the contrary, open up to the European Union. Once again, we are being challenged by a common sense procedure. Once again the shortsighted or over-bureaucratic Europe does not realize what the border territories are and which countries suffer the most imposing part of immigration, consequence of wars and occupations of some countries of North Africa and the Middle East, but also of a big and dirty business on human beings put in place by criminal organizations. Once again Europe imposes constraints on our country, careless of the load that is bringing the migration phenomenon to Italy in terms of economic, social and organizational costs. The most unusual thing, however, is the schizophrenia with which the Renzi Government is operating in the field of immigration. European law became Law No 161 of 30 October 2014 laying down provisions for the fulfilment of the obligations arising from Italy's membership of the European Union, lays down provisions on immigration and, in particular, the transposition of the Return Directive. Article 3, in particular, deals with various provisions on the expulsion of irregular aliens in order to adapt the provisions of the Single Text on immigration to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 6 December 2012 (so-called Sagor case), which found that certain provisions of the Single Text on immigration were incompatible with Directive 2008/115/EC. Other rules concerning return are considered by the European Agenda for Migration which is also a Community act and is still under consideration by the 1st Senate Commission. Further names are in the draft legislative decree on international protection, which is also being examined by the 1st Commission. We realize that the draft law under consideration has been presented in accordance with the provisions of Law No 234 of 24 December 2012 on the participation of Italy in the training and implementation of EU legislation and policies. This law provides, in fact, for the annual presentation by the Government, together with the bill of European delegation, of a European bill, which contains rules for direct implementation aimed at ensuring the adaptation of national law to European law, with particular regard to cases of incorrect transposition of European legislation. Just as we realize that the provisions aimed at remedying cases of incorrect transposition of EU legislation into national law that have led to pre-infringement and infringement proceedings have been included here, where the Government has recognised the merits of the findings made by the European Commission. But we also realize that, in the letter of formal notice, the European Commission has challenged further objections, with regard to the shortcomings of the effective monitoring system of forced returns, the failure to prepare arrangements for the removal of citizens detained during the prison sentence and subsequent detention of ex-convicts after their release, and material conditions for the detention of immigrants. These are all open questions that require a very powerful organization on the reception (the centres, on which the light of the judiciary has also risen) and on the monitoring, but also on the recognition, on which, without prejudice to the Italian management, Europe must also play its part. What we do not understand is the urgency to transpose this rule and therefore we mainly contest the location and the times. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European law 2014 that we are examining today consists of 30 articles dealing mainly with infringements and pre-infringement procedures, so-called EU Pilot, related to EU legislation. It is, of course, in the national interest to resolve these cases in the best possible way in order not to incur concrete economic sanctions by the European Union. Each article therefore deals precisely with one of these procedures and each one deserves a dedicated discussion. However, in order not to exceed the time available to me and above all to bring to your attention a couple of issues that I think are particularly interesting, I will mention only Articles 2 and 10. Article 2 is repealing paragraph 6 of Article 36 of Decree-Law No 83, converted, with amendments, by Law No 134 of 7 August 2012. This paragraph reads as follows: With effect from 1 January 2013, the import of liquid finished petroleum products from countries not belonging to the European Union is subject to authorisation by the Ministry of Economic Development after consulting the Customs Agency, issued on the basis of criteria determined by decree of the Ministry of Economic Development. The Decree identifies the minimum requirements for obtaining authorisation, also taking into account the adherence of the external production plant for imported petroleum products to the environmental, workers' health and safety requirements laid down in the Community framework for production facilities located within the Community. This decree-law clearly raised the question of equalizing the oil productions of EU countries with those of non-EU countries, also on the basis of the issues of the environment, health and safety of workers. Only if environmental protection and workers' protection in plants producing refined non-EU petroleum products are equivalent to those of the EU would it be permitted to import into Italy. Otherwise - let's face it - it would be unfair competition against national productions subject to more stringent regulations. The import of refined petroleum products is a market distortion if their production has inherently lower costs due to lower environmental protection and less protection than workers in such non-European plants. This Italian choice has been challenged by the European Union, by an EU-Pilot procedure, not so much on the substance of the measure, but because the subject, under Article 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, has been assessed under the exclusive competence of the Community as regards trade policy. It is questionable whether this is the case and not already, as stated in advance in 2012 by the Italian Government at the time, rather of competing competence as it is also a matter of environmental protection. Meanwhile, Italy is promoting recognition through the so-called green label for all European products compared to those of emerging countries; in this way, products obtained from European industrial processes certified from the point of view of environmental and energy sustainability are not comparable to those of other non-EU areas, without such obligations. In this situation in the 14th Commission, my order of the Day was approved, which commits the Government to this end, namely to ensure that the importation of finished liquid petroleum products from countries outside the European Union takes place in accordance with the principles of the Union itself and that, therefore, it takes particular account of the respect of environmental protection guarantees, as well as the health of workers and their safety. The commitment is also to take action at the appropriate institutions of the European Union in order to promote the Italian proposal to use the concept of green labels to be attributed to refined products in Europe, thus ensuring a quality guarantee in environmental terms, which could constitute a competitive and concrete strength against the placing on the European market of products that are socially, environmentally and economically unsustainable. The choice is therefore to introduce a positive concept (green label products, with what follows in terms of environmental protection and workers) and not in negative (i.e. the import ban) for refined petroleum products. I hope that this strategy will be accepted in Europe and that it will be effective. The other article considered is the 10, which deals with Italy's obligation, in the absence of bilateral agreements, to expel to the country of non-EU origin those who, although they are regular residents in another EU country, dwell more than three months in the national territory and do not immediately respect the order of return to the European country of residence. I would like to point out at once that I consider the European norm to be excessively penalising for those who, outside the EU, are fully resident in the European Union, but for various reasons (for example, for their own health or loved ones) are forced to spend more than ninety days on Italian territory. This will result in forced repatriation to the country of origin and not to the country of regular residence in the EU. This means that the foreigner holding a residence permit issued by another EU State will be treated in the same way as all other aliens who are expelled, perhaps as a security measure or as a substitute sanction or alternative to a criminal penalty. Therefore, all non-EU foreigners are treated in the same way, whether they are totally irregular and perhaps constitute a threat to Italy, or persons integrated in another European country and long resident in another EU country. For all, forced return to the non-EU country of origin is foreseen: an absolutely excessive penalty, from my point of view, but that is what European legislation lays down. Actually, the only exception is only in the case of bilateral agreements between Italy and some other EU countries prior to 2009, which allow return to the country of residence. An assessment, therefore, not already linked to the person, his history and personal situation, but merely linked to international agreements. Even self-injury seems to me to be the application of this forced return to extra-EU foreigner holding EU blue card. In fact, the blue card is granted to foreigners under European Directive No 50 of 2009. The aim of the Directive is to increase the European Union's capacity to attract third-country nationals who wish to carry out highly skilled work. It is therefore in the interests of the Union and not only of the foreigner that their presence, residence and professionalism be and remain within the EU to carry out highly qualified work. Pragmatically we need it; our economy needs it. However, it will be sufficient for these workers to exceed the limit of ninety days in Italy by a few days to have to leave the Union, perhaps even putting European employers in difficulty. On my agenda, I propose that the legislation on long-term residents also be extended to EU Blue Card holders in order to avoid forced return to the non-EU country of origin. In conclusion, I do not believe that this is the way to combat the presence of unauthorized foreigners in the national territory because - I think it is peaceful - most of them are not foreign holders of regular residence permits issued by another EU State who hold back more than they should in Italy. On the other hand, the vast majority of unauthorized foreigners are persons who have no right to stay in the European Union. On the other hand, hitting regular residents so hard seems useless, inhuman and, for blue card holders, even self-injury for the interests of the EU itself. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u13	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the law we are about to discuss is made up of 30 articles, divided into twelve Heads, divided by subject matter; and it closes 14 infringement cases and ten pre-infringement cases or EU pilots. The issues covered are very different so I will not delay to discuss them one by one; if necessary we will take care to intervene on the individual articles. As we know, these are rules designed to ensure that national law is properly aligned with European law and the objective is to remove cases of pre-infringement or infringement that weigh on citizens' pockets. In fact, it is also true that if the government did its work carefully in the ascending phase, then it would participate in European legislation, and if it were ready to transpose from time to time the directives on which it participated, so that it already knows, perhaps we would no longer need these European laws. We hope that this will no longer be necessary in the future. Instead, at this moment we are in a situation in which Italy has opened 97 infringement procedures, 74 of which for infringement of EU law and 23 for failure to transpose. Despite the great announcements at the beginning of the parliamentary term, this Government has not been able to proceed in an accelerated manner on this front. We also recall that, although there is a slow pace with regard to the acquisition of European procedures, when it comes to transposing scallop treaties such as fiscal compact and putting balance of the budget in the Constitution, the previous governments and the current have always been very fast, as they are in this period to complete the famous Transatlantic trade and investment partnership (TTIP), a free trade treaty that has no weight of the possible impact on Italian agriculture because, in fact, to date, a country impact study does not exist. We are therefore running towards the abyss of a European treaty whose content no one knows and whose consequences, as usual, will probably be borne by workers' citizens, farmers and small businesses. We do not understand why there is this inertia in transposing regulations all in all reasonable, when then there is a hurry to put the noose around the neck. Let us also remember that, paradoxically, it is citizens who pay so many times for these failures. The first time they pay it because they are not informed, in fact this government and in general the previous governments never take the burden of informing citizens about what Europe is, what European procedures are and what these directives are coming. They pay it in another way: let us remember that an infringement procedure is open for the waste cycle. While in Europe the waste cycle considers incineration to be the last resource for waste - and it has already sanctioned us for illegal landfills in Campania - we insist - you who have voted to unblock Italy - on this path and to consider incineration the solution for waste: this we will pay both in health and in infringement procedures. Therefore, citizens pay because they do not know, they pay because they do not have rules that protect their health and we only transpose rules that only put noose around their necks and infringement procedures. These constitute a pecuniary penalty consisting of a huge lump sum (40 million euros), to which must be added a penalty of 42 million euros for every six months delay in the implementation of the measures necessary to comply with the judgment. We are talking about a huge amount of money that citizens have to pay for your failure. In this regard, I would like to mention - we believe that it is not all citizens who have to pay for infringement procedures - the fact that the 5 Star Movement presented a complaint to the Court of Auditors for erarial damage following the decision of the European Court of Justice that on 16 July 2015 condemned Italy on the case relating to waste management in Campania, imposing on us the payment of these huge amounts. We have pointed out to the accounting judiciary that those responsible for the erarial damage are not the citizens - therefore, it is not them who have to pay - but are the presidents of the Campania Region protempore and the Presidents of the Council acting at the time and the various extraordinary commissioners to the emergency. Therefore, we propose to this Government to implement regulations for which the damages of infringement procedures are paid by those directly responsible and not by the citizens. There are other disturbing elements of these European laws. We have said that Europe is a stepmother, that we must participate in European legislation and, therefore, it would be expected that in this Parliament, at the time when a European law is proposed, acts will be fully public. This is not because the Government, in fact, has secreted all acts relating to infringement procedures and EU Pilot cases. We, Members of Commission 14a, are only allowed to consult them in the Commission's offices without being able to copy them or disseminate them among the citizens. We are therefore faced with a case in which the Government prevents its Members from participating in European legislation. In this regard, I would like to remind you that I have tabled a question - the act of inspection union 4-201933 - concerning the lack of transparency in this context and the failure to comply with the law of 24 December 2012, n. 234, which requires the Government to involve Parliament in European legislation (which in this country is not happening and which is extremely serious). We reserve the obligation and commitment to ensure that this does not happen with regard to the next European law. The acts of infringement must all be public and it is Parliament that must decide what are priorities and put them together in European law. Once included in the law, all documentation must be public. Otherwise, this is all a fiction. Madam President, I shall begin by concluding, without going into the individual articles of the measure. I call on the Government, on the occasion of the next delegation law and the next European law, to take account of oppositions, which are part of this Parliament and represent citizens. On European issues, we must ensure that the Europe we want is achieved, that all Members of this House, whether by majority vote or by opposition, have access to acts. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tremonti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech is unprepared and rather improvised, but I would still like to speak. Some data are inaccurate but, as an indication, I note that the Official Journal 2014 is extended for 11,092 pages and is spread over 694 square meters. This gives the idea of a perhaps excessive dimension to European legislation. The measure is in line with continuity - absolute continuity - with that choice of legislative policy. If we reflect, we see that in this legal phenomenology there is the key to entering the mysterium of the crisis in Europe. We are unifying what absolutely does not need to be unified (ordinary case studies on this matter, always ridiculous), while we have not unified what is absolutely necessary to unify. Therefore, we did not do what would have been essential for a real union - "Articles of Confederation" - while we did what is absolutely superfluous: the opposite, for example, of what happened in the United States of America, which unified the railways and timetables, but not the crustaceans. In this text there is a grotesque and paradoxical passage and indeed, in some way, irresponsible. Article 9 regulates package holidays, while Article 10 lays down provisions on immigration. I suggest at least the choice of removing the two articles, because this mix is truly tragic. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It's irresponsible: it's not editorial, it's mental. Incidentally, I believe that none of us, drawing up an article, paragraph or paragraph, would be able to explain its real content, so cryptic and complex. Do you think an entrepreneur understands that? If the legislator does not understand it, it is difficult for an artisan, an entrepreneur or a consumer to understand it. More seriously, it is perhaps not clear enough that we are entering a suicidal system. We are building the perfect market, while around the world and from the outside the exact opposite is being built: the perfect monopoly, the sovereign funds, the oligarchies and the economies of command. We are building here the ideal form of something that never existed in history and does not exist in the present time. In fact, something previous is in history: the Middle Ages. The Middle Ages was a system like the present one, segmented for specific legal elements: there were not the rights of the person, but those of the nobleman, of the cleric, of the Jew. There was a whole territory segmented and blocked by duties, excise duties and passages. The legal Enlightenment and then the great bourgeois codes simplified everything in a single term: person means mask; natural person and legal person are the terms that are used in that logic of simplification of legislative policy to overcome the Middle Ages. In Marx's capital city there is a deep nostalgia for the colorful feudal bonds that characterized that era, distinguishing it from the industrial age that was opening. I really believe that we are taking the opposite path, namely a new form of the Middle Ages, artificial, not based on ancient natural superstitions, but on Community, legislative, demential and technocratic superstitions. You wonder why there is no GDP in Europe? Perhaps a doubt might come or perhaps a hypothesis of solution. Perhaps there is no GDP for many reasons, but also because we are blocking and this bill is a partial, but symptomatic, example. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u18	Madam President, I think that Mr Tremonti's speech is very enlightening in its synthesis and effectiveness with regard to the draft law we are dealing with. You see, President, many people in here are filling their mouths by making us believe that this is a step forward towards growth, an evolution of the country for a very good Europe, better than what we are, and therefore, by adapting our regulations to European ones, we automatically become better ourselves; with this actually losing sight of the content, going a lot to speak in abstract terms and little adherents to reality. For example, we are perhaps losing sight of the fact that we are really talking about the adaptation of Italian regulations - starting from a very simple subject, without necessarily going to touch them all - to ban the traditional habit of spit rather than the inhaling of birds for hunting. These are the issues that we are dealing with with with this legislation, while in the meantime in international newspapers Europe speaks with a voice called troika, which is called the debt of Greece, which is called fiscal compact, finance, bank: other issues, far from the banality of the arguments we are dealing with with with this measure, however with real paradoxes. Indeed, if President Renzi continues to tell us one day yes and the other that Italy needs reforms in order to earn credit at the European level - as if we were eternal debtors - and with this power to have greater margins for economic recovery, there is a question, that is, why all those measures that the President of the Council of Ministers speaks of do not find hospitality in this bill, but rather are treated extraneously. If the reforms correspond to the lowering of taxes, which in turn corresponds to economic growth, that is to say, what the European Union is asking Italy, well, what we are dealing with is European law; what we approved a few weeks ago was the law of European delegation, so all the reforms should be brought back within this track. It's not like that. I have the doubt, verifying these situations, that this is a work - let us also call it - of formal respect, without a full relationship between what we are going to approve and how much the real country lives. Once again Senator Tremonti was right (and I congratulate him) in highlighting a simple point. Article 2 laying down provisions on imports of finished liquid petroleum products from third countries. Case EU Pilot 3799/12/TRADE..., paragraph 1 provides that paragraph 6 of Article 36 of Decree-Law No 83, converted, with amendments, by Law No 134 of 7 August 2012, is repealed. This is the content. A bureaucracy regulation that is added to bureaucracy legislation. If a Europe has a sense of existence, it is a Europe of peoples, a Europe that respects people, not a Europe that is homologating and simply bureaucratic that wants everything to regiment and frame. Otherwise, you really get to the paradox of telling people what time they have to wake up in the morning to synchronize across Europe, then losing sight of the fact that people have no work, losing sight of the fact that people cannot find a job because there is a European system set up on finance and not, as our Constitution says, on work. You see, Madam President, there are many paradoxes that lead this law not only to lag behind what Europe is demanding with the 72 open infringement procedures, 23 of which due to non-transposition, but to being behind the same story. The history of men and people's lives has gone far beyond this kind of exquisitely bureaucratic, formal and regulatory adjustment. Once again, if we transpose the rules in here to put ourselves on par with Europe as regards tour operators and travel, let us look at ourselves instead from going to address issues such as the fiscal equation that should instead be equal among all countries. With real paradoxes, so it is taken for example of the Made in Italy, also by the President of the Council Renzi, FIAT and, let us add, for a few days also Ferrari, that in Italy no longer have either the tax office or the administrative one, because they have moved to London and Holland, where there is a more convenient tax regime: having the seat in those countries, within the European Union, produces a fiscal advantage. In other words, this is called unfair competition within the same European system. A European system, Madam President, which leads us to the paradox of a country, such as Greece or Italy, which is called to respond to its own debt, losing sight of the fact that there is a country that has been overgrowth for years and that is in violation of so much equal, namely Germany. Because if on the one hand you have to get in line growing, on the other hand you don't have to grow too much, otherwise you crush other countries. But this issue is not addressed. It is a Europe made up of many paradoxes, which we do not like at all. It is a Europe in which Italy, always in order to comply with European regulations, recognizes to the prisoners that they have not found themselves comfortable enough in the patrie galere 2800 euros a year, arriving, after 41 years, to a sentence on the massacre of piazza della Loggia. These are the real paradoxes of the country, which alienate us from a Europe that should really be shared by the peoples and, I add and will remember it on every occasion, preventing the peoples from expressing themselves. There are also real paradoxes, because the other day we saw what our Government has of Europe and what Europe has of Italy. I am referring to the time when the Interior Minister Alfano went to Europe to conclude those agreements that were to distribute in other European countries the so-called refugees but, in reality, he returned home even with the commitments he failed to comply with the agreements made by the Heads of Government Summit. But it is Minister Alfano himself who denies his willingness to come to this House to report on the clashes that have led the citizens of Treviso and Rome to take the batons because they wanted to oppose the invasion of their homes and neighborhoods, but he finds an hour to go on Sky to inflate his chest to say how good he is, because they arrested two ISIS affiliates, and to say that they will be hard on the hullers. This is not a serious government, it does not give a serious representation of the country towards Europe; it is simply like that erculine that swells the chest but in fact is small. This isn't happening. It was better that he had been quiet, Minister Alfano, instead of going to be a sledgehammer. The Minister of the Interior prefers to use prefects as batons, without remembering that a prefect was called Manganelli and was much more serious than the conception he has of prefects; he who, to prove himself strong and muscular, wants to replace them if they do not respond to his dictates, forgetting that a short time ago the President of the Council of Ministers said that he wants to take away the powers of prefects to give them to the mayors. These are the paradoxes of the government and then they are behind the approval of the legislation under consideration. Madam President, I am referring to the paradoxes of a government that has attention to the repeal of regulations that prohibit traditions such as spit and hunting in reality that have much more at heart the environment and nature than those so-called environmentalists and some radical-chic cultures present here in the Senate, losing sight of the fact that this is a country that instead willingly submits itself to the lobbies. In fact, we are talking here about jobs act, as we have done once again with European triumphalism, to say that we are for the regularization of work, that there must be no irregular work, but then we are the same country that very obsequiously bows its head to realities like those of Uber. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I am thinking of that junk that wants to cross the work of honest and regular taxi drivers, perhaps also going to offer lunches and dinners to parliamentarians and government representatives, because these are the actions put in place by the lobbying within Parliament and under the political forces. We should have some respect for the work on this. No, Madam President, this is not happening. We shall then see in the amending phase how the rest of the amendments will be taken into account. We do not like this Europe of banks; we do not like this Europe that approves everything and that wants everything grey, a grey clay to be able to maneuver and deform it for its own use and consumption. Italy is already paying too much for Europe's costs, and I am not just referring to taxes that are paid in Europe. Let us always remember that when it comes to European funds we are talking about the money of Italians, not the resources of other European countries that are spent in Italy; moreover, we pay again for the sanctions that Europe has imposed on Russia. We would like a debate on this. We also hope that these aspects of mere bureaucratic transposition will be achieved at least by following the correct deadline, since we are talking about the European law of 2014, while we are in 2015 and we should have put our eyes forward towards the future. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u19	Senator Carraro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u20	Madam President, Mr Piccinelli, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, will explain the position of the Forza Italia Group in the final explanation of vote in particular of the measure, while I will speak quickly about Europe. In the last century tensions between some European countries have led to two world wars that have brought millions and millions of deaths around the world. Some enlightened Europeans, such as Spinelli, De Gasperi, Adenauer and Schumann, at the end of the Second World War thought that the idea of a united Europe could constitute a great bulwark for peace; then they realized that the least difficult issue to address and on which perhaps the agreements could be made was that of the economy: it was discussed before coal and steel. With great emotion in 1956 in Rome on the Capitol, in the halls of flags, the agreement that gave life to the European Community was signed. Then we moved on to the euro and here again there was a lot of enthusiasm and much expectation, the Maastricht Treaty was approved, objectives were set. At the beginning of the 2000s the Italians realized that the exchange rate was probably unfavorable to our country and that it created problems for us. We arrived in 2008, the world crisis caused by the failure of Lehman Brothers. The mature economies, those of the older countries, were the most affected. We have seen, however, that the United States of America and Japan have faced the crisis by introducing money into the liquidity system, suggesting that we do not make accountant reasonings, but perhaps accumulate debts to revive the economy. The ECB fought against inflation. The governor of the ECB, Trichet, up to 2011 at each quarterly meeting increased or did not decrease the discount rate, saying that our enemy was inflation. All Europeans realized then that we were in crisis and that we were starting to deflation, which came later. Draghi understood that the system had to be changed, but he had difficulty moving: he took measures, he lowered the discount rate, then finally we arrived at quantitative easing, but it is a compromise, because in reality most Europeans think that even today the enemy is inflation. The same plan Juncker - yesterday we talked about it in 14a The Commission - it is an attempt, but it is itself a compromise, because there are always those who want to go to the right and those who, vice versa, want to go to the left, those who want to develop and those who say that instead we have to fight against inflation. We are absolutely in the middle of the ford. Let me give a small example: on the question of the use of cash it would be normal and common sense that in all the countries where the euro is used there were the same rules, but no, sir, it is not so, since while one thing happens in Italy, something different happens in Spain, something else in France, Germany and so on. With regard to the issue of immigrants, which is certainly an important problem, we see that Europe does not agree. I think it was a very good thing that an agreement was finally reached for Greece, but what message has arrived at the people, at those who inform and follow things, even if perhaps with a little superficiality? The message that has arrived is that Greece has made sacrifices, that it has given that country 7 billion funding to know two days after Greece returned the money to the ECB and the International Monetary Fund. We know that this was normal, but we have to realise that people's perception is that the sacrifices that were imposed on Greece have been used to return money to the ECB and international bodies. I still believe that Europe is a great opportunity for a future of peace and social well-being. I have the impression that the majority of Europe's citizens in the North, the Centre and the South of Europe, even if for different reasons, perceive Europe as a stepmother. I believe that the national governments of Europe, but above all the European bodies, must raise this problem, must work and change the current situation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u21	Senator Bertuzzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u22	Madam President, I start from one of the comments made by my previous colleagues to say that, since reading European law, we have some problems interpreting its contents; let alone if this can be communicated directly to the citizens. I think that's an understatement. The theme of normative language and its complexity is not the result of a deliberately incomprehensible writing. It is the result of a path that over time has stratified the norms forcing us today, even in the face of adaptation articles, to resort, especially in our national legislation, to references, numbers of paragraphs and articles that make incomprehensible the immediate reading of the norm. So it is hypocritical to refer to this as saying that these are not rules for citizens. This is the usual way of simplifying a high complexity. The description of this habit and the impoverishment it is bringing into our consciences has been well described in the intervention of Senator Zavoli yesterday. In this complexity there are two modes of behavior: there are those who want to simplify it, creating fears to lead to an attitude of rejection, resistance and closure; there are those who, in the face of complexity, try instead to give a conscious reading, not to forget where we are and who we want to be. I have listened very carefully to Senator Carraro and I appreciate his wish to make Europe the Europe of the peoples, the Europe that the citizens expect. But with regard to this responsibility we must stop referring exclusively to the behaviour of governments, to all the faults of the institutions and begin to take a little responsibility ourselves, representatives of the Assembly elected by the Italian citizens, in the messages we give each time about our belonging to Europe. I believe that the biggest bet this Government is facing and its majority is to want to change our way of being within the European Union. I think it is a lie, a hypocrisy to say that the introduction of these new instruments, European law and delegation law, was an indifferent step. On the other hand, I think that they are two important instruments, which have taken the sign, that have made us take the right path, that of coordinating methods and times of a descending phase that has determined and determines for us, on the one hand, costs for our country, but on the other hand, also of the mismatches with our relations with other countries within the Union. They are therefore taking important steps in these ways. The fact that in September we are already talking about the European law of 2015, and also looking at the regulations that we are going to transpose with this Community law, many of which bear the date 2014, means that we are coordinating and harmonizing the times of European legislation with the time of its transposition. What needs to be emphasized at the moment is the need to attach to Community law technical content at a descending stage, since these are rules where the phase of participation and sharing has been upstream. But I think it can become an opportunity to go and see the ascending process, which sometimes puts us in a bit of trouble. I am dealing with the primary sector and the agri-food sector, which account for 40% of the budget resources in Europe. So there is a direct and important interest on the part of all countries, but it is taking on a value that goes beyond the sector because more and more the reasonings related to the primary sector and its production methods appear related to the issue of the health of citizens. I would like to give an example of European law today in our examination, and in particular Article 19 thereof. It is quite simply said in the report that this is a rule which should in some way harmonise data on the registration of bovine animals. This is the transposition of a 2014 directive, which amends another European legislation of 2000. In Italy we have applied the legislation of 2000: in our country there are therefore seven animal anagraphs, which were started in the same year. As far as cattle are concerned, which is specifically mentioned in this standard, we have the unique identification codes. The transposition of this Directive therefore highlights the lack of a link with the state of play in this area in the various Member States within the European Union. Article 19 therefore amends the rules for the identification of bovine animals and requires Member States to make technical instruments available to farmers so that they can become mandatory by 2019. So what happens to our country? I'm sorry to go into detail, but I think this example makes the idea. In our country about 6 million cattle are slaughtered a year, we already have the unique identification code and we already use electronic tools. This rule tells us that by 2019 all EU Member States will have to make electronic instruments available. In the meantime, what happens to our country, which imports 1.5 million calves from France? If the adaptation to the legislation in France is different from the Italian one, we do not know how to deal with the construction of the registry for those calves coming from a country where the deadline for the adaptation is fixed in 2019: we remember, above all, that the norm is limited to saying that the various countries can make these instruments mandatory. This attitude is the result of Europe's difficulty in making precise choices. Our country is setting all its agricultural policy on quality, to which is linked the traceability and recognizability of products. Alongside the economic issue, there is also the issue of the health of citizens. I therefore believe that we should not be so concerned or concerned about a descending phase in the application of European legislation, which shows that we are on the right track, but we should be concerned and concerned about our ability, at an upward stage, to build a broader consensus, compared to a Europe, which perhaps needs to take some further on the issues of food safety and citizens' health. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u23	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u24	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u25	Madam President, if I may say so, I think of course that every subject is legitimate and that the political debate is also a matter for discussion in this House, but let me say with some regret that in today's debate, apart from a few speeches, such as that of Senator Bertuzzi and Mr Orellana, the importance of the measure in our examination has somehow been underestimated. This law, of course, does not solve the problems of Europe, European integration, development, future or austerity, but it is important. It is an important law because it helps to improve our legislation. It is an important law because it intervenes directly on issues that affect the daily lives of citizens and of this country. We discuss many laws in this House, but this is one which, on many issues, has a direct impact on the lives of our country's citizens and businesses and not only because, acting directly to resolve European infringements, we bring economic savings to the state's coffers but objectively, compared to health. Senator Bertuzzi explained first the value of a rule that may seem to Senator Tremonti irrelevant, but it is important: it is the standard related to the certification of the livestock chain, control and registry. I can give other examples: it is anything but ridiculous, Senator Candiani, a rule that obliges travel agencies to ensure that, if something does not work, not only will they be brought home, but 100% of what they have spent will be returned to them. Summer begins: soon some airplane will be stuck in an airport and some travel agency will fail, while there are people around the world, who now know that they are guaranteed by the same operators. And, therefore, for operators too, the situation changes and I do not believe that the rule that changes the tariffs for television service dealers is irrelevant. In the same way, I think that for those who have worked in international bodies such as the UN, civil protection or other bodies around the world over the past few years, the fact that we can see that period of work counted in the term of retirement is not a small thing. I believe that this law contains many rules that directly affect the lives of citizens and is therefore a shame to underestimate their impact. It certainly does not solve all the major issues that have been raised, but it is important. I now owe a reply to Senator Scoma: the legislation in this measure does not deal with landings. We are talking about legislation that adapts to a directive according to which, when a person is already in possession of a residence permit issued by a European country and remains on Italian territory for more than three months - which he cannot do - and is expelled, he must be sent to the country of origin and not to the country that signed his residence permit. It is a rule that can be discussed. In this regard, Senator Orellana has presented an agenda, which we will approve, which deals with this rule and invites us to provide for some persons who have a residence permit issued - for example - by the German Government, and who work in Italy for a longer period of three months (have particular skills or have the possibility to do so), a blue card that allows them to stay longer in our country. From this point of view too, I would not like this law to be used to argue over immigration or anything else. I believe that undersecretary Gozi will shortly respond to the assessment made of the decisions taken at the last European summit regarding the reception of refugees. For my part, I would just like to say that it is a good thing that we move from 30,000 to 35,000 - even if we do not reach 40,000, which is certainly a problem - and so I think it is good to value the fact that we have reached this figure. In conclusion, although it is not up to me to do so, I would like to thank Senator Bertuzzi for the debate and highlight a point made during her speech: I think it is important today to adopt this measure and I think that if we succeed, by 2015, in bringing us together and, therefore, in passing a European law and a law of European delegation in September, we will do something important and give a sign of Parliament's efficiency. Moreover, we will put the state's coffers at less risk, because we will pay less in infringement proceedings and overall we will be able to improve, as we are doing today, our legislation. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u26	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u27	Madam President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Chiti, the members of the 14th The Commission and all the senators for very rapid and effective work carried out during the examination of this measure. This has been done within the framework of a strategy agreed with the two branches of Parliament and aimed at achieving, for the first time, rapid adoption and in any case discussion in the same calendar year, four measures - two European laws and two European delegation laws - with the aim of reaching, on a regular basis, two six-month laws: in the first half of the year, a European law and a European delegation law and, in the second half of the year, a second European law and a second European delegation law. This is the first time that such a thing has happened, it has never happened before and it is this Government that has committed itself to this. But it is thanks to your cooperation and teamwork that we are implementing between Parliament and the Government if we are able today, if you consider it, to finally adopt European law. We are already committed to approving the 2015 European delegation law before the summer break, which should be under consideration by the Council of Ministers on 7 August, and immediately after the 2015 European law. I have also heard criticism of the way in which these laws have been set and I find it strange, because for the first time they have been set up for themes and leaders. Perhaps Senator Tremonti did not read well the distinction between Article 9 and Article 10, since Article 9 relates to Chapter II, while Article 10 relates to Chapter III. For the first time, in fact, we have organized the measures for thematic areas, also to make it easier for parliamentarians to identify what are the major issues that are debated in the individual laws. The major thematic areas that are examined within this law are certainly those relating to digital and electronic communications, labour rights, food security and social rights, and certainly also to immigration, taxation and customs. If approved, this law will close 14 infringement procedures and aims to close 11 further EU Pilot cases which, if not effectively managed in accordance with the European Commission, would result in the opening of 11 new infringement procedures. It seems to me, therefore, that we have proceeded and are proceeding at a good pace, and I am counting on the Senate and on the whole of Parliament to ensure that this rate is maintained and, if possible, even accelerated. I would like to respond to the various speeches which have been made, all of which deserve further consideration. Senator Scoma criticized the article in the Return Directive law, on which we had an infringement for non-transposition in 2009, then turned into an infringement procedure for mistransposition. At a time when we, with the European Agenda for Immigration, are calling on the European Union to assume greater responsibility for return and to commit more resources in terms of, on the one hand, the identification work of immigrants arriving on our coasts and, on the other hand, the return work of those who are not entitled to remain in the territory of the European Union (and the new return policy is one of the four pillars of the European Agenda for Immigration), I wonder, Senator Scoma, with what credibility Italy can insist on this path and achieve a strengthening of return policy, if it is in violation of precisely the transposition of the Return Directive. It would seem to me a good way to weaken itself in the negotiating strategy. That is why we wanted to respond to this infringement in this European law: because this too is a legal or technical component - Senators Tremonti and Candiani say technical, I say legal - of responding to a new political strategy that we want to pursue and which also has as a pillar the return policy. So I guarantee you that there is no schizophrenia, but only good use of legislative vehicles. This is what European law is for. It is in European law that we must first try to respond to infringements. It is also an act of coherence and credibility with respect to a broader strategy that - and I am going to respond to Senator Orellana - includes the effort we need to support - is another pillar of the European immigration agenda - to start developing a European legal economic immigration policy. This is certainly one of the points on which we must insist. Finally, for the first time, the European Commission accepts a claim from Italy, and I said about Italy and not the Renzi Government, the Berlusconi Government or the Prodi Government. Italy has always pushed to develop a policy of legal economic immigration at European level. The European Agenda for Immigration is committed to this. It is a very difficult battle that we will have to start from the summer break, and that also means making better and more use of the little of Europe and the legal economic immigration that exists today. The Blue Card Directive, which you, Senator Orellana, rightly mentioned, is a piece of that Europe of legal economic immigration that exists and which is underused in all Member States. I therefore believe that it is absolutely right, and that is why I will accept it, that the agenda you have presented is precisely to commit the Government to work at European level to persuade our partners to make better and more effective use of the directive, as it exists today, and also to try to develop it within the framework of a new policy on legal immigration. Senator Fattori, first of all if you have any suggestions to give, I am very willing to evaluate it and, if I agree with it, to accept it. It seems to me, however, difficult to say that this Government did not discuss European laws and European delegation with the opposition. If there is something that I, representing the Commission, have done since the beginning of the Renzi Government, it has always been to seek the maximum possible consensus on every single article, every amendment and every measure we have discussed in European matters. So, we should keep working like this. But if you say that the government does not listen to oppositions in the matter of European law and European delegation, look at the parliamentary acts recorded in the Senate and the House and perhaps at least mitigate your judgment, which seemed a little drastic to me. There are 94 real infringements at the moment; you said 97, but that is not the problem. The point is that they even reached 135 before the Renzi government. I inherited a situation where the infringements were 121 and were on the increase. We have reached the lowest point in the last 30 years with 89 infringements and we must continue to do so. And we can continue in this way thanks to the excellent work you are doing as a Parliament. On TTIP, you will recall, Senator, that it was the Italian Government, during the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, that put the issue of transparency. You will remember that it was an initiative of the Italian Presidency to make the negotiating directives public, which was a fair request of so many citizens and parliamentarians, including your Group. Perhaps it would be good to remember that we must continue the work of transparency, because I believe that the initial lack, as long as we did not intervene, regarding the TTIP negotiations did not do well for the negotiations themselves. The need for transparency in Europe was our responsibility and we did it first. On information we try to mitigate too drastic judgments. We did information work before and during the semester with RAI, even in the early evening, on European issues that had not been done before. We have started a training programme with the European Policy Department and the MIUR to have trainers on Europe, because we believe that training and information are primarily done in schools. I also believe that a great step forward has been taken in relation to the past. When we say that the Government does nothing to inform and train citizens, it would be good to at least remember the things that this Government did first and perhaps evaluate them and tell us the most critical points. On the Campania Region and on unfair landfills, we are convinced that it is the Region itself that has to take charge of the execution of the judgment of the Court of Justice. We insisted very much. You know that it is a matter of regional competence to intervene and we will insist that those funds, which must be released for the execution of the judgment of the Court of Justice, come from a region which has made a return management plan, but which has not been implemented in an effective and timely manner. The other point you raised relates to access to documents relating to litigation infringements. All we do is apply Article 14 of Law No 234 of 2012 and European rules. Therefore, we regularly transmit the information on litigation and prelitigation to the two Chambers, and in particular to the 14th Commissions. The rules of the European Union and, above all, the EU Pilot rules, as well as the regulations of the European Commission, maintain confidentiality on certain aspects. When they are in prelitigation, they also discuss subjective rights and it is to protect their owners that a certain confidentiality must be followed in the prelitigation phase so that those rights are not damaged and, above all, if the prelitigation phase has a negative outcome, i.e. does not result in infringement, they are not harmed without any valid legal reason. These regulations are not invented by the Italian Government, but by the European Commission that applies them and asks for them to be respected by all 28 Member States. To Senator Tremonti, who is not here now, I will reply the same because I was interested in his criticism. The European Union is usually criticized for being too Jacobine. Today, however, I have discovered that the criticism of the European Union is that it is too medieval. I dare not venture to enter into a debate of such a high historical and even literary profile as that which Senator Tremonti wanted to initiate. However, I would remind him that, with regard to the lack of euro governance above all, I do not recall any particular initiatives to question those European rules, which he rightly considers incomplete and inadequate today, when he was Italy's minister and represented at the Eurogroup's ECOFIN Council. I do not recall any particular initiatives by the Minister in this regard. I do not recall any particular initiatives in which the Minister raised the issue of economic, political or social union. I recall, however, the negotiation of rules that are largely at the expense of countries like Italy. I share many of the criticisms, but I do not remember such action when Tremonti was Minister. As far as administrative simplification is concerned, I absolutely agree. We made it a priority. We've got Juncker busy. When it was voted in the European Parliament, the main political forces to which the main groups present here are linked - the European People's Party, the democratic socialists and the liberal democrats - clearly committed Juncker to making the fight against bureaucracy and for administrative simplification and stronger application of the principles of subsidiarity a priority. Look at the communication, on which, of course, a work in ascending phase is not only opportune but, as far as the government's competence is concerned, widely desirable and desired. I am referring to communication, better regulation, Better Regulation, Timmermans. There are also very useful indications and proposals to prevent too bureaucratic rules from being made at European level and also bureaucratic increases at national level. It is clearly mentioned - for example - the theme of gold plating, which is contained in Law No 234 of 24 December 2012. Often, however, it is the national Parliament that aggravates European legislation, disregarding Law 234. In this regard, we have a very interesting orientation on which it would be very useful for Parliament and the Government to work together to say that the fight against bureaucracy and excessive regulation is not only the priority of the Government, but also of the European Commission and it is worth working on. Senator Candiani, you recalled the absence of the Government in the matter of immigration and the mistakes it would make at European level on issues on which even a government closest to you worked. I am referring to the Berlusconi Government of 2008, of which a minister named Roberto Maroni was a member. Too bad that Minister led to measures that had Italy condemned by the European Court of Human Rights. It does not seem to me that receiving sentences from the European Court of Human Rights in the field of immigration is the best way to count in Europe. [[Senator Crosio's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u28	Senator Crosio, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u29	Mr Gozi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I always remember that Minister who, in April 2011, in Luxembourg, coming out of the meeting of Interior Ministers said: If this is Europe, we might as well get out of it. There is a small difference with the Renzi Government: he had asked for the activation of the temporary protection mechanisms, which were refused to him. So, get out of the European Union... You're a ridiculous counterfigure! You're a clown! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Volpi, please let undersecretary Gozzi speak. VOLPI (LN-Aut). You're nothing! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Volpi, I'm calling you back to order. Please, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Gozi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Our Government, which said that the European Union should be more supportive in and out of the EU, has obtained the activation of the temporary protection mechanism for immigrants. It is a small difference between your failures and our first steps forward and results. [[Senator Arrigoni's comments.]] Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). What are you talking about? Mr Gozi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Maybe it would be good if we remembered. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Senator Carraro and Senator Bertuzzi raised important issues. I too, Senator Carraro, believe that today there is a problem of funds in Europe and the great difficulty in implementing those mechanisms of shared responsibility and solidarity that must be implemented. You referred to the agreement on Greece, which we discussed in the Commission, where I will return, to inform you again. I would remind you, however, with regard to the agreement on Greece, that at the beginning of the negotiations there were thirteen governments in favour of the exit of Greece; two had a fairly neutral position; one (the one of Greece) wanted the country to remain in. Three governments (in alphabetical order: Cyprus, France and Italy) worked to achieve a result, which was then that of the summit: Greece remained in monetary union, as it passed not the Schaeuble line, but the Hollande and Renzi line. This too should be, from an Italian point of view (not from the Government or the majority, but from an Italian point of view), a result on which we should all agree. Madam President, thank you and thank all the senators. I repeat the Government's commitment to continue with the presentation this year of the other two draft European laws and the European delegation, if today, as I hope, the draft European law 2014 will be finally approved. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Bondi and Repetti Senators.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u30	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u31	Madam President, Article 2, inserted during the examination of the Chamber, removes the authorization of the Ministry of Economic Development, currently necessary, for the import of liquid finished petroleum products from countries not belonging to the European Union. More specifically, the rule repeals the provision requiring imports of such products to be authorised at present by the Ministry of Economic Development, after consulting the Customs Agency. The national provisions provide that such authorization shall be granted in accordance with criteria to be determined by a subsequent decree of implementation and, in any case, the granting of the authorization shall be considered whether the external production plant complies with the requirements for the protection of the environment, workers' health and safety laid down in the Community rules. This obligation had been imposed as from 1 January 2013 and subsequently imposed. The rule is the subject of a pre-litigation procedure, in which the European Commission considers that the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on trade policy may be incompatible. However, as this is a matter of exclusive competence for the Union, the Commission asks Italy to clarify the operation of the system. From this point of view, it is honestly not clear why this provision, which was introduced to protect not only the environment but also the safety and health of workers, is repealed in the text of the European law. For this reason, Amendment 2.1 calls for the deletion of the article.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u32	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u33	I am opposed to Amendment 2.1, and I would stress that an agenda has already been accepted by the Government in the Commission, which commits the Commission to take action to ensure that the European Union takes on the environmental protection provided for in the previous Italian legislation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u34	I am in agreement with the rapporteur for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u35	Having not been tabled on Article 2 other amendments than the deletion 2.1 tabled by Senators De Petris and Uras, we shall proceed to the vote on the retention of the Rule. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the maintenance of Article 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 5, on which an amendment and an agenda have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u36	Madam President, in addition to Amendment 5.1, I would like to explain the G5100 agenda as well. 11:19 a.m. (Crossio followed). Article 5 addresses issues relating to administrative rights in the field of electronic communications. This is a subject that we have often dealt with in a fairly important way, recognizing that in this text we are moving in the direction of healing some of the distorting effects of existing legislation. I would remind you that local TV network operators must pay administrative fees by 31 January each year, as provided for in the electronic communications code. We believe - but it is not an exclusive position of the League on this issue - that these figures are absolutely unsustainable for operators. And it is clear that these tariffs are without reasonableness and proportionality from our point of view. I would also like to remind Mr Gozi, who rightly pointed out the great successes, in his view, of this Government that, as far as this part is concerned, that we were all very quietly waiting, on the part of the Commission, for a decree, for a device, for a piece of paper that would finally agree and regulate with the European Union the issues of the digital agenda and electronic communications. Unfortunately, a few weeks ago a cold shower arrived on our country, because it was announced by the Undersecretary Giacomelli that the Renzi Government does not intend to address the issues of electronic communications and the digital agenda of Europe. I want to remind myself, but also undersecretary Gozi, who is very careful from this point of view, that an important game our country will play in Europe to understand if, how much prepacked by Europe on the digital agenda, we are fine with it, or if we want to modulate it in another way. That is the point on which we should work and debate. Several times, not only the League but also several members of its party have recalled that, as it is structured, the digital agenda in Europe does not do good to the country, but does the exclusive good to Europe. Therefore, Mr Undersecretary, particularly with this agenda we are trying to put a patch where all governments, to the honour of truth, succeeded in this country from 2001 onward, have sailed a little 'on sight on this important matter. But if truly, as you have suggested this morning, your Government really wants to do something, here is the opportunity to give concrete answers to the country, among other things in an area where we have the guarantee - and you know it better than I do - that an investment gives the certainty of an increase in the country's gross domestic product. With regret I repeat that we have taken note of the reverse by the Renzi Government. We are very available - and we have also said this during the debate that sees us confronting ourselves these days on the important reform of the country's radio and television system - to be collaborative with the Government. Mr Undersecretary, we await a serious, concrete and operational stance from the Government on all this reasoning. The telecommunications system, and in particular that of local television, is in great suffering and, therefore, we expect to have an answer. We are not sure that it will come, but on our part there will be a full contribution to cooperation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendment and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u37	Mr President, I am against Amendment 5.1, while on the G5100 agenda the opinion is in favour, where the following rewording is accepted, which provides for the replacement of the word "possibility" with the word "opportunity" in the legislative part of the text. In addition, in the third last line, it is asked to add, after the words: "10 million inhabitants" the words: "with relative amount". If there is agreement on this rewording, the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u38	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. In addition, I remind Senator Crosio that we have already worked and discussed positively with the Northern League Group in the House and will continue to do so. The Digital Agenda for Europe is the beginning of a process. Let us work together to get in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u39	Senator Crosio, do you accept the proposed rewording of the agenda G5.100 or do you insist on the vote? CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I welcome the rewording of the agenda, but I insist on the vote. I also withdraw amendment 5.1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G5100 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5.100 (text 2), tabled by Senators Crosio and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u40	Mr President, I am against Amendment 6.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u41	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u42	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.1 tabled by Senator Uras. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u45	URAS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Article 6 fits exclusively in order to exclude from the regulation made by the article under consideration the promotional messages aimed at raising public awareness of the book and the reading, albeit transmitted free of charge and on condition of favor provided by paragraph 12 of Article 38 of the single text referred to in Legislative Decree No 177 of 2005.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u46	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u47	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u48	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u49	Let us move on to Amendment 8.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. FACTORS (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. FACTORS (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.2, tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u52	Cotti (M5S). Mr President, this article refers to an infringement of travel agencies. First, the rapporteur, Senator Mirabelli, who made explicit reference to this rule, believing that it is in a certain sense an obligation on our part to adapt to the Community directive and also believing that it would be a step forward in guaranteeing the consumer - in this case the tourist - in the event of the failure of the intermediary or the organiser of the journey to have a refund and, above all, to be returned at non-his own expense. In fact, this possibility already exists, because there is a national guarantee fund. Among the reasons why an infringement procedure has been initiated against us is also the fact that the national fund is not constantly being refilled, even if it could have been remedied in other ways, especially since just these days in the European Parliament there is a voting session for the update of the travel package directive for which, after approval at European level, they will pass from the intermediary to the organizer the reimbursement charges to the tourist who finds himself with the organizer of the failed travel. We are therefore adapting to legislation that will change Europe again in five minutes. It could have been provided in a different way, perhaps providing for an additional year for the entry into force of this law. In this case, therefore, for the umpteenth time, I note a lack of attention, if not an aversion, of the Government and of the majority towards the world of tourism, in particular the organization and mediation. For this reason, my Group, which is abstaining on all the articles, will vote against this rule, pointing out that there is a need for greater attention from the Government and the majority towards the world of tourism, whose competences are now fragmented between the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Presidency of the Council, the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, without there being often even a relationship between the different sectors concerned with the subject. My speech is therefore a rejection of the majority and its tourism policy. As I have already announced, the 5 Star Movement Group will therefore vote against this article.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u53	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 10, on which an agenda has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u54	Mr President, I am in favour of the G10.100 (text 2) agenda, which I also referred to in my reply, which commits the Government to ensuring a longer stay for EU Blue Card holders.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u55	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u58	Orellana (Mist). Mr President, I insist on voting on the agenda that the votes should be taken simultaneously by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G10.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Orellana. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 11, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u59	Mr President, I rise to withdraw two amendments, 11.1 and 11.2. In fact, an agenda has been put forward, and I hope that the Government will take this into account, which calls for our legislation to be brought into line with European legislation at last.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u62	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I make both my amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u63	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u64	Mr President, I am opposed to both amendments. Frankly, the situation is extravagant, because there is an agenda that takes up exactly the content of the amendments and therefore we do not understand why we want to insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u65	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u66	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator Panizza and other senators, subsequently withdrawn and made by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.2 tabled by Senator Panizza and other senators, subsequently withdrawn and made by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 12. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 13. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 14, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u67	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u68	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u69	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 14.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.1 tabled by Senator Uras. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 15, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u70	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u71	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u72	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 15.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.1 tabled by Senator Fattori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.2 tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 16. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 17. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 18, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u73	I object to Amendments 18.1 and 18.2 on which the 5th Commission has, in any case, expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u74	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u75	Let us move on to amendment 18.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.1, tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 18.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.2 tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the G18.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u76	I am against it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u77	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u78	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G18,100 agenda. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request was supported) I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G18.100, presented by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 19, on which agendas have been presented and which I call on the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u79	Mr President, I would like to set out the agenda for G19.101. We had tabled an amendment to the Commission, which was then declared inadmissible, on an issue that involved many senators and unfortunately - alas - also the interests of many small and medium-sized Italian producers. I would like to remind you of the matter, which concerns the communication on the opening by the European Commission of an infringement procedure concerning the provisions in force in Italy to protect our dairy heritage and the health of our citizens, concerning the ban on the use of milk powder for the production of fresh milk and dairy products. We know that this law, which was to be further implemented, in Italy represented the possibility of protecting an element of quality and food safety for national production. Truly, at the very moment when the EXPO is under way, the announcement of the opening of an infringement procedure against us, precisely for the standards to protect the quality of Made in Italy, is frankly disconcerting. The agenda therefore calls on the Government to take every initiative aimed at reaffirming in the Community the legitimacy and importance, for the whole agri-food system of the country, of the provisions called into question. In fact, we should advise Europe to adopt those provisions in all European countries, because they are rules to protect food safety and therefore the health of citizens and interests, not only of our country, but also of other European producing countries, should they be extended. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The rest of the agenda will be set out. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u80	I am in favour of the adoption of the G19.101 agenda, at the first signature of Senator De Petris. I am also in favour of the G19.100 agenda, by Senator Candiani, but calling for a rewording to remove the last paragraph of the premises, starting from the words "in essence," we are asked to produce "cheese without milk." Since there are no cheeses without milk, I would avoid leaving this expression in a parliamentary act. For the rest, I am in favour of approval. CASINI (AP (NCD-UDC)). There's soy cheese!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u81	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u82	Senator Candiani, do you accept the proposed rewording of the agenda G19.100?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u83	Mr President, I accept the proposed reformulation. Allow me, however, to remind Senator Mirabelli that last year, during the constitutional reform, the Senate House came to abolish the numbers, so, with regard to the infringement procedure to which we refer, we can also talk about the production of so-called milk-free cheese, which then means milk-based cheese powder which, in the common vulgate, is not cheese. It is a pleasure that the agenda for our examination has been accepted by the Government. However, we are asking for the vote, remembering that the Government's commitment is to take all the necessary steps, in the appropriate European fora, to defend the quality of the Italian dairy system, the milk producers and the transparency of the information to be given to consumers. We also call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u84	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G19.100 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u87	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CRI). Mr President, I consider the agenda to be a litmus test of the effectiveness of this measure. Mr Secretary, I have listened to your reply and I must tell you quite frankly that I was rather perplexed not only by the contents of your speech but also by the peremptory tones you used, which reveal a graniticity of conviction that leaves me grounded. To this tone I respond with a tone of great censorship that I want to address to you for the serious distraction of the Government on issues that, even from the point of view of the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity, should draw more attention to the repercussions that may arise, in terms of health protection, from promising initiatives that, through the relaunch, once again, of the Franco-German axis, attempt to influence domestic legislation when you basically want to open an infringement procedure for the repeal of Law No 138 of 1974 that has the fault of having protected the quality of our products, trademarks, brands and made in Italy. Basically I believe that introducing the possibility of using milk powder for dairy production, in addition to deleting 487 types of traditional cheeses recorded in our country, opens the door to a greater risk of counterfeiting and fraud. The issue of food counterfeiting has been discussed for some time with all the indications that have shaped the case as a real national emergency. In addition, a lowering of quality in a country that has made milk production a distinctive figure appreciated in the world. That is why we shall be voting in favour of the two agendas before us, but that is also why our position of censure on this measure will be expressed in a way that Mr Liuzzi has argued in tones and terms that will lead the Government to the resistance that we want. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u90	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to state the importance of the measure because all the Italian regions, and those of the North in particular, produce dairy specialities. I speak particularly of the North because we are children of the butter culture. Not having olive oil, milk has been of vital importance to us. I therefore ask, on behalf of the entire Group of the North League, to sign the agenda G19.100 (text 2) because this is a matter that essentially affects all the regions to which we belong.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u93	BERTUZZI (PD). Mr President, if the agenda for Senator De Petris is put to the vote, the Democratic Party will vote in favour, but I believe that a real operation is necessary. The infringement procedure on this subject was opened at the request of Italian cheese producers, so it was not Europe's stepmother vis-à-vis Italy who recalled the contents of the law of 1974. I therefore believe that the conduct followed by the Minister, the Government and this majority has gone immediately to clarify the line that must be taken on this issue in order to protect a tradition that makes fresh milk the main element with which our cheeses are produced. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u94	There is a request from several senators to be able to sign the agenda G19.100 (text 2), of which I ask the Secretary Senators to take note. I invite the Senator Secretary to check if Senator Candiani's request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G19.100 (text 2), presented by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G19.101 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u97	LIUZZI (CRI). Mr President, I would ask that I be able to add my signature to agenda G19.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u98	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G19.101, presented by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 20, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u99	I am against the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u100	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u101	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 20.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.1, tabled by Senator Fattori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G20.100 agenda has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 21, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u102	Mr President, on Article 21, our Group has tabled three amendments which have a common denominator. In this measure we still want, after the decree competitiveness, No. 91 of 2014, to give a final kick to the hunt with the rocoli, a cultural tradition that goes back to the night of the times. It is essentially intended to regulate the catching activity for the purposes of ringing and transfer for recall, stating that it can be carried out by means and installations not prohibited by an annex provided for in the Directive. Too bad that this annex does not specify which plants are prohibited, so if it were to be approved as this article is formulated, the hunting with the roosters would see its end. We believe that with these amendments the European infringement procedure can be removed, simply by providing that the facilities which must be authorised by the Provinces and which must be managed according to the requirements of the Regions must be done in accordance with the conditions and procedures laid down in Article 19-a of the so-called Hunting Act, No 157 of 1992. So we, as the North League, as we have done with the previous laws that have touched, penalized, this traditional hunt, will continue in our battle to safeguard not only this cultural activity, but above all, and I repeat, dozens and dozens of economic activities and therefore also the defense of thousands of jobs that with this formulation would risk disappearing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The remaining amendment and the agenda are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u103	Mr President, on Amendment 21.2 there is the opposite view of the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. On the remaining amendments, including the agenda, the opinion is opposed, since some of the amendments do not transpose the directive, or rather re-introduce elements that have opened the infringement procedure; secondly, in the Commission we have already approved an agenda, at the first signature of Senators Caleo and Vaccari, which has been accepted by the Government and which asks the Government to specify a point in the rule that speaks of possible authorisations. We ask the government to clarify which plants can be authorized, knowing that the vertical networks to which reference is made, when they do not allow the selection of species and when they are harmful, are definitely prohibited. It must be understood that interpretation will be given on a rule that has been introduced with respect to authorisations. It seems to me that the rule calls for a further restriction of the possibility of catching live calls to replace them with farms, so we think that it is right and must be safeguarded as it is. We therefore accept the need to move from catching live calls to breeding, in accordance with the content of the directive.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u104	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u105	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 21.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u108	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, Amendment 21.1 which I have tabled together with my colleagues, Amati and Cirinna, proposes on this article, therefore in the context of the response to the infringement procedure, an issue which we have already addressed in this House and which is a cruel practice; we still do not want to fully understand that, precisely for a trivial reason, even of civilisations, it would be necessary to make a profound change in the regulation of the capture activity and the transfer for the purposes of recall. The capture, breeding and use of live birds for recall purposes should be banned in our country. The purpose of this amendment is to close the matter definitively and therefore proposes an amendment to Law No 157 of 1992, expressly providing for the prohibition of the capture, breeding and use of birds for live recall purposes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u111	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, contrary to the position of the League, we strongly oppose the practice of using live birds for recall purposes. We find the excuse for safeguarding the jobs found by the really absurd colleague to excuse such a cruel practice. In addition to voting in favour of the whole Group's amendment, I would ask Mr De Petris, if he is not against it, to sign his amendment. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u112	I think Senator De Petris has nothing to object to.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u115	FUCKSIA (M5S). Mr President, I too would like to endorse the amendment. I also wanted to make one point: in Article 16, my vote was against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u116	If you communicate this to the Secretary Senators, you will be taken note of your voting orientation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u119	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u120	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 21.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 21.2 tabled by Senators Candiani and Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.3 tabled by Senators Candiani and Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.4 tabled by Senators Candiani and Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G21.100, presented by Senators Candiani and Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 21. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 22, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u121	Mr President, I am against all the amendments and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u122	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u123	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 22.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.1, tabled by Senators Candiani and Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.2 tabled by Senators Candiani and Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.3 tabled by Senators De Petris and Uras. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.4 tabled by Senators Candiani and Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G22,100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u126	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, it is clear that there is a sort of fury that we could call iconoclastic, but in this case I would call it a fury towards a gastronomic and culinary history that belongs to us and is profound. With this agenda, we simply ask the Government to undertake to provide for urgent measures in order to make further changes that take account of the economic and social damage that is being created, as well as the consequences for the non-approval of the amendments that we have tabled with regard to the restaurant and the activities that traditionally take place in many regions of Italy and which deal, in this case, with the Brescia spit, the typical polenta and osei and other secular dishes that concern small birds. We are even talking here about banning imports from abroad, that is, preventing the product itself, preventing history and tradition. We are not talking about the elephant hunt and things that are disproportionate to the realities we are discussing. We're talking about the small restaurant. This measure will result in the loss of work for hundreds and hundreds of people and, moreover, the closure of traditional activities. Then, at Expo we showcase our gastro-culinary stories! No, Mr. President, we're not. It is clear that there is a radical chic fury towards these realities, which does not take account, of course, of majority opportunities, not even of the economic damage that is created. With this agenda we ask that the Government at least commit itself to protecting and thinking about the economic damage that will be created as a result of the adoption of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u127	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G22.100, presented by Senators Candiani and Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 22. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.0.3, tabled by Senator Fattori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 23, on which an amendment and agenda have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u128	Mr President, I would like to set out the agenda for G23.101, which concerns the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning the failure of the Campania Region in the management of the waste cycle and, in particular, the inadequacy and inadequacy of the network of waste disposal plants (we are talking about waste heaters and composting plants). I would like to remind you, if there is still a need, that the problem of waste in Campania dates back to the dawn of time and that the Court of Justice of the European Union has already issued a judgment against our country in 2010. Moreover, in 2013 the European Commission referred our country to the Court of Justice, with particular reference to the Campania Region, for failure to dispose of waste, until, the horse that the grass grows, last week - exactly on 16 July - the Court of Justice has issued a second sentence with which it asks Italy to pay 20 million euros once, plus 120,000 euros per day until it continues to be non-compliance with the European directive. Since we are talking about several luxuries in which the Campania Region is in emergency on the waste side, we would like to understand what has been done so far. Therefore, the agenda G23.101 essentially commits the Government to report on the state of implementation of the actions put in place by the Campania Region, obviously shared by the Government, regarding the construction of these waste disposal plants. [[Applause from Senator Comaroli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u129	The remainder of the amendment is set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u130	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendment and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u131	I am against Amendment 23.2. As far as the two agendas are concerned, I am in favour of both, subject to rewording. In particular, with reference to the G23.100 I propose that the words "in the next European law" be removed from the device, while on the G23.101 that the words "by the Campania region" and "shared by the Government" be replaced by the following: "at both regional and state level."
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u132	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u133	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 23.2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.2 tabled by Senator Fattori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Arrigoni, do you accept the rewording of the two agendas?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u134	Mr President, in the next article, on the 24th, there are two additional amendments, of which I am the first signatory, which contain the same arguments as the two agendas referred to in Article 23.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u135	Unlike the agenda, the 5th Commission's opinion on amendments 24.0.2 and 24.0.3 is contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u136	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). So, Mr President, I shall withdraw them, but with regard to the proposal for redrafting the agenda for the G23,100, that is to say the one which calls for the removal of the reference to the next European law, we would not want these government provisions to remain in place with regard to the regions. I propose at least to include a time indication, a time limit, which could be as short as possible, for example.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u137	It seems to me that I understood - but I would not want my interpretation to be the wrong one - that the deletion of those words, as proposed by the rapporteur, means that there can be other places where we can intervene, and not necessarily the European one. It is not so much a question of time, but of instrument: not to confine itself to that instrument.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u138	All right, but that instrument still gave the idea of a time frame, that of next year's European law. The reference to European law is missing any reference of a temporal nature, so I would ask the rapporteur to make a counter-proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u139	But you've already done it, Senator Arrigoni: remove that reference.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u140	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). At least I ask you to predict a speech that brings a temporal reference. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Could it be: "to predict as soon as possible"? Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Yeah, the sooner it's done, the better. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur accept this proposal? MIRABELLI, rapporteur. All right, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does the government representative conform? Mr Gozi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Compared to the agenda G23.101, do you accept the request for reformulation, Senator Arrigoni? Arrigoni (LN-Aut). On the G23.101 reformulation can be good. Too bad that the equivalent amendment of 24.0.3 received the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. However, I would like to point out that the second infringement procedure that was adopted by the European Court of Justice last week costs our state a great deal of money: a fine that all Italian taxpayers must pay. This is a cost that Italians must bear for the inability, lasting years, of local politicians and administrators to Campania, who have solved nothing in relation to the emergency waste. I stress that last year, in Parliament, Prime Minister Renzi, with the decree unblocks Italy, wanted to decommit the administrators and politicians of Campania by introducing, with Article 35, the release of waste and authorising the transport of waste that the bell towers cannot dispose of in the other regions, thus failing the principle of proximity, which required to dispose of solid urban waste within the regions in which they are produced. This we denounce, because the unblocking Italy has gone in favor of the disengagement of these administrators and politicians Campania that have done nothing over the years and that will probably continue, over many years, to do nothing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u141	Let's stick to the agenda, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u142	I call on the rapporteur to comment on the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u143	Mr President, we can accept the rewording of the G23.100 agenda, with the replacement of the words 'in the next European law' by the words 'in the first place'. I would, however, like to tell Senator Arrigoni that we pay for infringement procedures: the ones he likes and the ones he doesn't like.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u144	Senator Arrigoni, do you insist on voting on the agenda at your signature? Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Yes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u145	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G23.100 (text 2), tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G23.101 (text 2), tabled by Senators Arrigoni and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 23. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 24. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 24. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 24.0.2 and 24.0.3 have been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 25. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 25. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 26, on which an amendment and an agenda have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u146	Mr President, I am against both Amendment 26.1, and the G26,100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u147	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u148	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 26.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26.1 tabled by Senators Candiani and Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G26.100, presented by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 26. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 27. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 27. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 28. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 28. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 29. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 29. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 30. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 30. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We have thus completed the examination of the articles. I would like to take this opportunity to wish Senator Mancuso a happy birthday.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u151	LIUZZI (CRI). Mr President, the measure before us... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u152	Colleagues, I invite you to lower your voice! I address in particular the senators who are near Senator Liuzzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u153	Senator Bernini, this is the second time I've taken it back. First it was the case of Senator Carraro, and now please let Mr Liuzzi speak. LIUZZI (CRI). Mr President, the measure before this House has highlighted a number of situations in which Italy has been called upon to observe the duties and obligations imposed on governments by membership of the European Union. They impose it on the present and imposed it on the previous ones. And today we are healing a number of situations that can, in the meantime, prevent further damage to the state's coffers. However, as has already been done, we are putting our hand in the pocket of the public coffers in order to be able to pay and compensate for the damage done. This is part of the rules of the game and, in essence, is part of our obligation to adhere to a series of principles that over the years, over the decades, have built the palace and the European building. From this, in truth, a series of doubts and scepticisms creeping or manifested for some time to this side are pervading the public opinion, but also the parliaments: the European public opinion, therefore of the individual nations, and the parliaments of the individual nations. That's a good sign. It is a sign by which not always what is perceived as negativity or Euroscepticism passes by something not useful to the construction, never completed, of the European Union. To be questioned serves both to strengthen European ideals, but also to give each of the European citizens the awareness that they are in the Union properly and, therefore, also with all the responsibilities. Beyond that series of technicalities or technical facts that have been highlighted here and to which the draft law presented by the Government wants to remedy, I believe that this is an opportunity to talk about what is happening in the European Union, about the fact that, in essence, the European Union today is increasingly pointing out its distance with the people, with the local communities, with the national communities. Well, it is before everyone's eyes the enormous discrasia that motivates the acts, the actions of the present Europe compared to that of the founding Fathers. Idealities, utopias are increasingly colliding with the principles of realism and politics of individual nations and therefore of individual national interests. 12.25 a.m. (Liuzzi followed). However, when ideals and utopias clash with reality, they also generate frustrations, skepticisms and feelings of repulsion. Well, from this point of view, the position we have taken as conservatives and reformists is always that of a convinced Europeanism that must surely be cultivated, because we believe that the destinies of the European Nations are in the history of Europe and in the perspectives of the stories still to be written by Europe; however, from this point of view, reasoning, confrontation, having a critical attitude can favor that integration which is also in the fundamental acts of our Union. As I said before, creeping skepticism is putting the population in a position to perceive Europe no longer as a common home, as a safe home, but almost as a castle of horrors and even in some cases as a school of mistakes, for example when it lingers in making all European construction based on principles of mathematics applied to the length of cucumbers. From this point of view I believe that it is not even fair to give in to demagogy, to indulge in the populism of which the current chronicles are full; instead, to have an attitude as attentive and vigilant as what is happening at the central level and on how much the peripheral populations are sensing can represent a new healthy trend for the European populations. We have also seen how, during a period of crisis such as the current one, this European construction is faltering and still does so for those timid and non-binding and challenging measures that the Union is putting in place. It will not be decisive, for example, the Juncker plan, because it will represent a drop in the ocean of what could be the sea of aid for recovery, for the turning point, so that all the populations, from those of Northern Europe to those of the Mediterranean, can come out of the lush sea of problems, as we have seen in the current Greek crisis, in which we have noticed how ideality and realism are colliding in this regard. Well, that is what governs and informs our position, Madam President. In this regard, I would particularly like to warn those large cultural and political families which are grouped together within the European Socialist Party (PSE) and the European People's Party (EPP). Well, being in families, in our opinion, means seeking dialogue, seeking confrontation and not suffering from the leadership that unfortunately is taking Europe and Europeans today a step away from the abyss. It is a criticism not exactly veiled, indeed, quite manifest to what Mrs Merkel highlights every day, forcing every day Europeans to have a feeling of even repulse, as I said before. This is the attitude that Italian parties must have that they find themselves in those big families because, if they do not, if they are not critical, if they are not put in a position to express all the perplexities, from being in the family fall into familyism, that is, to silence and undergo decisions that go to determine a step backwards. In this regard I am reminded of what might be the perception, particularly at the peripheral level, of something that mainly concerns our Italy and, above all, the goodness and excellence of Italy. Here, but also at the stage of the general debate, we have highlighted what will happen with milk meal placed on the market. We are strongly opposed; today we are in a position to give Italy still the primacy of excellence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. LIUZZI (CRI). We must absolutely defend those productions and put ourselves in a position to defend our goodness and biodiversity. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u156	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, the debate had to be used to deepen the issues and the amendment phase in order to improve the texts and, therefore, the substance and content of the measure. The debate has slipped away very fast, while the amending phase has not brought refreshment to our doubts, indeed. Allow me, Mr President, to express my great disappointment at the attitude of Mr Gozi. Yours should be a link and, above all, a link between the Government and, in this case, those within this House who represent the citizens. But what attitude is it, Mr Undersecretary - we have heard this in your reply before - to deal with previous governments, with choices and with facts concerning previous governments? We must talk about the merit of the measure we are discussing; if we want to make political controversy, for God's sake, there are TV talk shows that are full of politicians every day. I would have liked to have heard here about the merits of the measure. If then there is also the controversy with someone sitting on the other side of the barracks, that it is the government that is arguing with the political parties and with the parliamentarians is at least irrational. We know, however, that this also belongs a little to the character of the people, so we apologise to the Undersecretary for this attitude which is certainly very far from what should be the figure he represents or should represent. The impression that we have on the whole is that our country is a country that transposes European legislation more for a desire for aesthetic satisfaction, than for a true conviction and, above all, for a real consideration of what is the content of the legislation that is being approved. If it is true, in fact, that at the end of the measure is present a so-called clause of invariance, I would also like a comparison with the Government regarding what are then the relapses in the real country, not that made by the theory, but by the people who work, when they have a job, or by those who do not find work. The rapporteur, Mr Mirabelli, must not tell us that we must not trivialise the question of adapting the rules on tour operators to ensure the travel of those who go on holiday. But for God's sake, there's a country problem, people who don't have a job and don't have the money to go on vacation! I do not want to make useless and sterile polemics, but what emerges is the remoteness of these reasonings from the reality of the country. In fact, to prepare legislation and impose it, without having regard to the time when it is done, the temporary situation in which we live, the real difficulties of the country, means to widen the furrow further, the gap between Brussels and the Italians. Indeed, if Italy was one of the most trusted countries in Europe a few years ago to overcome its limitations, today it is one of the fastest losing confidence in Europe as a solution to its structural limitations. What we are experiencing is a deaf European passage from the problems we are going through with regard to illegal immigration. It is also a country that realizes that it is not represented in a worthy way at European level. I still remember - and I repeat - that not enough is a tweet, a little message to solve the problems, because when you go to Europe you can not sell pseudo reforms here, with the front page in the newspaper, they sell to Italians as structural reforms that create economy and solve the problems of the country, even reaching the paradox of implementing legislation late, as we have seen in the case of tour operators, that in a few weeks will even be overcome by new European regulations. We are disappointed, Mr President, and we are also concerned about the fact that there are only a few months left and we are still at a time when another type of treaty, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, is being deepened by us in the Commission. We have also heard of agreements which have already been written and signed at international level, and secret agreements which are therefore not known. We were told, during a hearing in the Commission, that in order to know the content of some agreements already concluded, we can go to the consular offices of the United States, where we can see them, but without having a copy of the documents. This isn't working. We are talking about a system that is not about citizens, but about interests. What emerges from the approval of this new European law is the remoteness of those who are ruling Europe and of individual governments of countries with respect to the problems of citizens. And that lobbying prevails, that the financial interests prevail, it does not surprise us, because this is the attitude and when you open the lobbying they fit and take advantage of it with full hands. We should talk about where our country is going. Of course, we have obtained the approval, of which we are satisfied, of some of our agendas that commit the Government to protect the product, in the case of the dairy industry, compared to European regulations that have nothing to do with the quality of the product, which has always distinguished the Italian dairy sector, but have to do with marketing instead. Again in the Commission, I remember some discussions with the European summits in which we were told to resign because Italy is no longer a producing country and is becoming more and more a transforming country. But we must not resign at all; indeed, undersecretary Gozi, you must go to Europe to beat your fists, when we talk about these things, because defending the supply chain of quality products compared to this type of infiltration is not a pleasure, but it means, at best, tens and tens, hundreds of thousands, millions of euros, perhaps billions of euros of our domestic product that goes into export. Unfortunately in the past months we have seen the repeated absence, indeed constant, of the Minister of Agriculture, precisely in the year of Expo. Yeah, we know he's busy doing public relations at the Expo pavilions in Milan. We would have liked it here, to discuss these issues [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni]] But we missed his presence. We know that for some time now we have not been able to enjoy the presence of a Minister for European Affairs, but of a Undersecretary - a simple Undersecretary - who goes to Europe to speak with the Ministers. That is also the point of the matter. We would have expected President Renzi to take this burden on himself - initially there was this expectation - representing Italy at the highest levels, but that was not the case. We have therefore become aware of the trivialization of European issues and how the other countries unfortunately do not consider Italy. This is not directly related to the issues we are dealing with today but it is undeniable that we are in the days when the Greek crisis is on the front pages of the newspapers and the image with which I want to close my speech, which gives the sense of how our country does not count, is that of the bilateral summits in which the most important economic choices are decided, which are made by France and Germany. Mrs Merkel and Monsieur Hollande meet with each other and decide also on our money and our destiny. It cannot be said that Italy is a more European country because it approves this type of legislation and transposes it. Italy becomes a more European and serious country at a time when it is being respected internationally. We are not regaining this respect, but unfortunately, with this attitude, we are losing it. Madam President, we shall vote against the legislation and the draft law before us. It is a vote that would have liked to have been abstaining at least, but it is that it has become and remains contrary to the attitude of the government and to the content of some regulations, which we really consider offensive of common sense. Especially at a time when we are talking about economics, as we have mentioned before, we cannot go and break the chains that belong to our history and our gastronomic and culinary culture, which produce a gross domestic product of several tens of millions of euros and many hundreds of jobs. Losing them only to satisfy the radical-chic desire of some pseudo environmentalist lobby, which has representatives in Parliament, is at least offensive to the real country and of course you assume the proper responsibilities. [[Applause from Senators Arrigoni and D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u157	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u158	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u159	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that the Group for the Autonomies (SVP-UV-PATT-UPT)-PSI-MAIE will vote in favour of this draft law. Especially after the agenda has been accepted on the issue of milk to produce local cheese, we will vote in favour, with certainty and conviction.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u162	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we will abstain on this measure, and very briefly I will explain the reasons for it. The first is that it is now a measure of a bureaucratic nature, an almost obligatory fulfillment, mainly due to the avoidance of the state's coffers to incur sanctions, which have negative effects on public finances. Unfortunately, that is all it is, because that is what Europe is like. It has happened to me to say in these days, when we feared the exit of Greece from the euro, that we live in a system that unfortunately does not resemble a federal state, because the political reasons for being together have not been cultivated, but the economic and commercial motivations are dilated. The European Union is based on free competition, market laws. Unfortunately, it leaves in the background the dignity of men and peoples. It succumbs the will, reduces sovereignty. There are a number of elements that lead to deep reflection. We regulate at European level, and then we decide there, on live calls rather than on the end of packaging, on how to capture CO2, how to organise gas networks and how to organise transport, but there is no discussion in Europe about how to make the European people weigh and how to make European peoples weigh in the choices that must be made to organize the social and personal life of every citizen. There is less talk of freedom. There is less discussion of the major objectives of the development of a democratic and civil society. There is less discussion of the values of life and there is much discussion of the diffusion of electronic equipment and the standards with which it is carried out. There is also a great deal of discussion about how to pollute agri-food production and eliminate, for commercial purposes, the genuineness of food. There is much discussion about this and more and more decisions are being taken in favour of the economic and financial interests of large multinationals. So we make a fulfillment in a wretched Europe, such as the one we have. I think that the problem of the government, but also of Parliament and politics, is to decide whether we should resign ourselves to this Europe: I hope not. I hope this is a problem that we all pose. Look, if there is a merit that we must recognize to Greece and its left-wing leader, if there is a merit that we must recognize to Tsipras, it is to have emphasized these issues that are absolutely fundamental to preserve peace on this continent and not to reduce it as it is today compared to America, North and Latin America, and to Asia and other parts of the world, because it is certainly the Continent that records the greatest retreat from the point of view of values and that records a strong backwardness from the point of view of the right of peoples to self-government. I think that we need to talk about this, that we can no longer shut up, I also tell the President of the Senate Commission that he is also very committed to this. We must talk about the nature and depth of the European federal state, because it is no longer conceivable to digest what we no longer like almost anyone and which is in danger of being unbearable. We shall abstain from voting for these reasons which are political and not bureaucratic in nature. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u165	FACTORS (M5S). Madam President, first of all, I immediately announce the abstention vote of the 5 Star Movement. I explained the reasons before. I would like to reply to the Undersecretary on some issues. In particular, as regards the rules on the dissemination of documents from the European Commission, I should like to remind the Undersecretary that these are secreted exclusively for officials, who are bound by professional secrecy, but they cannot be secreted for Members of Parliament, for the simple reason that the Lisbon Treaty states this, which reads in Article 12 as follows: The national parliaments actively contribute to the proper functioning of the Union by being informed by the institutions of the Union and receiving draft European legislative acts in accordance with the Protocol on the role of national parliaments in the European Union. If national parliaments are to contribute to the proper functioning of the Union, then they must be informed and there can be no secreted documents. As the Undersecretary has invited us to make proposals, at this point in the coming weeks I will produce a written document in which I will invite the Government not to accept this absurd request of the European Union to secretate documents to national parliaments, which is an inconceivable thing. To this government, which declared that it would go to the table of the European Commission (while it actually hit its head on the new Berlin Wall), I ask above all to have the strength to bring the demands of democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is clear that the European Commission does not want to open up to national parliaments (the example of Greece told us): the European Union does not want democracy. At this point, since I have tabled a question and I am constantly speaking in this Chamber, I will present a written document for the Secretary so that Members can have the documents and not have to come and consult them in 14a. Commission, in accordance with the Lisbon Treaty. As regards the transparency of the TTIP, I would like to detail the terms of the issue, because the negotiating mandate, alas, was known to the associations and I had it well before in the fabulous European semester some ministers desecuted it, because the associations, through the leaks, had spread it to everyone. What we are asking to have, with regard to the transparency of TTIP, is not the negotiating mandate, which in itself says absolutely nothing, but the details of the negotiations with regard to the agri-food sector that affects our country and an updated impact study - that of Prometeia is old and was done before the details of the mandate were known - from which we can understand what death we must die of, so that then the national Parliament can decide whether to commit suicide or not. As far as European law is concerned, we will send you a written document with very specific requests to be sent to the European Commission on the transparency of acts, which we expect to have at least 14a The Commission, after which we parliamentarians assume the responsibility of keeping them secret, as is our prerogative. Unfortunately, we cannot vote against this European law, but dialogue, dear Undersecretary, does not mean that you listen vaguely to me and then do not accept any of my demands: a serious dialogue is an exchange of views that ends with the acceptance of at least one amendment. Our Movement represents 25% of Italians, so you should accept 25% of our amendments. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] If you tell me that you listen to me but don't care, it's a bored dialogue, a sort of fiction. If you tell me that European law has arrived in the secreted House and in the armored Senate, tell me what dialogue this would be: this is a mockery, so to speak. We cannot, however, afflict citizens with infringement procedures which they will be paying for. Therefore, we will not oppose, we will simply abstain from voting, but we will not accept that European laws and European delegation laws follow this process again: next time we will make a serious opposition. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u168	PICCINELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, Mr Undersecretary, today we are called to vote on European law, that is, a set of rules that should represent the instruments through which Italy participates in the training and implementation of European Union policy legislation. In fact, once again we have to go after the European order in order to avoid sanctions caused by incorrect transposition of European legislation. Despite the chatter about our centrality in Europe and despite the European Presidency, which has passed without anyone noticing, we are not able to participate either in the training or in the implementation of European regulations, but we are only able to suffer them. Not to mention the two previous governments, which, according to them, boasted a high technical and political profile and were not even able to legislate consistently with respect to our country's obligations in Europe. Indeed, as many as 25 out of 30 articles in the law concern infringements or pre-litigation with the European Union. I just want to set a small example. Because of the inability to legislate, we are forced, under penalty of sanctions, to repeal a series of ministerial decrees regulating the marketing of television sets for analogue TV, which no longer exists since July 2012. It is just one example, but many more could be done about how, in an emergency and on the basis of further possible sanctions, we are forced to adopt laws in a disorderly, improvised manner and without a global approach to individual subjects. One article concerns the requirements for the issue of licences, another the health and safety of workers, then GMOs, energy and immigration issues. The confusion and the emergency lead to bad laws whose negative effects will fall on the shoulders of the citizens. I would like to focus on Article 10, which contains provisions on immigration and return, which is the most striking example of what the confusion in the emergency means. Without going into the merits of the measure, since others have already done it better than me, I feel obliged to reveal the total inability of this Government to deal in an organic, serious and thorough way with an issue that becomes ever more dramatic every day. I would like to remind you that the Berlusconi Government had adopted a comprehensive approach with international and bilateral partnership agreements and organic laws on the fight against illegal immigration. The result was that in the Mediterranean there were no thousands of dead or desperate in our stations or prefects who resigned or were discharged. On the contrary, the only solution that this Government can find to this tragedy is a series of uncoordinated and non-organic rules dictated by the emergency. The mayors were left alone to face the continuous emergencies and citizens feel abandoned, easy prey to anger and despair absolutely understandable. There is not only the issue of immigration, but also many other issues dealt with in this measure would have deserved more attention and more in-depth study. I believe that it is time for Italy to deal seriously and promptly with the obligations we have undertaken with the European Union, without having to wait for sanctions and procedures to legislate. We will see whether there will be an effort in this direction in the next European law, because there is no trace of this. For these reasons and many others that are being discussed in general, we can only censor the way in which this law was built. And despite our sense of responsibility and our European sensitivity, which has always distinguished the choices of Forza Italia, we are forced to vote against. Personally, I must add that I am a little surprised by the harshness encountered. We had thought of a vote of abstention, because in the Commission - I must acknowledge both President Chiti and the Undersecretary - there was a climate of constructive cooperation and in fact we abstained on the various positions. But I must say that - alas - in a negative way we have seen Secretary Gozi extremely hard and heavy in some attitudes, so - alas - we will vote against. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u171	COCIANCICH (PD). Madam President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Mirabelli, for this work which is not always simple, but rather complex, given the difficult matter to unravel and its heterogeneity, but this is the nature of the provisions of the European law which contains within itself a number of measures aimed at remedying various infringement procedures. I would therefore like to express my special thanks to him and President Chiti, and to Mr Gozi, undersecretary, who has accompanied the debate throughout the many meetings we have had in the 14th Commission. The discussion has always taken place with great serenity, inactivity and with a very positive attitude. I believe that this is a tradition of the 14th Commission. I am talking about the desire to seek together to work mainly on issues relating to Italy's position vis-à-vis the European Union, seeking the maximum of synthesis and uniformity. That is why I have also heard with some amazement and regret some of the statements made by some political parties in this House today which show that, in the end, the call of the forest always prevails. When we are faced with the cameras and their voters, that sense of responsibility, which is repeatedly claimed by voice, is then lost when the official position of their Group is to be expressed. I believe that one thing was particularly unfair in this debate: the rebuke of not seeking dialogue with the opposition. Anyone who has taken part in the work of the Commission - and I wish to testify to the opinion of many of my fellow Members, whom I believe I can also call friends from this point of view - has seen how determinedly the majority party has sought, on all occasions and not only in this of European law, a united position with all oppositions. How many times have we changed the text of the resolutions proposed by the majority to meet the demands, the amendments, the agenda of the oppositions? Too bad - and I also say this to Senator Fattori - that very often, once the text of the resolution has been changed, it happens that the representative in the Opposition Commission thanks, but then informs us that for other reasons that could not be made known for lack of time or for forgetfulness the opposition would still vote against. It seems to me, then, that there are new movements that have very old and stale vices. This is legitimate as a position, but it is not legitimate to come and do morals because we have always actively sought dialogue with the opposition. This dialogue, however, can only be carried out if there is a correspondence between us and them. We have sought this correspondence in the past, in this provision and we will look for it in the future. I hope that there will be greater transparency on the part of those who today invoke, with a totally free victimism, an active attitude of collaboration. Mr President, the dialogue, which has been more divided today than was expected, has a value which has highlighted the political differences that exist in this House and in this Parliament. I am talking about the differences between those who wander a future of Italy outside the euro, the financial system, the international trade system, the investment cycle and the institutional system of the European Union and those who oppose this vision which would inevitably lead Italy to a future of decline. In this debate we have seen those who have in mind the Varoufakis model, which is a model that calls for aid to Europe, but who then refuses to respect its rules, a model made only of whining or only of victimism when we are in a position to accept the European rules and to be its main interpreters. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We are a founding country of the European Union; we are those who ask others to respect the rules, but we are also those who ask for greater flexibility and attention to historical circumstances. This was the merit of the Renzi Government during the six months that imposed not only the logic of sobriety and respect for the Maastricht parameters, but also those of growth, which we have tried to impose and which enabled the Greek crisis to find a solution from the perspective of the evolution of the European Union. 13.02 p.m. (Follows COCIANCICH). At least this is what we want and welcome with great pleasure also the recent deliberations of the Greek Parliament last night which go in this direction and which seem to confirm the goodness of a political approach. Of course we must stand tall in Europe: it is not enough to stay in Europe, we want to have the pride of being Italian. In this sense, it would certainly help the behaviour, not only of the Government, but of all the political representatives and, for example, of our representatives in the European Parliament. It is astonishing to see how certain criticisms come from members of groups, such as the North League, whose secretary has the record of absences in the European Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The Secretary of the Northern League Group confuses the Court of Justice of the European Union with the Court of Human Rights. [[Senator Council whistles. Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] Let's talk about last night. So, don't come and moralize us about Europeanism. Learn, study something! [[Applause from the PD Group.Repeat comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] I say this because we have listened patiently to all the insolences that could be said on this subject, but at some point patience also ends. COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Blah blah blah! COCIANCICH (PD). These technical and specific issues of European legislation help Italy to modernise itself and to unravel, removing the residues of legislation that has certainly been inadequate in the past. When we look at Europe, we cannot consider it a stepmother, because Europe is not just an abstract entity. Europe is made up of political forces and we must recognise that those who have adopted those political and legal rules that are so close to us today have been the conservative governments and the Barroso Commission which, for two mandates, has imposed a vision of Europe that - I repeat - is not good for us today. I am surprised by what some colleagues have said. I would also like to address my fellow Members, whom I consider, sitting on the other side of the Chamber, who are the first to criticize stepmother Europe today. But where were you when your party colleagues and your political family imposed these rules? Today we are trying to get out of a logic that is not good for us, because we want a Europe of solidarity, rules and growth. However, we can distinguish between those who have imposed certain rules and those who, today, try to give a future and a European perspective. [[Senator Council's comments.]] That is why, Mr President, I conclude by announcing with conviction the support of the Group of the Party of European Socialists and once again thanking the Government and the rapporteur for this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u173	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u174	CAMPANELLA (Misto-AEcT). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, as well as the members of the Misto-SEL Group, we too, members of the L'Altra Europa component with Tsipras, intended to abstain on this measure, which we consider to be more an administrative fulfillment than a political choice, given the approach of Italy's participation in the European Union, which actually results in silent and quiet membership (as is said in other areas) to projects that are defined by others. In view of the political statements made by other Members, I believe that we should make a clear point, with the expression of a vote against the measure, an important approach and the hope that we, as a large part of the country, will have with regard to Italy's participation in the policies of the European Union. Italy, like other countries (including Greece), has a very weak participation in an absolutely neoliberal vision that puts the whole definition of economic policies in the hands of the market, subtracting itself from important industrial policy choices. On this occasion, Greece has unveiled an approach, which is essentially not unpopular but unpopular, of European policy in recent years. An approach that has been substantially allowed also by Italian politics, and specifically by the politics of this Government. All this said, it is important to stress that Italy can have an effective and real European function only when it realizes what its task is in the context of the countries of the Union, and specifically in the Mediterranean countries of the Union, in terms of the demand for policies that, in accordance with our constitutional dictation, can agree on the pursuit of the aims set out in the second paragraph of Article 3 of our Constitution, which - I remind myself - gives the Republic the task of pursuing the substantial well-being of its citizens, together and above the policymaking of economic activity, taking into account above all that enterprises serve to meet human needs and not the opposite. [[Applause from Senators Bocchino and Gambaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u175	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u177	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u178	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group]] Colleagues, having concluded earlier the discussion of the measure under consideration and having previously established the resumption of work at 4 p.m. with the explanation of the amendments on the reform of the RAI, several parties were asked whether it would be possible to anticipate the resumption of the work. If no one disagrees, I would fix the resumption of work at 3 p.m. instead of 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u181	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, I would disagree because we have a hearing on TTIP (the subject we were talking about earlier); therefore, I would be against this proposal and would ask for it to be voted on because the work overlaps, and I do not know whether it is legitimate to ask a Member to follow the work of the Commission rather than those of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u182	Colleagues, before making this proposal I had asked all the Leaders, who had communicated their share of it. AIROLA (M5S). Let's change communication then. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What do you say, Senator Airola? Is there a disagreement? AIROLA (M5S). It is clear to me that we are tired of seeing major debates such as TTIP and RAI reform superimposed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since there is no agreement, let's put the proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u185	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I believe that in this particular case the best thing could be to resume work at 3.30 p.m. so that we have those 30 minutes to be able to attend the hearing. I'm also saying that for my PD colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u186	Senator Santangelo, I was asked to resume work at 3 p.m. and I assure you that I am in the Commission like everyone else and I have nothing against it. I understand your argument. SANTANGELO (M5S). You can put it to the vote in the same way, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Okay. The first proposal is to resume work at 3 p.m.; if it is not adopted, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal to resume work at 3.30 p.m. I put to the vote the proposal to resume work at 3 p.m. The Senate approves. I therefore suspend the sitting, which will resume at 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1.14 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) Let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u189	CUOMO (PD). Madam President, I would like to point out that in the vote on Article 13 of the 2014 European draft law, the electronic device probably did not work and my vote was not only there but it was also in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u190	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1880, 746, 760, 1570, 1795, 1815, 1823, 1841 and 1855. I would remind you that in yesterday's afternoon sitting the general debate was over and the replies of the speakers and the representative of the Government took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u191	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u193	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I rise to raise an issue which I consider to be absolutely reasonable. We are going to explain the amendments relating to the RAI's draft governance reform law without the Budget Committee having expressed its views on them. However, we have very sensitive issues ahead of us that saw the Government submit a sub-amendment to Article 6 yesterday evening and night, and I believe that others will probably follow as well. In short, there is a risk of mortification, regardless of the role of opposition or majority. I therefore ask that, with reasonableness, we consider a postponement of the wording of the amendments, so that it may be an opportunity to enter into the substance and therefore also to begin to listen to us, of course as far as possible and as far as possible. I would ask that this can be done by postponing the explanation for today's sitting to the first occasion when it is considered appropriate to fix the continuation of the discussion on the draft law on the reform of the governance of the RAI.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u194	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u196	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, I agree with Mr Cervellini's words, partly because we have appreciated, in recent days, the Secretary's willingness to enter into the substance of the measure if there is still time and will. Therefore, we could think of following up on Mr Cervellini's proposal, thinking more fully in this House after having had the opinion of the 5th Commission, also because we will be able to reason more firmly. For our part, therefore, there is no foreclosure of this type of proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u197	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u199	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, yesterday, during the vote on the timetable, we have already had the opportunity to highlight this really unproductive situation for the debate, even in the light of the lack of the opinions of the 5th Commission, so we would go and present amendments which we may also consider to be fundamental, on which we would spend valuable time on this House for words that would actually be thrown away because the amendments in question would not be put to the vote. The other aspect that I would like to stress is that it seems to me that the process of this law has expanded what was an urgent situation clearly evident to all, including for the extension of the extension of the extension of the RAI Board of Directors, and for which there is undoubtedly a need for reform. That is why we were prepared to speed up the examination of the measure. But, in the light of the considerations made yesterday by the Undersecretary Giacomelli and the amendment of the Government arrived in the evening, the text will no longer go to the House ready to be voted as it will come out of the Senate, then coming into force. The House will also have to be given the opportunity to change the text which should then return to the Senate. Moreover, as I said yesterday evening, an amendment was tabled which opens up different scenarios about the fate of the board of directors and the possibility of having in the future a board of directors, voted on the basis of the Gasparri law, which remains in office for the entire natural duration of its mandate, not to mention the issue of the managing director and the director-general, which perhaps is the case for the Undersecretary to better explain to us. I would say that, therefore, there is no urgency to debate here today - taking into account the fact that the House is gradually emptying itself, as we move forward - of amendments on the substance, which would be good for everyone because - I repeat - the reform of the RAI is really very important for our country. We therefore also call for the appropriate institutional and legislative timetables and rhythms to be taken to discuss the measure, since there is no more urgency, if not some propaganda and demagogic necessity. However, I would tend, given the seriousness of the matter, not to insinuate this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u200	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u202	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I rise very quickly to say that my previous colleagues allow me to ask that today's debate be postponed. I believe, in fact, that the two central points of the reform of the canon and the governance of the RAI, in addition to the problem of delegation, which had to be clarified better, are matters that the Government intends to address in the course of the discussion. To allow us today a very long debate on the many amendments that have been tabled, but which relate to a text that will probably be passed, seems to me to be a completely unnecessary exercise. We therefore call on the rapporteur to ask the Presidency and the Government to bring this debate up to date.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u203	Colleagues, as you know, there is a resolution of the Conference of Group Leaders and of the Assembly. Moreover, it was known that there would be constant scrutiny by the Budget Commission and this was taken into account at the Conference of the Leaders. In any case, I would point out to Senator Paolo Romani that the stage of the illustration of the amendments in question, which are maintained, should nevertheless take place. Another thing would be if the amendments were no longer present and were not to be presented in any case. I therefore believe that today's work would not be useless, and we will therefore continue to examine it, as decided by the Conference of Leaders. I would therefore like to give the floor to Senator De Petris to explain the amendments he has signed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u204	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u205	I ask you what you intend to do, Senator, because Senator Airola has already spoken for your Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u206	You're welcome, by the way. AIROLA (M5S). The situation has changed since the Conference of Leaders, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is No, it was announced that the Government had tabled amendments, so the situation has not changed. Montevecchi (M5S). At the Conference of the Leaders - the words of Minister Boschi - the Government said that it would table an amendment which would not be entirely a substitute for the text. These are the words spoken by Minister Boschi at the Conference of the Leaders, and I have an elephant memory in this case. I wanted to ask you a question, Mr President, for my own clarification and my own culture. How do we combine this afternoon's presentation of amendments which could then be declared inadmissible by the Presidency? The fact that you say that this work is not useless does not, I think, correspond entirely to the truth, because I might find myself presenting an amendment and then discovering next week that it was declared inadmissible by the Presidency or impervious by the Budget Commission. So, let's get a good look at things and not make fun of each other. If this afternoon we want the citizens to believe that we are working, when we are not, because we are losing an afternoon's work, it is a speech and we can compare it with that. But, if you want to convince us of something that doesn't exist, we're not here because we're not here to be fooled intellectually. We may be newcomers, we may be incompetent, but we are not stupid and the Italian language is well known. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u207	Senator Montevecchi, I'd invite you to stand by the situation. What Mr Boschi said is a reality, because the Government's amendment is not a substitute for it at all, but concerns only an amendment to Article 6, in the face of a bill that contains numerous articles. As far as improcability is concerned - as you know, also because your Group has sometimes made use of this option - it is possible to overcome the contrary opinion of the Budget Commission. Therefore, the explanation of the amendments is made in any case, even when they are declared in violation of Article 81 of the Constitution, because, with a reinforced vote, they can still be put to the vote. There is therefore the possibility, with one vote, of exceeding the opinion of the Budget Commission, so the explanation of the amendments also concerns those on which, in case, there was an opinion contrary to Article 81. Therefore, I would ask you not to be mocked, because I have said things that correspond to reality.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u210	TONINI (PD). Madam President, I think you are right, partly because the Conference of Leaders was very clear yesterday and decided on a timetable which was then confirmed by this House. Montevecchi (M5S). By majority. TONINI (PD). By majority, as required by our Rules of Procedure. Nevertheless, I believe that we must also try to avoid unnecessary wars and discussions between us. A final deadline for discussion of the draft RAI law in the Chamber is provided for in the calendar: explanations of vote and final vote are scheduled on the morning of Friday 31. So it is quite clear that this afternoon, devoted to the illustration of the amendments, was used to carry on with the work, in order to use a technical expression. Otherwise, it is clear that we will have to imagine a few more moments, during the week, in which to recover this time. After that, we have nothing against adhering to a widespread request among the oppositions, also in view of the fact that some Commissions are working at this time. I would like to take the example of the Budget Commission, which has a lot of work to do and which, therefore, is now meeting. But I would like us to do it without arguing with each other. There is no reason to invent particularly sophisticated political motivations. The issue is whether or not we want to use these hours to move forward with the explanation of the amendments, but knowing that the deadline for the final vote is peremptory and we will therefore have to expect a night during the next week. I think this can be decided and agreed between us with fair play and absolute respect, without building controversy about nothing. Then we go back to the Presidency. We have no problem in adhering to the request for oppositions, provided that of course the fixed deadline set by the calendar for the final vote is maintained - of course.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u211	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u212	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u213	RANUCCI, rapporteur. Madam President, it seems to me that a favourable climate has been built in this House to try to overcome a number of issues that have arisen around the text that came out of the Commission. Therefore, taking up the words of Senator Tonini and also of other colleagues, and keeping the deadline for the final vote on 31 July, if these hours can serve to dissolve the nodes formed at this time, I have nothing against the fact that I recover the time next week, constructively. Above all, these hours can serve the Government to arrive at the reformulations of the delegations, as has been announced, and we will try to work in the next week, in some nocturnal session, in order to comply with the deadline of 31 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u214	Of course, there is no preconceived obstinacy to continue a job that I think everyone feels is more useful to postpone until next week. The hope is that the postponement will actually lead to a more peaceful climate. In any case - the Presidency says so that it remains in the proceedings - the deadline set by the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups, according to which the final explanations of vote on the draft law No 1880 and related will be held at the afternoon sitting on Friday 31 July, remains fixed. It seems to me, therefore, that there is unanimous agreement on the proposal to postpone the debate on the draft law in title. If no comments are made, this remains the case. I therefore refer the discussion of the draft legislation to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u215	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u216	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u217	GIROTTO (M5S). Houston, we have a problem. The Government ignores the urgency of setting up the Nuclear Waste Storage Control Authority. We are talking about nuclear waste and radioactive waste: there is nothing more dangerous in the world and we must do storage and dismantling. How long will the Government ignore the urgency of setting up the Nuclear Control Authority (ISIN)? The government had proposed the name Agostini, but it must be withdrawn immediately, because it is incompatible with the assignment, being technically incompetent. Then there is an ongoing investigation, in which he is accused of office abuse and auction disturbance. We have, therefore, a ship without rudder and the problem is that the iceberg in front of us is called nuclear waste. It is precisely in these weeks that the procedures for identifying suitable areas for the construction of the national repository for the storage of radioactive waste are continuing. Most likely in September the games will be completed and no one will have monitored this process, as required by the norm. I hope some distracted colleagues realize that we are talking about nuclear waste and that no one is watching. If that's okay with you... The leaders sit in the government's benches. We have a regulatory vacuum that cannot be managed by the Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA), which is acting as an alternate, but here we are not at school and we are not talking about mathematics or English. ISPRA itself complains of a shortage of competent staff, many have retired and every shifter hypothesis at this time is unthinkable, precisely because the ISIN was not set up. We're in a vicious circle, and it's not just us in the 5 Star Movement who support it, but ISPRA's own director-general who says: A primary objective to be pursued is the adequacy of human resources (...) in relation to the expected acceleration of decommissioning operations of the old power plants and the implementation of the national deposit, with the consequent need to ensure the performance of the related control activities. Therefore, the situation is in complete stall, just when the moment would require rapid and effective reaction times. The government's immobility is paradoxical and extremely deleterious. Is this suspension due to hidden interests? Sogin's supposed police station, which is ventilated from many quarters, what is it hiding? The fact that we want to place comfy characters instead of the most competent and qualified people? We have urged the Government to respond with an urgent question that has not been answered, but we know from some rumors that the Ministers for the Environment and Economic Development have also called for the Presidency of the Council on this point. So, we're waiting for answers. How can people be expected to trust politics if this process of nuclear waste is highly disregarded? [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u218	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u219	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u220	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, last Tuesday, 21 July, the anniversary of the events of the Diaz school of the famous 21 July 2001, which have been added to other tragic and also shameful events that characterized that G8 took place in this Chamber. What happened at the Diaz school that night, among other things, not only constituted, as Amnesty International reported, a serious violation of human rights, but last April the European Court of Human Rights also condemned Italy, declaring that what has been done by the Italian Forces in the invasion of the Diaz must be qualified as torture and asked our country for an adjustment. We know that the competent Commissions are working on the bill for the establishment of the torture crime, on the bill for the introduction of the identification code for law enforcement officials and on draft laws that finally call for the establishment of an independent body for the protection of human rights. These are all things that have been called for loudly and repeatedly in these long fourteen years, every time we have stopped to commemorate that tragic anniversary, which for all of us, unfortunately, represents a moment of shame in the eyes of our citizens and also of international public opinion, because those facts concerned citizens not only Italians, but also of other origins. The most beautiful way in which we could finally remember this tragic page of our history would be to give impetus so that in the Commission these draft laws can move forward and finally arrive in the classrooms of this Parliament and then be able to be adopted. I know that, with regard to the introduction of an identification code for law enforcement officials, a bill that is already ready to arrive in the Chamber and there is another one that is lacking a few amendments to be ready, so also for the establishment of an independent body for the protection of human rights. And I know that the bill on the institution of the torture crime is also in advanced stage of examination here in the Senate, before returning to the House, hopefully to find a lucky and worthy epilogue of this country. The best way for Parliament would be to ensure that these measures follow an appropriate course, but also with adequate time, so that in the autumn we can have those laws and adjustments that require us not only our conscience as citizens of a civil and democratic state, but also the European Court of Human Rights. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u221	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u222	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u223	FUCKSIA (M5S). Madam President, more and more citizens reproach us for not doing what they actually need and, in particular, for making laws that are out of the picture, which do not take account of the parties involved. The Rules of Procedure of the Senate - I remember that the Junta has not yet met to make immediate, easy and sensible changes - does not help the work of us parliamentarians. There are therefore a number of Members - in this case I am referring to more than 50 Members, perhaps almost 100 by now - who meet in the evening, at the end of the House's work, to discuss issues. For example, the format of the innovation intergroup, of which I am a member, is to invite every time an interest bearer, a person of civil reality, to discuss or address innovation issues. Last night, the intergroup, as is customary - usually you meet once a month, but also more recently - met and invited Dr. Benedetta Arese Lucini, representative of the Uber. Since we have never done things in transparency and the citizens do not trust us, because they think that every confrontation is intended to stumble and do something dirty, it has happened that some taxi drivers, seeing this movement, have become suspicious and have thought of something shady, something that was not purely institutional and in the interests of everyone. So, irrationally -- even because they have reason to be angry -- they kind of tipped it off. I would point out that, after dinner, there was a subsequent meeting with those taxi drivers, to whom we explained that the comparison was open and that there would also be with them to discuss apps and new methods, as well as the influence they can have on their work. And so, we've cleared it up. What I want to reproach a person I highly esteem, namely Senator Candiani, who is an intelligent, brilliant person and of whom I have always appreciated the interventions, is that today he subtlely made allusions that they gave to understand something he is not. And since insinuating doubt is a way of exploiting reality and giving voice to something that is not, I say that such a way of doing - we have also recently legislated on defamation - does not honour Parliament. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish your speech, Senator. FUCKSIA (M5S). I'm finishing. It is a way of doing the bad journalism that exploits and the comaries of the square, but not the institutions and senators of the Republic. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator. FUCKSIA (M5S). I'm finishing. So, I mean, it wasn't like that, and I'd like to clear it up. For example, I certainly did not have dinners paid without my knowledge, because first of all in the intergroup everyone pays for his dinner and, secondly, I never took advantage of races through NCC services to go - for example - to the center or to Fiumicino. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator, but you can't argue with individual senators. FUCKSIA (M5S). Sorry, Madam President, but I was indirectly called into question, because it was alluded to at last night's meeting, although no names were mentioned. [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u224	Senator, you've already passed your time by two minutes. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u225	FUCKSIA (M5S). I'm finishing. I just wanted to say that I've never raced with licensed cab drivers, maybe released by the mayor of Cicala, and I never even got diamonds from Tanzania. Maybe someone else will.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u226	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-490.ana.u227	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 27 July, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.29 a.m.
