ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 15 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1818. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report, a preliminary question was rejected, the general discussion took place, the rapporteur and the representative of the Government resumed their reply and the proposal was made not to proceed to the examination of articles NP1 pursuant to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, on the vote of which there was no quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u9	Madam President, the opinion is, of course, in favour of the G1 agenda and, consequently, of the G2 agenda as well, because there are two identical agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u10	Madam President, these are agendas and, as such, a request to the Government to comply with the law, since the Government complies with the laws, returns to the Assembly. [[Laughter on the part of some Senators of the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u11	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda, which is identical to the G2 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u14	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, the Government in the Commission, where it was represented by a different person, showed less sensitivity, stating that it would accept as a recommendation the G2 agenda at my signature and identical to the G1. However, it would be ridiculous for the government to accept as a recommendation an agenda in which the Commission commits itself to respecting the law and the Constitution, but unfortunately this has happened. I consider it to be a good thing that the representative of the Government has now returned to the House on an agenda which was unanimously approved in the Commission and which makes it clear once and for all that we cannot intervene with the urgent decree on electoral matters, which should be sacrosanct, but several times it is repeated and the better, even if in the end the decree-law will be approved. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u15	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on the G1 agenda, tabled by the Commission, identical to the G2 agenda, tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Agendas G3, G4 and G5 are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u16	Madam President, perhaps Amendment 1.1 does not need to be explained in itself, but the option that it puts us today certainly does. We should ask ourselves, in fact, until we can accept that the Government should put its hands and feet, perhaps with boots, on matters from which instead it should abstain, in this case the electoral law, until, that is, the Government intervenes with continuous decree, chronic, I would say almost pathological, because this is really an institutional pathology, constitutional. We should ask ourselves as long as the government continues to give the impression - and then to support it in the acts - of fearing the confrontation and dialogue that is being preached. How long will the government continue to support this impression of fear to let the normal course of things take place and instead to have to intervene on matters excluded from the decree of urgency for fear of losing the elections or in the hope of chasing some vain chase in the Regions where it knows that it has a political class now discredited? A political class discredited by judicial investigations, discredited by often dissonant political choices, with the consequence that a Democratic Party is found on the territory to preach well and in Rome to scramble badly, but also vice versa. How long are we gonna let these things go? I think we should get our backs up and start saying that the Democratic Party is perhaps the time to call a day: the "DS pride, " perhaps. All this, today, we could decide by a simple vote, returning to Parliament, with a yes to this amendment, the dignity and the depth it deserves. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u17	Madam President, I would like to make a brief comment, although I know that the Presidency cannot be held responsible for the declarations that the agendas are imprecise. Of course a good hand to the government gives it to him with the impponibility, because there was the opportunity, for the first time, to hear someone from the government express themselves about the opportunity or not to put trust on electoral reforms, or use them to change the Italicum before it left. We shall see him in evidence of what will happen to the House of Deputies. So, we'll be careful observers. Mr President, I would like to comment on Amendments Nos 1,100 and 1.0,100. I think the first amendment makes something a little less ugly. I address the Undersecretary Pizzetti, who is unfortunately not only disturbed by the senators who talk to him, but, above all, always has the ungrateful task of coming to replace his colleagues when there are some slippery topics in question. So, just as this morning, in a moment of deep condolence, the Minister of the Interior was not present, even this afternoon we are talking about electoral matters and neither is the Undersecretary for the Interior to appeal to. In fact, if it is incorrect - as I said this morning - to make a law extending by six days the sixty already extended by the law of stability, this is not acceptable, but acceptable, if one were to use the law once. If, however, this will remain in our system, it would really be unacceptable. The amendment introduces the concept provided for in the Decree-Law, but so that it is used only once in 2015. I would also like to mention Amendment 1.0.100, which introduces the possibility of holding regional referendums on the same day as the election day. I say this because the regional referendums are taking quite hold and involve - I tell you the expenditure planned for the Lombardy Region - the payment of 30 million euros for their performance, which would be reduced to less than seven-eight if they were to be carried out simultaneously. We have already dealt with this issue in the Commission and Senator Lo Moro had rightly raised the question of whether autonomy on the definition of the date could be affected. Therefore, the amendment has been reworded, providing that it is at the request of the Region concerned. On the other hand, the Ministry of the Interior had raised difficulties with regard to the overlapping of voting procedures and, therefore, it was foreseen that it was the Region itself that had to adapt to voting arrangements in electoral matters. This amendment makes it possible to conduct the two events on the same day, with a saving - I quote that of the Lombardy Region - of over 22 million euros. If you go to other regions too, that would be of equal benefit. Therefore, both for what this legislation provides for for once and for the subject of the referendum, I expect the rapporteur and the government to show sensitivity here in this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u18	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u19	Senator Crimi's amendment 1.1 calls for withdrawal, otherwise the opinion is against it. The same applies to Amendment 1,100. On Amendment 1.0.100, tabled by Senator Calderoli, I would like to make a brief argument. As Senator Calderoli mentioned earlier, this amendment has been widely discussed in the Commission because it provides for the possibility of holding regional or administrative elections, regional or administrative referendums at the same time. On the question of principle the Commission was and is broadly in favour. Some difficulties have been encountered which would probably require an agreement between the Government and the Regions in the State-Regions Conference. Therefore, if Senator Calderoli is available, I would urge him to turn the amendment into an agenda on which, of course, the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u20	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion. With regard to the request for the agenda for amendment 1.0.100, the Government agrees with the rapporteur's proposal with the reasons expressed by the rapporteur. There is no opposition on the part of the Government in principle, but only a problem of the risk of mismatches between regional and national referendums, so the rule needs to be further deepened. Therefore, by entering the formula "to assess the appropriateness of "the Government" it is in favour of accepting it as an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u21	I would ask those present whether they accept the rapporteur's call to withdraw amendment 1.1. ENDRIZZI (M5S). No, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u24	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u25	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask Senator Calderoli if he accepts the rapporteur's invitation to withdraw amendment 1,100. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). No, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u28	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I rise to declare the vote in favour of this amendment which says what the Decree-Law should have said from the outset. In fact, even on marginal issues, electoral matters are not changed by decree-law. This time they told us about the problem of the overflow of the festivities, which we know for centuries would have had this succession, figuratively from the year and beyond in which the current government is in office. They should have thought about it before, but this can still happen. But then, on March 18th, then at the last moment, there is a decree-law changing forever the procedures for carrying out consultations. In the past this had been done with the agreement of all political forces, contacted before presenting the measure, and then only for the ongoing consultation, the imminent one for which there really was need and urgency. In this case there is not even the need and urgency to change it forever. There is the urgency to change it this year - the need is still to be seen - but to change it forever the urgency is not there. It should therefore be the Government that asks for the approval of this amendment because in this way the decree-law would be acceptable. Without the adoption of this amendment, we are faced with a decree-law that may have been tabled in order to force it. In fact, if it were a possible date on 24 May, they would have tried to approve it on 31 to make the forcing, to create a precedent. Let's be clear: you want to make yet another force. Let's hope someone thinks about it and stops in time, because from force to force, ninety years ago we ended up badly. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u31	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I asked to speak simply to confirm that our Group will also vote in favour of Amendment No 1,100, without prejudice to our opposition to voting on 31 May on the occasion of a bridge: only those who do not want to allow citizens to participate dare to do such an operation. However, we believe that the only case in which we can intervene with a decree-law is that of upcoming elections, which cannot be carried out within the time limits laid down in the current legislation. Therefore, the only case in which a decree-law can be considered in this matter is that of an intervention on elections that must take place in the current year, at the same time. In our view, therefore, it would be appropriate to do otherwise, but at the same time to achieve the objective. If the objective is to vote on 31 May 2015, what is the reason for touching definitively and forever the legislation that regulates the duration of the Regional Councils, giving the possibility to extend it up to sixty-six days? It is already possible to extend up to sixty days: the measure under consideration provides, forever, the possibility of extending the deadline for a further six days. If the objective, which justifies the necessity and urgency, is to vote on 31 May of this year, to intervene only for this year and not forever, through a modification of the legislation in force through a decree-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u32	I call on Senator Calderoli to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,100. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.0.100. Senator Calderoli, do you accept the rapporteur's invitation to turn amendment 1.0.100 into an agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u33	Madam President, I understand all the difficulties, including from a technical point of view, and I therefore welcome the Government's call to turn the amendment into an agenda. I hope that the representative of the Ministry of the Interior will take this matter to heart, as he said he wanted to do in the Commission, and that at the unified conference the subject will really be brought to the attention, because there are tens of millions of euros dancing. Beyond the fact that the Ministry of the Interior is historically very resistant to changing even just a stone of its own courtyard, this time it must show us this opening. I therefore accept the change to the agenda, which I would ask to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u34	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G1.0.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u37	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to address the rapporteur and the representative of the Government: I do not understand why the amendment cannot be accepted as it is. The difficulties are all overcome. At the moment when it says that "at the request of the Region" (therefore there is a first assumption: the Region must make demand and it is not an obligation), "before adjustment by the Regions concerned" (so the Region that makes request must adapt the modalities of conduct of its referendums, so that they are compatible with the modalities of conduct of the elections: there is therefore a second step), the convocation of voters for all referendums can take place - it must not - on the same date referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, I cannot understand why it cannot be accepted that the norm is included in the decree-law in these terms: so it is very clear. The Region must make request and it must adapt. In its full autonomy, it may decide not to make a request and not to adapt. If it does, the government can make a decision (because, I repeat, it is not mandatory). Perhaps there is a fundamental reason for this: we do not want to open a window of this kind because we know very well that referendums are an instrument which must be boycotted as much as possible. When there is a referendum, this usually tries to intervene with respect to issues that politics, and politicians, do not approve. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We must then turn to the citizens, to be able to impose something that, instead, those who govern, those who direct the Regions or those who are in Parliament could do independently; then there is the obligation to turn to citizenship to impose something, when this could be done directly in the institutional bodies. We must therefore boycott that instrument, as always and, as we have already seen in the constitutional reform. I still do not see any reason why this amendment written in these terms, which is different from the original wording of the text in the Commission - in which I understood the objections - cannot be accepted directly as an amendment rather than as an agenda which, as we know, leaves the time it finds.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u38	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.0.100, tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u39	I call for the amendment to be withdrawn, or the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u40	I give my assent to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u41	I ask Senator Crimi if he accepts the call for the withdrawal of amendment 2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u42	Madam President, I insist on your vote. I would also ask that the vote be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u43	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u46	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, we have expressed all our doubts about this decree-law already in the explanation of vote on the question referred to us this morning, so we can only vote against it. The reasons for this are very clear as far as we are concerned and were also seen in the vote just now, when the amendment was rejected which meant that the derogation only concerned the 2015 elections. Therefore, the rule itself is permanently changed, and the instrument of the decree-law is used to do so. We are very pleased that the agenda of the G1 Commission and that of the same tenor, the G2, which commits the Government not to violate the law and not to use the decree-laws in electoral matters, has been unanimously accepted, but it is clear that this decree-law is a source of future trouble. Frankly, we do not understand why we have not really managed to find a date for holding these elections and we are very concerned that this decree and the choice of that date on 31 May will be a further incentive to not participate in the vote. For last year's regional elections in Emilia-Romagna, there have been many speeches in this House, there has been a great deal of scandal, and it has been reflected above all on the fact that, in a region like that, the percentage of participation in the vote had plummeted to below 50%. We risk offering an additional incentive not to take part in the vote for the next election on this road. The citizens are already quite distrustful and unloved and the picture that emerges from the elections - I would like to mention Liguria - can lead to further distrust. It was a choice that, at this point, confirms what we were told. It was obviously not just a rhetorical artifice that we wanted to discourage participation in the vote, given, among other things, that the elections were considered, especially the direct and the first level, almost superfluous, promoting second-level elections, as has been seen with the Provinces and as will be seen if the constitutional reform for the Senate will be finally approved with the referendum. This decree, however, in my opinion, is proof that ours was clearly not a rhetorical artifice, but that there is a substance in the fact that this Government is not very interested in the participation of citizens in the elections; moreover, it is the third Government that we have that is certainly not an expression of the vote and of the citizens themselves. The other very sensitive issue is that for the first time a date for elections will be changed without a minimum of consultation between the political forces. The electoral rules should put everyone on an equal footing and, therefore, on such a sensitive issue it has always been right to have a more general consensus. There has been a totally different choice and, I repeat, we could at least make a decree-law that would change the situation only for this year. On the other hand, this amendment, as we have seen, has also been rejected and I find it really ludicrous that, indeed, we have gone looking for parties, even civil ones (with all due respect for those provided for in the various agreements) to prevent the holding of elections. Using the Alpine rally to avoid the elections within the time limit set by the sixty-day law seems really ludicrous to me, it is an excuse that frankly does not stand. There are a lot of reasons to vote against, the main one is the fact that this risks being a precedent for other uses and we are very concerned. I want to say this one more time. We today, like SEL, have chosen to abandon the work of the Commission committed to the House on electoral law because, after the replacement of ten MPs of the PD, I think that we have arrived at an exercise of arrogance by a minority - which can really manipulate the will and formation of the laws - that had not been seen frankly. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u49	TORRISI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, as has already been pointed out by the rapporteur, Senator Migliavacca, the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of the Interior Angelino Alfano, has approved a decree-law that sets the election day and establishes that for it the first Sunday useful is 31 May 2015, this for the long-awaited regional and administrative elections. The regions for which you will go to the ballot box are Veneto, Liguria, Tuscany, Marche, Umbria, Campania and Puglia. In total, there will be just over 17 million voters asked to vote, a vote that perhaps will inevitably be read in terms of holding the political parties and alliances at national level, as well as the political weight of the current Government. On the same day of May the election day will also be voted for the renewal of municipal councils and mayors of as many as 1,089 municipalities. It is 13.5 percent of the total of the Italian municipalities; among them there are 18 capital cities, of which two with less than 15,000 inhabitants. Decree-Law No 27 of 17 March 2015 introduces the possibility of celebrating regional elections (and no implication or analogy may have for national elections, as feared in a manner worried by Senator Calderoli) beyond the sixty-day term following the expiry of the council mandate, as provided for in the Stability Act for 2015, in order to allow the conduct of the next administrative and regional electoral consultations on a single date, first of all for the rationalization of public expenditure. It is therefore a measure that allows flexibility in the time frame within which the conditions for conducting electoral consultations can be fulfilled in a matched form. The transfer of the deadline to the next six days is necessary as the renewal of regional elective bodies should take place by 27 May 2015. However, during this period it would not be possible to identify an appropriate voting date, given the coincidence with some religious and civil holidays or other events relevant to the voting turnout. Therefore, the Government's proposal to identify 31 May as the right date for the election day, despite the proximity of the festivity of 2 June, is acceptable. Further postponement would mean the holding of the second round of the local elections in the second half of June, with possible negative consequences on the participation of voters. The intervention, which becomes necessary and urgent in order to make effective the possibility of celebrating in a single day the regional and administrative elections of 2015, not only does not result in new or greater burdens on public finance, but is likely to produce an overall reduction of electoral expenses in line with the aims of saving the provisions on election day. The aim of the measure is therefore to rationalise public expenditure and increase the turnout to the vote; two objectives which are - and must be - at the heart of the reflection on the urgency of all policy-makers. If, on the one hand, the economy requires measures containing public expenditure in general, this is all the more true of expenditure which can easily be reduced, i.e. by having regional and administrative elections voted on the same day and perhaps being able to achieve another objective, perhaps even more important for democracy and representative and political institutions, namely the increase in turnout and participation in the vote. It is useless to recall that in the recent elections there has been a very high abstention, a disturbing spy for democracy itself, especially for the Italian one, which has traditionally recorded high levels, however good, of electoral participation. Suffice it to recall that in the last parliamentary elections of 2013 there was an attendance of about 75% of those entitled, a good figure, although for the first time in the history of Republican Italy the turnout for the elections had fallen below the threshold of 80%. I would not like to talk about the last regional elections in Emilia-Romagna, where there was a very low turnout, only 37.7%, compared to the participation in the previous elections of 2010 in the same Region, where around 68% were touched. The measure we are talking about is therefore aimed at achieving two important objectives: reducing public expenditure and bringing citizens back to the polls. Moreover - and this is no small matter - so far there seems to have been no major disputes and political forces are already engaged in electoral work. In fact, the election day has always been invisible to many political parties, because it was usually proposed to combine national elections with some locals. These were, of course, elections that tried to follow different logics, elections that the parties feared could influence each other with unpredictable results. I therefore hope, Madam President and colleagues, that the date of the elections scheduled for 31 May, with the vote in favour of this decree-law, will not be subject to further slippages, because this would only be a further waste of time. That this, as established by the Council of Ministers, is a reason for our fear of a low turnout at the polls: this is an unfounded fear and due to the fact that 31 May would be the Sunday before the bridge on 2 June. For the reasons I have expressed, I therefore strongly support the Group of the People's Area on this measure. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u52	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today you show, without any doubt, that you have no respect for the citizens, that you prefer to favour abstentionism rather than participation. There is a lack of respect for the many workers in the tourism sector because, although many think that we are opposed to the date of May 31 to favor the holiday bridge, for tourists, in fact those we think are not those who will be able to vote and then leave for the holidays, but the tour operators. Consider that about 17 million people will be put to the vote and that the seven regions involved have a particular tourist vocation. It is Liguria, Apulia, Campania, Veneto, the low Umbria, the Marches, Tuscany, Regions in which there will be many operators who will find themselves forced not to be able to vote because it will begin just then the period in which they begin to lend their work; it is the first period in which we can rise - perhaps - after a period of crisis that has hit that market too. It is ridiculous to seek excuses, such as the presence of civil and religious festivities (researched with the lantern and perhaps not even considered in the past); equally ridiculous is the history of the Alpine rally (some municipalities make the request for some citizens who must attend the rally). Honestly, I find it inappropriate... [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] I am not referring to the 300,000 Alpines; they are not all of the Regions involved in the vote. Lombardy and Trentino-Alto Adige do not vote and are regions with a large number of alpine! So don't call back those numbers that have nothing to do with it, Senator Giovanardi! Let's go back to the speech. We arrive at 31 May - let us be honest - not because we cannot extend it further, but because we did not vote before, and why did we not vote earlier? Why didn't you vote in mid-April, or in the early days of May? Not because of the holidays, but because you hadn't made the arrangements yet. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You hadn't yet defined who has to win here, letting them win there, or who wins there and who else wins here, giving you a helping hand, as in fact happens in the regions where splits are made. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] An agreement between the Lega Nord and Berlusconi or between PD and SEL had not yet been established, in some cases. I call, among other things, on SEL's colleagues to take an act of courage, if they still have it, withdrawing from all the Councils and all the Regional Councils, in which they sit together with the Democratic Party, after what happened today in the Chamber of Deputies in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If you have a minimum of pride, a minimum of independence withdraw; drop those joints where you are a crutch. Once again, abstentionism will be promoted and you have no other excuse. There is no doubt, however, that even this time a wave will overwhelm you and many of you will be swept away [[Ironic comments by the PD Group]] in the regions where the 5 Star Movement is and in which it will be voted; in some cases it might even come some surprise. A few surprises may come! Surely many of you will not be elected because there will be other citizens who will be elected to the Regional Councils, despite voting on 31 May! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] CASTALDI (M5S). Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u55	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for us, election day is an indisputable necessity in times of spending review, and it is certainly not only an Italian prerogative, since the amalgamation of electoral rounds of different kinds is now being used in many democracies. However, the Forza Italia Group will abstain on this measure and I will of course explain why. Meanwhile the first anomaly was to intervene by decree-law, written in strict bureaucrat to establish, after a very winding path, that the first Sunday useful to vote is May 31, 2015. Often, as is known, the bureaucrat is the means of concealing the true intentions, and the doubt that this decree was conceived as a useful precedent for intervening subsequently on the date of entry into force of Italicum is, at this point, more than legitimate. But how did we arrive at the date of 31 May and why did we not vote on it at the appointed time? The first change, another anomaly, took place through the last law of stability, a financial maneuver that with electoral issues should have nothing to do with it. But the government evidently had an interest in amending the old law on regional elections to avoid too close a vote. The old rules provided for the vote one week before the Sunday of the last elections, at the end of the five years of the term of office, and since we went to the polls for the Regional Councils in 2010 on 28 March, the appointment would have fallen on Sunday, 22 March. Too soon. A codicil, paragraph 501, has then been added to the stability law, entitled own election day, to move the vote of municipalities and regionals within sixty days of the expiry of the mandate, i.e. by 28 May. But the offices, I do not know if of the Viminale or of Palazzo Chigi, had not taken into account the pitfalls of the calendar 2015, packed with religious and civil celebrations that crossed with the possible dates of the vow: religious, Christian and Jewish festivals, such as Easter and Pentecost, and civilians, such as the anniversary of the Liberation, the Labour Day and the national assembly of the alpines. A juniper that has led to another variation and another norm, another codicillo, to lengthen the date of the vote to 31 May, which is, for the record, not only the day of the Most Holy Trinity, but above all a very close Sunday to the feast of 2 June, the Feast of the Republic, which falls on the following Tuesday. Shall we make this clear? To hold an important electoral round, as are all the elections in Italy, to which national political value is attached at the beginning of the first virtually summer bridge, is at least a gamble, also because the trend of the turnout to the vote for the regionals is not very reassuring from this point of view. For this reason the hypothesis of postponing the election day to 7 June was also open, but in this case the ballots would have slipped to 22 June, an absolutely impossible summer date, also because - I would like to remember - the last regional ones, those of 2014, did not vote even 40% of those entitled. This is to say that with the disaffection in place by the electorate it would have been much more appropriate to call the regionals before the jam of the impediments and, above all, before a festive bridge. But the political calculation of the government obviously prevailed over these reasonings. It should also be noted that these continuous changes in dates have led to another set of anomalies at the limit of the law, because it is not for a whim that in the forty-five days before the vote the regional councils must enter the limbo of ordinary decisions. The reason is quite obvious: the legislator wanted to avoid the indiscriminate production of electoral laws and legends. But there is also another anomaly: at a time when it is possible to extend such broad mandates, one also ends up altering the principle that the duration of the elect is five years. For the Regional Councils elected on 28 March 2010, the legislature will last exactly five years and two months, a sort of extra time for the outgoing regional councillors who could favour them in case of re-funding at the expense of the other candidates, with the addition that a few hundred advisors from seven regions are receiving the allowance for two more months, in the face of the much-warned spending review. In short, a mess that could have been avoided if the government, out of malice or - I believe - by malice, had decided that to vote in March, in the set time, would have been politically less convenient for the center-left, perhaps to have the time to find among the folds of the Document of economy and finance, a treasure to spend in electoral function, a treasure that moreover does not exist, as clearly certified in these hours from the ECB and Bankitalia. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u58	Mr Russo (PD). Madam President, before announcing the Democratic Party's vote in favour, I would like to recall three elements of this debate quickly, including to return to the heart of the measure we are going to vote on. In fact, this evening's debate - which is also interesting - seems to have made us lose the main fact, namely that today we are going, in a precise way, to certify the possibility of voting on a single date, on 31 May, for elections concerning local authorities, which had already been convened by the Ministry of Interior for that day, and for regional elections. This is the subject of the measure that we are voting on, which - I would like to remind you - contains in itself two elements that are absolutely acceptable in this House and above all by the citizens. The first is the objective savings that the measure brings with it, which I believe has entered into the common feeling of this Parliament, of the political class and, in particular, of our fellow citizens, who would not understand different choices. The second element - and I say this in contrast to some of the comments heard here - is precisely the objective of promoting maximum participation in the vote. We know, in fact, that joining the elections for regional councils with those of local authorities will necessarily and hopefully lead more Italians to participate and to vote. In this regard, I want, without controversy, to tell my colleague Crimi that it is not so trivial to avoid the coincidence of the date with the great meeting of the alpines in L'Aquila. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] The Eagle, by the way, is a symbolic city and I must not stress it here. The number of Alpines who will come down to L'Aquila from the Veneto Region, a natural reservoir of participation in these great events, which see hundreds of thousands of people mobilize, would suffice to justify the attention that this House, again this time, tries to devote to this national event. I would also like to remind you that what we are about to convert is a decree-law that fully meets the requirements of the Constitution. This is certainly an urgent matter, given the imminence of the electoral round, and on time. As we have said, in fact, it is aimed solely and solely at encouraging the amalgamation of regional and administrative elections. In addition, in order to remove any possible reason behind it, I would like to point out that this is a completely contortional rule: this is what the Constitutional Court tells us. We are not innovating the case law of the Court and there is no risk that this would constitute a precedent compared to anything. It is clear, in fact, and I repeat this once again, that even outside this House it would be absolutely incomprehensible to block today an administrative machine that has already started, with all the requirements required by the current legislation; it would certainly not be possible to do anything else at this time. These are the reasons why the Democratic Party Group will vote, therefore, firmly in favour of the bill of conversion of the decree-law under consideration. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u61	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u62	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u65	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, this morning we have not only remembered, but also held a small and brief debate on the tragic events of the dead in the Sicily Canal. Many have of course also referred to the European summit. I am convinced that it would be absolutely appropriate for the President-in-Office of the Council to come to the Chamber tomorrow, as is likely to be the case in the House, to report on what position Italy will take at that summit. I believe that it is absolutely essential that Parliament should be able to discuss this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u66	In response to this request, I shall convene the Conference of Group Leaders and suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 5.50 p.m. and resumed at 6 p.m.17 p.m.) The session is resumed. As agreed by the Conference of Leaders, tomorrow morning, at 10.30 a.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications on the extraordinary European Council on Thursday 23 April. The time for discussion will be harmonised by the Presidency in such a way that the vote on any policy instruments takes place by 1.30 p.m. Tomorrow the Assembly will hold a single sitting, suspended from 1.30 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. This meeting will be concluded at 6.30 p.m. to allow a meeting of a parliamentary group. The Conference of the Leaders also shared the timing for the discussion of the 2015 Economic and Financial Document.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u67	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1577.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u70	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Mr President, I rise to speak on Amendment No 1,321, which was previously put aside, for which a solution has been found. On amendment 1.321, as on amendment 2.354 and others of this kind, the opinion supports the following rewording: If the Government does not intend to comply with parliamentary opinions, it shall re-transmit the texts to the Chambers with its observations, with any amendments, accompanied by the necessary additional information and reasons. The relevant Commissions may express their views on the Government's observations within ten days of the date of the new transmission of the same observations in accordance with the preceding paragraph. After this deadline, the decrees may still be adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u71	I invite the representative of the Government to comment on the rewording proposed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u72	I give my assent to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u73	I would ask the first signatory of amendment 1,321, Senator Guerra, if it accepts the rewording proposed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u74	Yes, Mr President, I welcome you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u77	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I understand the reason for this request, but it seems to me that the solution introduces in our legal system and in our regulations a further non-existent prediction until now. Sometimes we have approved delegations with the double parliamentary passage, but in accordance with the thirty-day timetable. Let us now introduce a further wording, and then let us say that we need to simplify. All this contradicts declarations of intent and introduces further complications into the order. Among other things, it explicitly codifies in the law the possibility, which also exists in the constitutional dictation, for the Government to disassociate itself from the opinion of the parliamentary committees. This is good as long as it happens under established and constitutionally envisaged legislation. We must now, however, almost legitimise, as a Parliament, the Government's intention to disregard the views of the Commissions, although all governments have done so in time. But that this intention must, in a very Byzantine way, be put back to the Chambers and then, once again, to a further opinion, which may be further disregarded, with a time limit different from that normally provided for in the opinion of the Commissions, I would have understood that if the second step were to armor the text on Parliament's opinion. But if the second step is to take place in unusual terms, innovating on our regulations and on constitutional practice and with the further prediction that the text can still be launched, it seems to me that this is an area which does not benefit the simplification and speed of our legislative procedure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u80	Mr Warra (PD). I believe that Senator D'Alì's observation is not acceptable, because we already have precedents. I am thinking, in particular, of the tax delegation, in which a wording is used, which has been reproduced and respected in the course of the 30- and 10-day period, also by the rewording proposed by the rapporteur. It is simply a normal dialectic between Parliament and the Government. Recently, also for the simplification decree, it happened that, in the light of the Commission's observations, the Government returned to the Commission to explain why it considered it possible to follow up only a few remarks and how it had interpreted some observations. This has made it possible for Parliament to give its full and strong support. It is a question of bringing back to an institutional dialectic problems which, otherwise, could take inappropriate paths. The precedents are: tax concessions, almost always, have been made in these terms and the times are exactly the same. There is no innovation of substance in the procedure proposed by the amendment, including in the rewording of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u81	We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1,321 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u84	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I understand that we get used to the worst, but I would like to remind you that, in reality, we should move only and only in the wake of Article 76 of the Constitution and, therefore, when Parliament delegates its legislative power to the Government - unfortunately we have always had cases of non-compliance - the opinions of the Commissions must be taken absolutely into account by the Government itself. I understand the spirit of this amendment, but in the second step a stronger commitment by the Government should be envisaged, in accordance with the wishes of the Commission. I would like to remind you - I see President Finocchiaro - that in the past we have had the occasion - the subject, unfortunately, has always been alive - during the expression of the opinion on the transposition of the directives on the status of refugees, that the opinions of the Commissions were not mere observations, but binding. The previous governments and the present, although they have returned to explain why they have not adhered - this is an example of how they return - to a somewhat binding opinion of the Commissions, tend however to disregard the opinion of the Commissions. Even in the proposed reformulation, I believe that we are moving to a field in which Parliament itself admits that we can do very well without its opinion, even when we return. The deadline is binding on the Government: within ten days the opinion must be given and, with effect from the same, the decrees can still be adopted. That is why we, also on the basis of the proposal for a rewording, will vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u87	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, if this amendment serves to reiterate something that is part of the normal dialectic, as Senator Guerra has just said, it also seems unnecessary for us to have to specify it. Perhaps it would be appropriate for the Government to adapt once and for all, without having to write it, to the opinions that Parliament as a delegate gives on the delegated decrees. It is true that the Government can only legislate by delegation of Parliament, but what Parliament expresses on the decrees subject to delegation is the opinion of the delegate and, therefore, should be taken into account regardless, whether it is practice or is prescribed or not. Unfortunately, Amendment 1,321 (text 2) seems to us simply to try to legitimise a practice that should not even exist. In some ways it's always better than nothing, even if maybe we should start to put aside the least worst and just look for the best. We will vote in favour of amendment 1,321 (text 2), in the hope that Parliament's opinions on legislative decrees will be taken into due consideration, and that what happened a few months ago with anti-mafia legislation will not happen, when a condition voted unanimously by all political forces has been disregarded by the Government, although it was clear that it was going in the wrong direction in relation to the original delegation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u90	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,321 (text 2), tabled by Senator Guerra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall continue to vote on the amendments tabled in Rule 2. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2302, tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,303 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Volpi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2,304. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,305, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words 'of the project'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.305 and amendment 2.306 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2307, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.308, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, up to the words "of Services." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.5 and amendment 2.309 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.12 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators, up to the words 'of the environment'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 2.12 and amendments 2.310 to 2.312 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.9 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u93	BELLOT (Misto-FAL). Mr President, since amendment 2.9 in the reworded text, on which both the rapporteur and the Government have expressed a favourable opinion, is intended to simplify and give more answers to both citizens and businesses, I call on the House to assess this indication and, therefore, to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u94	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.9 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.313, tabled by Senator Volpi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.13, tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.314 is absorbed by the adoption of amendment 2.9 (text 2). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,315 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.316, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.317, tabled by Senators Girotto and Castaldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,318, tabled by Senator Volpi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.319 is absorbed by the adoption of amendment 2.9 (text 2). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,320, tabled by Senator Volpi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,321, tabled by Senator Volpi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,322, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 2,323, tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,324, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,325, tabled by Senators Girotto and Castaldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,326, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,327, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 2,328, tabled by Senators Girotto and Castaldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,329, tabled by Senators Girotto and Castaldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,330, tabled by Senators Campanella and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.331 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.17, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.332, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 2.333, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.24, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.334, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.335, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.336, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.337, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.338, tabled by Senators Girotto and Castaldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.339, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,340, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 2,341, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,342 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,343 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,344, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators, identical to amendment 2,345, tabled by Senator Volpi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,346, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.29, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u97	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, forgive me but, although I am prepared to speed up the work, we often and gladly cannot understand the number of the amendment and we cannot vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u98	You're right to call me back, Senator Santangelo. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,347 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.348, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.349 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u101	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, amendment 2.349 is withdrawn, but is it not possible to do so and put it to the vote? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's already been picked up at the time, Senator Crimes. CRIMI (M5S). That's too bad, because we would have voted for it. I call on the majority to reflect occasionally, because when there are good amendments proposed by the majority, the opposition would be in favour of voting on them: instead, they are withdrawn. So, if there's anyone who should get excited, it's the majority.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u102	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,350, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,351, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,352, tabled by Senators Girotto and Castaldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,353 tabled by Senators Girotto and Castaldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Does Senator Guerra accept the rewording of amendment 2,354 proposed by the rapporteur, with the assent of the Government? Mr Warra (PD). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u105	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I believe that amendment 2.354 (text 2) is the same as amendment 1.321 (text 2) which has already been voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u106	It's the same but referred to in Article 2, Senator Santangelo. It is always the same safeguard, but it refers to another article, so we must vote on it: it is a different delegation from that of Article 1. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.354 (text 2), tabled by Senator Guerra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda for G2.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u107	Mr President, I welcome the inclusion of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u108	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u109	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for the G2100 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u110	We greet the teachers and students of Luigi Lilio in Cirò, in the province of Crotone, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u111	I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 3, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u112	Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 3,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u113	Mr President, the amendments tabled by my Group to Article 3 are consistent with all the votes we have just voted on Article 2 and with all the other amendments that we have tabled, aimed at preserving, even at the Conference of Services, the possibility not only that all the administrations responsible for the protection of health, the landscape and the environment have their own weight, but also that they are not conculcated, as has happened, however, also with the further changes that have taken place with the amendments themselves. Article 3 is another of the most painful points from this point of view. In particular, I would like to point out that, precisely in paragraph 3 of Article 3, the silence is established - agreement also for all those administrations that are responsible for the protection, control and representation of sensitive interests. I am referring in particular to the protection of the environment, health and cultural heritage. I would like to remind you that we have always tried to introduce the mechanism of silence - assent, as if it were a kind of dream, and now Renzi can launch another tweet saying that, after so many years when others have only spoken, he has done so. Even in the worst moments, when all the legislation in charge of environmental protection, landscape and cultural heritage has been tampered with, and in the very long discussion we held on the environmental code, in the end the device of silence-consent, fortunately, has never entered into our legislation. From this point of view, in a country in which I do not think that landscape and environmental protection is a shared value, it will produce very questionable and even devastating results. I would also like to say - I say this here and I say this - that it is clear that we, as far as we are concerned, will also use Europe in this case. I think the government knows perfectly well that there is a risk of an infringement procedure which will result in further increases for the state's coffers. We have tabled a number of amendments on these very points and, fortunately, other political forces have also tabled them. In particular, I wanted to focus on this element and therefore on Amendment 3.14. I would also like to say that it is precisely on the introduction of silence - agreement, provided for in paragraph 3 of Article 3, that I invite everyone to reflect, because it would really weaken the system of protection of the environment, cultural heritage and landscape, a right enshrined in Article 9 of the Constitution. Some colleagues, including the Democratic Party, have recently asked many of us to sign a proposal to amend the Constitution, to strengthen - fortunately - Article 9 of the Constitution. Instead, with the introduction of silence-consent, we are actually giving another blow precisely to Article 9 of the Constitution itself. Alarming - I am sorry to say for my colleague Pagliari - were also the statements of the rapporteur, who said, in the words of the introduction of silence-consent, that it is intended to encourage the preparation of a new discipline of the activities that private subjects can start immediately, without the prior authorization of the public authorities and finally without the annoyance of the administrations that might oppose opinions different and contrary (I think of the superintendences). Then, on the one hand, nothing is done to strengthen the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and, especially in the suburbs, the offices of the superintendences (in fact, we do the opposite) and then we make sure that, in the delegation on the public administration, we establish silence-consent, not enabling the administrations responsible for the protection to be able to carry out their profession and therefore their work and to be able to express their opinion, in certainly reasonable times, because what we really want is to weaken the mechanism of protection. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u114	Mr President, I too have tabled an amendment similar to that of my colleague. Unfortunately, it is important in this House to repeat the words, which are becoming increasingly meaningless. Amendment 3.13 calls for the deletion of paragraph 3, which also extends to entities that are relevant in the environmental field, if you have to acquire absences, concerts or nothing prevents, silence-consent. Clearly this paragraph is only yet another small part of an overall plan, which has its maximum expression in the "unblock Italy," but which also has a very clear development in all the provisions of this legislature, which tend to take away decision-making power from territorial authorities. It is true that we are talking about an agreement-silence between bodies (this does not escape us); but it is also true that we, as far as all matters and decisions in the environmental field are concerned, would be obliged to comply with Law 108 of 16 March 2001. It is a law - absolutely forgotten in Italy, like many others - of the transposition of a very important convention, that of Aarhus, which would expect not to hear the opinion of bodies between institutions, but to give rise to public assemblies with contradiction with the citizens, whenever a decision must be taken with some environmental weight or value on those territories. On the other hand, we are going in a completely different direction, always clearly with the banner of simplification, and yet we are told, in the various reports and committees of inquiry dealing, for example, with corruption in the public administration or listening to the PMs that repeatedly have to report on the reasons for corruption and lack of control, that the problem is oversimplification. On the other hand, we are going as trains towards that direction, because probably our interest is not really simplification, but removing all those controls, especially in the environmental field. I regret that I did not have time to ask to add my signature to Amendment 2.13 - my colleague Fucksia will forgive me - because it would have been very interesting. We are clearly in favour of simplifying and shortening the bureaucratic times of the administrations, but we must seek and seek dialogue in these classrooms and in the Commissions in order to find different solutions, that are not those aimed at removing all controls and all eyes on each other, whatever act or discipline may create obstacles to the private interest, which - we must remember - according to the article of the Constitution, must always be implemented in a public sphere and in the public interest, otherwise it is certainly in violation of the rights of all. I therefore ask for a moment's reflection on this matter, including on behalf of a 93-year-old activist, Mr Giacomo Buonomo, who calls me every time a measure comes out in this parliamentary term, inviting me to remind this House of the Aarhus Convention. I invite you then to listen also to the wisdom of men who have lived in other years and who have tried on their skin the impoverishment of this institution. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u115	The remaining amendments and the agenda are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u116	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u117	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. [[Ironic applause from Senator Nugnes]] , while I am in favour of the G3.100 agenda (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u118	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u119	Amendment 3,300 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3301.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u122	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, in calling for simultaneous voting by electronic means, I would like to point out a correction to be made because of an error: the M5S Group's vote on Amendment 2.9 is against.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u123	Senator Santangelo, you will remain in the record that your vote was against. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3301, tabled by Senator Bignami and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3302, tabled by Senator Santangelo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.303, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, up to the words 'President of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of Amendment 3.303 and Amendment 3.7 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.14 tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, identical to Amendments 3.13 tabled by Senator Nugnes and other Senators, and 3.304 tabled by Senator Puppato. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Santangelo and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 3.16. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 3.305, tabled by Senators Bignami and Mastrangeli, up to the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 3.305 and amendment 3.306 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3307, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.308, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G3.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u124	Mr President, I am in favour of amendment 4307, in the revised text, while the remaining amendments are opposed to the opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u125	The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u126	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.5. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.5 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4,300, tabled by Senator Ceroni and other senators, up to the word "precise". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 4,300 and amendment 4,301 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4302, tabled by Senator De Pin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.7, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.303, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators, identical to Amendment 4.304, tabled by Senator Volpi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.305, tabled by Senator Volpi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4306 tabled by Senator Volpi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.8, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.9 tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,307 (text 2), tabled by Senator Guerra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.308, tabled by Senators Campanella and Bocchino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 4 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u127	I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u128	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u129	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1 SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,300, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5301 tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.302 tabled by Senators Bonfrisco and Bruno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.303 tabled by Senator Bruno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.304, tabled by Senators Galimberti and Bruno, identical to amendments 5.305, tabled by Senators Fabbri and Russo, 5.306, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other Senators, and 5.307, tabled by Senator Volpi and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.308, tabled by Senator Fabbri, identical to amendments 5.309, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators, 5.310, tabled by Senator Galimberti, and 5.311, tabled by Senator Volpi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.312, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Volpi and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5.313. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 5.314, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators, up to the word "activity". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 5.314 and amendment 5.315 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.316, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.317, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators, identical to amendment 5.318, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.319, tabled by Senator Lo Moro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,320, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.321, tabled by Senator De Pin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.322.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u130	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u132	ENDRIZZI (M5S). This is another example of a positive amendment, which we are prepared to support, because it states that, if authorisations have been granted and, however, there has been a substantial and serious change in the framework on the basis of which they had previously been granted by the public administration, it is still possible to cancel, with exnunci effects, i.e. since then, without prejudice to the precedent and enjoyment of the relative advantages, until a cause of force majeure has occurred, a collective interest which deserves to be protected. It is therefore a balanced amendment, which saves both the rights enjoyed until then and the benefits, needs and needs of the community for the future. I therefore declare the 5 Star Movement's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u133	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.322 tabled by Senators Dirindin and Lo Moro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.23 tabled by Senator Bruno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.324, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.0.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u136	FUCKSIA (M5S). Concerts are often an obstacle to the implementation of laws, which refer to the definitions of important aspects for the regulation of a given subject to a ministerial act. It is now of the utmost importance to establish precise deadlines and procedures to overcome the lack of concert by the Ministry or the Ministries, in order to allow the effective implementation of the law to which the concert refers in a short time. It is very important to establish ways of making the laws effective and allowing our legal system to finally get out of this regulatory stagnation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u137	Senator Pagliari, do you confirm the opposite opinion on Amendment 5.0.3? Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. I confirm the opposite view, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Government representative also confirms the opinion. I therefore refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.3 tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the amendments which cannot be accepted as a result of the opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, expressed by the Budget Commission, amendments 6.309, 7.114, 7.433, 9.443, 9.0.303 and 15.321 are inadmissible, in accordance with Rule 126-a, paragraph 2-b of the Rules of Procedure, as they are not related to the amendments proposed by the Commission. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 6, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u140	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. After the 'charge of 101' amendments put to the vote, I would like to ask for ten minutes' suspension: a colleague could not vote and it is unpleasant to have to abstain for personal reasons.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u141	Colleagues, a request has been made by a colleague. If no one explicitly opposes this, the Presidency will follow up on this request, which I understand. As there are no comments, this remains the case. I therefore have a brief suspension of our work. (The sitting was suspended at 7.14 p.m. and resumed at 7.25 p.m.) Let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u144	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to clarify the reasons why the Presidency has declared Amendment 6.309 inadmissible. I'll tell you why. I read in Article 6 of the draft law that we are discussing that the Government adopts within six months one or more legislative decrees to amend legislative decrees no. 33 and 39 of 2013, which are both mentioned in this amendment. The text proposed by the Commission states: "In the matter of inconferability and incompatibility of tasks with public administrations and private entities subject to public control". The amendment signed by colleagues Fucksia and Morra proposes to adopt one or more legislative decrees with corrective provisions of Legislative Decree No. 39 precisely in the matter of inconferibility and incompatibility of tasks, in particular giving precise indications and directives on the administrative positions at the top of the state, regional and local administrations, on the positions of director of public, national, regional and local bodies, on the positions of manager for those who have held the post of President of the Council of Ministers, Minister, Vice Minister, Undersecretary of State and Extraordinary Commissioner of the Government. In other words, since the draft law we are examining will address the issue of the revision of incompatibility and inconferability, Amendment 6.309 proposes to extend also to the members of the Government, including the Sub-secretaries who do not have incompatibility as senators or deputies or for other positions, all the incompatibility already provided for by so many other institutional figures. Can you agree on the matter or not, and I am sure you won't because you want a Minister or a Undersecretary not to find a place for him in a public body after he has finished his post, if he doesn't have a Member's or Senator's pension? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Somehow you have to find a place. Therefore, you can vote against the substance of the amendment, but I really do not understand the inadmissibility of the amendment, because we are talking about incompatibility and inconferability to be introduced in legislative decrees no. 39 and 33 of 2013. You say the opposite as we imagine, but let's not make fun of each other. The subject is the same and amendment 6.309 cannot be declared inadmissible because of the extraneous nature of the matter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u145	Senator Crimes, I must confirm to you the inadmissibility for extraneousness of matter, as it provides the impossibility of conferring managerial and administrative duties to subjects who in previous years have held positions of government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u146	Mr President, you are expressing an opinion that is not inadmissible. You are saying that the amendment deals with an incompatibility that the majority does not agree with (I am not talking about you, Mr President, because if it were between the benches it would also vote); you are saying that you would vote no (because this is being said to me), but the matter is perfectly consistent with the one provided for in the draft law that we are voting on. Vote against. Nobody obliges you to vote in favour, for Christ's sake; we would not want to vote for it if we were to increase the incompatibility and inconferability of assignments. However, we are talking about Article 6 of the draft law, which proposes a review of the inconferability and incompatibility of tasks with public administrations and private bodies under public control. Where is the inadmissibility? Mr President, I really do ask you to reconsider this decision. I do not understand where there can be extraneousness of matter when it comes to the inconferability and incompatibility of tasks relating to the two legislative decrees no. 39 and 33 of 2013. It's something I can't even understand with all the effort I can do. I also see perplexed faces in this House, because if this amendment is inadmissible, then everything is. Mr President, forgive me because I really do not know how I can justify this decision.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u147	We shall proceed with the explanation of the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the House's attention to Amendment 6,304, which proposes a delegation not exercised by the Government within the prescribed time limit which extends to the budget of the State the economic accounts which other decrees for the exercise of the same delegation have applied to public administrations. Economic accounting makes it possible to ensure - as is well known - cost analysis, management control, verification of results and that process of reviewing expenditure costs that we are talking about so much. The amendment is in the context of transparency because analytical economic accounting for cost centres certainly ensures greater transparency in the state budget. Let us remember, however, that it must be reconciled with the financial accounts necessary for other primary purposes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u149	Mr President, I would like to strengthen the concept that my colleague, Senator Crimi, has already expressed with reference to amendment 6.309 which had already been proposed during the examination of the anti-corruption bill and also in that case deemed inadmissible, although an agenda of similar content has been accepted. I propose it again on this occasion with the same reasons. This amendment contains a rule to cool the pressure of policy on public administration. How can you say that it is foreign to matter, it is difficult for me to understand. More than anything, it helps to stop this creeping method of relocating parliamentarians rejected or excluded from lists within public bodies. So relevant to the matter is and there is no doubt about it. As I explained last week, an implementing decree of the so-called Severino law precludes the relocation of politicians of regional, provincial and municipal authorities above 15,000 inhabitants for the two years following the end of the assignment. Nothing like this happens, however, for former parliamentarians and former members of the Government. On February 13, the President of the national anti-corruption authority, Raffaele Cantone, on the columns of the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), replied to journalist Sergio Rizzo, wrote: The hope is that this gap can be corrected through the reform of the public administration which is being considered in Parliament. And again: With the reform of the PA, the rules that already apply to local authorities are extended at national level. Do not act like the old politicians who first vote no and then say that they disagree with that measure when it is no longer on the agenda. The time is now and is on the subject; this amendment cannot be inadmissible. If you do not want to listen to the 5 Star Movement (I can also understand you on some occasion) listen to the super-magistrate Canton so praised by everyone by approving this amendment. You will see that freeing entities from the hungry grip of parties, for once in this country, will be the merit to win, and not the spoil system in its worst sense. Let's give an example. However, it is unacceptable that amendment 6.309 should be extraneous to the matter and that it should therefore be inadmissible. If you don't agree, tell him we'll report it to all the citizens. Tell Cantone, too. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u150	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u151	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u152	Mr President, I am against Amendments 6,300, 6.8, 6.9 and 6.301 (essentially identical to Amendments 6.6 and 6.303). I call on the authors to turn amendment 6.302 into an agenda. I call on the authors to turn amendment 6,304 into an agenda, otherwise the opinion is against it. I also object to amendments 6.305, 6.12, 6.306 and 6.21. I have already spoken to Senator Bignami on Amendment 6,307, on the subject of the transformation into the agenda with the formula: "to consider whether it is appropriate to do this," otherwise the opinion is negative. On Amendment 6.308 (text 2) I am in favour. I am against the draft agenda G6100. I am in favour of amendment G6101, if reworded by introducing the formula "to assess the appropriateness of" into the system. On amendments 6.0.5, 6.0.300 and 6.0.301, which are all on the subject of controls in local authorities, I am opposed to this unless we turn it into agendas, because control is an issue that remains on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u153	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u154	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 6,300. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,300, tabled by Senator Bruno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6.8, tabled by Senators Crimi and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u155	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u157	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 6.9 tends to extend the publishing obligations to all data and information relating to management positions conferred on entities outside and within the administration not in possession of management status. The aim is to seek to extend as far as possible the conditions of transparency and publicity of the acts of local authorities and of all public administrations, as well as to make public the procedures by which assignments of organisational positions of any kind, including non-management positions, are given. This is in particular in relation to other elements of this same bill or of the provisions that we have converted into law on the conferability of positions of manager, for example to those who do not possess the qualifications or other, or external assignments, for example in the context of the nominations of the apical offices of the Municipalities and the Provinces, as we shall see in the following articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u158	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.9, tabled by Senators Crimi and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6301, tabled by Senator Volpi and other senators, essentially identical to amendments 6.6, tabled by Senator Biinella and other senators, and 6.303, tabled by Senator Ceroni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Lanzillotta, do you accept the call to turn amendment 6.302 into an agenda? LANZILLOTTA (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the G6.302 agenda will not be put to the vote. Senator Sacconi, do you accept the call to turn amendment 6,304 into an agenda? SACCONI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I welcome the invitation and hope that the Government will accept the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Government had already expressed a favourable opinion on this change in line with the rapporteur's opinion. Therefore, having been accepted by the Government, the G6304 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u161	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, once again we are amazed at the surprises that the majority holds for us. Even in the case of Amendment 6.302 by Mrs Lanzillotta, Mr Maran and Mr Ichino, we would have voted in favour, and this is not the first time. It is also a rather strange case: perhaps it was necessary to seize this opportunity, to have it voted and not to turn it into an agenda. This shows, once again, that the Government orders and the majority executes and not the opposite. Amendment 6.302 had a very precise objective: to identify the effect of reducing public administrations' burdens, i.e. to reduce the burden on citizens and businesses. It was not, therefore, a question of reducing the burdens of local administrations just to make their work easier, but it aimed at a very precise objective: to make life easier for citizens. It meant reducing the burden on local authorities with the aim of reducing the burden on citizens and not just to make the municipalities work faster. It was a sensible rule (sometimes something sensible comes along), on which much of the opposition would vote favorably and which, as usual, is withdrawn and transformed into a useless agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u162	We greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Silvio Pellico" of La Spezia, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u163	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u165	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, once I find myself extraordinarily in agreement with Senators Sacconi and Quagliariello, I see that the Government does not take over an amendment such as 6,304. From our point of view, in fact, when we create control authorities, we have difficulties in identifying the budget folds that would allow, perhaps, to find resources, we cannot say no to a parallel and interesting system that would identify cost centres and avoid linear cuts. I do not understand why, at a time like this, the Government does not accept such a proposal. I am very surprised, because we are here to look at the little money there is and, as soon as rationalization can be achieved through intelligent accounting, in addition to bureaucratic accounting, the Government is merely accepting an agenda. I'm amazed. Senator Sacconi, I sometimes agree with you, but I have to say that this time you had it in full. Too bad your government told you no. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u166	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u167	You have the right to do so. Remember, however, that Senator Crimi has already spoken for his Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u168	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, my colleague, Mr Crimi, spoke about Amendment 6.302. I, on the other hand, relate to what Senator Volpi has already said to supplement his remarks. We are talking about an amendment that would give impetus to the application of what the accounting law provides since 2009, which has still remained a dead letter. We are basically talking about the completion of the state's budgetary structure, which must take into account not only financial accounting but also economic and patrimonial accounting. It is therefore a specific duty of Parliament and of the Government itself. At a time when this possibility has already been foreseen in the DEF, there is an opportunity to set it as a law and as a norm; today, here, at this time, there is no reason to keep it as a generic commitment (we know, in fact, how much the agendas are worth). I really believe that it is speeding up on what is convenient and plagiarizing on what is necessary. I ask the government as much as Mr Sacconi, who is not following me...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u169	Colleagues, the agenda resulting from the transformation of amendment 6.304 has already been accepted by the Government. If you want to represent a political will, that's fine, but we can't go back and turn it into an amendment again.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u170	I would have liked to speak before there was Senator Sacconi's reply, to explain our support, possibly, also functional to his decision. Next time, I'll keep my arm up higher.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u171	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.305, tabled by Senator Amoruso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Bignami, do you accept the call to turn amendment 6307 (text 2) into an agenda? BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G6.307 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.12, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, identical to amendment 6.306, tabled by Senators Perrone and Bruno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.21, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.308 (text 2), tabled by Senator Guerra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 6.309 is inadmissible. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6.00, presented by Senator De Pietro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Moronese, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G6101? MORONESE (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G6101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 6 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would ask the authors of the identical amendments 6.0.5, 6.0.300 and 6.0.301 if they accept the invitation to turn them into agendas?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u172	Mr President, we would also be prepared to turn the amendment into an agenda. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur what it means to pay attention to it. If you explain to me what that means, I also say yes to the agenda, that I would still be voting on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u173	Senator Pagliari, do you confirm your favourable opinion on the possibility of transforming into agendas?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u174	Yes, I confirm the opinion in favour of transforming the agenda into agendas and I repeat what I have already said in the report, namely that the issue of controls in local authorities and one of the issues that is on the agenda for the future...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u175	The authors of amendments 6.0.5 and 6.0.301 are also in favour of turning the agenda into agendas. I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6.0.5, tabled by Senator Bisinella and other senators, essentially identical to the agenda G6.0.300, presented by Senator Volpi and other senators, and G6.0.301, presented by Senator Ceroni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u176	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-434.ana.u177	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 22 April, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.49.
