ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u4	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 9.56 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.36 a.m. and resumed at 9.56 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u8	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV)). Mr President, I again request the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u9	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u10	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u11	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:58 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u12	At the request of President Chiti, the 14th Commission shall be authorised to convene at the end of the afternoon sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u13	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1854, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's afternoon sitting the general debate was over and the replies of the government representatives and the discussion on the question of trust took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u16	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, yesterday we heard the umpteenth litany of Minister Boschi who, on behalf of the Government, recited the rite phrase to demand trust. We have also lost track of the number of trust issues that this Government has asked for. Looking at the provision, the first thing to note is that it is a decree-law. The decree-law provided for in the Constitution is an instrument to be used sparingly and, in fact, only in cases of necessity and urgency is the government allowed to legislate, that is to replace the activity of Parliament, and I repeat necessity and urgency. The measure, in essence, renews the commitments of humanitarian and peace missions, which have expired for more than fifty days now. It would have made sense, a few days before the deadline, to establish by decree-law the necessity and urgency to provide for the reconfirmation of missions: after sixty days can we still support the existence of necessity and urgency? As a first point, the Government decides to use the extraordinary instrument of the decree-law ad libitum, when it considers to do so. Secondly, the government does not even allow Parliament to correct its approach, because it also has the power to put - I would say shamelessly - the issue of trust. The government decides that it does what it wants on this matter, not even allowing Parliament - and this is already a force - to correct the shooting. Every Member of this House must be asked at this point whether his function is to ratify, who must raise his hands whenever President Renzi comes to ask for it in this House. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Specifically, we are also struggling to understand the fact that there has not been a statement by the Presidency of the Republic, which has sometimes rigorously demanded the harmony of the contents within the decree-law. On this occasion, on the other hand, the President of the Republic has also been quite wide-ranging, allowing the adoption of a mixed measure, which contains measures on arms in general, weapons against terrorism, but above all measures on security, defence and international missions. We wanted to say something about guns. Already our producers are penalized for the fact that, compared to all the countries of the world, that they produce and trade weapons legally, most of the time they are subjected to exaggerated burdens for which they lose international bans for the cumbersomeness of the system. With this measure, we are not going to get away with it, but we are going to make these procedures even worse. Secondly, the poor hunters from tomorrow will not even know if the weapon in their possession is legal or not, because we have passed into the provision that, if the weapon is similar to an automatic weapon usable in various other areas, it is not legal. But the similar term is very clear! For me all weapons are similar, because they have a kick, a rod and a trigger. If we use the similar term, no hunter will be able to tell if his rifle from tomorrow is one of those outlaws or is among those admitted. On the question of missions - let's call them as we want, from Mare nostrum to Triton - the League, for a long time immemorial, has always said that they had to be suspended, also because, if we do not realize that we are suffering an authentic invasion, there is little to do. A country that suffers an invasion, first of all does not go to collect those people, and above all does not host them in its best hotels, because we no longer understand each other. Then there are other unpleasant phenomena, of which today we read news in the newspapers, like an assault on our ships of the Coast Guard, which has repeated twice. It was claimed, shooting, in the first place the delivery of the human cargo by the hullists and, secondly, always with the threat of weapons, the return of the boat to return to repeat the operation. Can we still allow this and put unarmed people - like the members of the Coast Guard - at sea by exposing them to such risks? The League insists on the naval blockade, but - it is known - it is a party not inclined to open, from the closed mentality and the racist positions (and you clearly understand my paradox). When, however, the same is true of Mr Bernardino Leon, who I do not think is a known racist, but he is the UN Special Commissioner for Libya, who, precisely because of an international security issue, recriminates the need to implement the naval blockade of ships from the African coasts to Europe, we should at least reflect. If the UN takes these positions and its Commissioner insists on them, this should at least make those who thought it was just a vex or one of the many extreme positions adopted by the North League reflect. The issue of immigration is undoubtedly now an interface with that of national security. We have all understood the great threat that the Islamic terrorist state represents and we have also been able to learn how it finances itself: partly with proceeds from the illegal sale of oil; partly by selling art and archaeological works stolen; largely, then, through trade and trafficking in human beings. The easier we make it on our shores, the more we invite and encourage ISIS: in this way, we will even finance the Islamic State, which has reached up to a few hundred kilometers from our home, on the northern shores of the Mediterranean. If the government had not raised the question of trust, we would have made some requests and proposed some initiatives. For example, yesterday 400 immigrants died from the sinking of a boat, and they are only the last chronologically. We would have proposed to prevent these massacres and the journeys of death, organizing reception camps on the shores of departure and effectively avoiding that so many people risk dying to arrive in Italy and then be returned to their country, because it has no titles to ask neither asylum nor political refuge. We would have asked - for example - for police patrols to be equipped with at least one actual trained specifically to counterterrorism, but we could not do so. We would have asked that all the people who arrive illegally in our country be identified in a sure way, with biometric surveys, that is DNA, as many states do, but we could not ask for it. We would have asked that, without the permission of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, no person should go to war zones or high-risk areas, also because kidnappings are another source of supply for the terrorist state. We would also ask that our country pay no ransom to free kidnapped citizens, previously warned that they could run a huge risk of going to certain countries. Finally, we would also ask that, if Brazil does not cooperate fully with our country, allowing the extradition of a terrorist such as Cesare Battisti [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , we will also have to suspend our political-military cooperation. But we have not even been allowed to discuss these issues, which we list as a series of elusive points and situations to be resolved. How do we trust this government? It is a government whose president Renzi continues to repeat that there will be no new taxes, but then Istat denies it, providing data on the historical record of the tax levy. New taxes on the house; taxes even on pension funds; taxes on agricultural land; VAT that increases on pellets, which are those small wood chips macerated and compacted mostly used in the mountains by normal families to warm up. And then they close post offices, creating huge inconveniences to the population living in those peripheral areas. How can we trust this government? The League can't give it, of course. If you will, dear colleagues, trust Renzi, give it to you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u19	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law to the attention of the Senate concerns two fundamental issues for our country that deserve two different considerations: on the one hand, the role and presence of Italy with peace missions in the international chessboard and, on the other, internal security and international security, with the fight against terrorism. The first consideration on our peace missions leads us to say that we have always had a fairly clear line in agreeing our contribution to the financing of the missions. And we have always made it aware that, through them, the international role of our country comes out strengthened, as part of the global effort in relation to the repression of criminal phenomena. But this role, this participation and this prestige do not have objective reverberations in the daily practice of our presence. The fact that we continue to finance, with the approval of this decree-law, the presence of our Armed Forces in the Indian Ocean to protect the coasts of India, which then does not recognize it in any way and holds captive our two maroons, seems to me a fact really to stigmatize and emphasize in red towards a Government that is unable in the least to assert the efforts, even economic, that we make in order to guarantee peace in the hemisphere overall. We find it very insulting that Mogherini, our former Foreign Minister, who had made specific commitments in this House, is failing, even at international level, in her new role, to assert our reasons. It was said that arbitration was necessary, and this arbitration is not coming. It was said that there was a UN involvement and the UN washes its hands of it. It was said that everyone would move to solve the problem, but after three years this problem does not even have a solution. Today Italy will once again make its effort and, once again, will subtract resources from vital and important sectors at a time of severe recession to ensure, yes, peace, but no longer that international prestige that this Government has put under its feet. And what about the rules that you introduce with regard to the fight against terrorism? In the last five days 8,000 immigrants have landed. It would suffice that eight of the 8,000 were not people emigrated from their territories for need, hunger, war and lack of civil rights, but had landed on our coasts and entered our country with different intentions, to really create a problem of terrorism, a social alarm and a strong vulnus to our internal security. And we only respond to this - it is an almost due act for Italy - by introducing into the internal order what the UN recommended in Resolution No 2178 of 2014: the internal systems must equip themselves for the fight against terrorism. But we're using ourselves in a miserable and absurd way. From a judicial point of view, we also give the anti-mafia authority the powers of anti-terrorism authority. But how do we respond to the need manifested until a few hours ago by the Italian forces of the order to be able to professionalize in the fight against terrorism? How do we respond, then, in the field fight against international terrorism? With the Forces of Order that are exhausted, why in our budgets do we continue to cut the money for petrol, for cars, for professionalization? Those who every day are in charge of the security of our citizens are completely at risk. Once again we have given the title to the decree-law: combating international terrorism. We did the title, but you don't live with titles. With this decree-law we will not give our citizens an extra shred of security. We're ruining the image of our country internationally. It is not just a problem of the Mediterranean. Just a year ago the President of the Council came to this House and asked for confidence in Parliament, the Senate, on the basis of a new Mediterranean strategy, a new strategy for Italy in the Mediterranean. But I could never have thought, then, that this would be the Mediterranean strategy of the Renzi Government. Is this the vision they have of the Mediterranean? All international intelligence points out to us that the issue of migration flows must be dealt with forcefully, decisively and with appropriate instruments. I do not know whether Leon's recipe is right, with the naval blockade in the Mediterranean, or whether there are other initiatives. But the action of an interior minister who is only concerned with the hospitality of immigrants is certainly not fair. I am concerned by a Minister of the Interior who, these days, travels around Italy to look for hotels. Sicily, our Italian Sicily in the Mediterranean, has really become a set of refuge houses. But what image do we give of a Mediterranean Sea in which there are, at this moment, 400 dead as we speak? There are 400 dead in the sea. What image do we give of a territory that has really become only a place of reception of non-EU citizens? What government is that that does not pose the overall problem in a strong way? What government doesn't take a serious position on the Libyan case? In that land, in that nation, in front of a government elected under the aegis of the UN, which must move to Tobruk because it cannot settle in its capital, we do not take positions. Today we recognize even two different ambassadors to represent that nation. But when do we want to deal with problems? When do we want to stop considering Italy as a third-level nation? When will we stop, Mr. Representative of the Government, considering our Maroons as the maneuvering of international policies? When will we stop considering our coasts and frigates in the Mediterranean only in support of the political choices that other nations and other bodies make on this territory? When will we stop underestimating the continuing psychological stress that Sicilian citizens are forced to endure because of the insecurity that is caused by the lack of politics of the Italian State? When will you stop considering a problem that concerns only a remote, extreme and unrepresentative flap for the entire nation, that of the Sicilian Region? That is why, Mr President, we will not be able to give our trust, even though there will be senators in the LAG Group who will do so for reasons of overall political coherence. Most of the Group cannot give confidence to a Government that proves to be confused and approximate in its choices of internal security; to a Government that proves to be really incapable of making all the portions of the territory feel as parts of a single national territory; to a Government that once again places the mortification of Parliament in support of its own government strategies. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV)]] The trust that is being placed has once again prevented us from making improvements to a text that we do not basically agree with, but to which we would have liked to give support and elements of greater effectiveness to the benefit of our citizens. [[Applause from the LAG Group (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u20	We greet the pupils and teachers of the State Professional Institute for Industry and Crafts (Marconi-Einaudi) in Ortona, in the province of Chieti, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u23	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in expressing the support of the Autonomous Group, I would like to make a few points which, with regard to such a measure, are necessary. Italy is a country in which the rule of law remains a fundamental point of reference and this must remain, without giving anything to derogations that could already in themselves represent a victory of those who, through violence, want to impose on our country, but also on the rest of the civil world and more evolved, behaviors absolutely unacceptable. In order to do this, we must maintain precisely a rule of law and the level of high guarantees and, at the same time, act decisively in a preventive action which, however, remains the fundamental activity and, when necessary, develop a just action of repression. This, therefore, is a necessary measure that sees the need to maintain Italy's international commitment in strategic areas, but at the same time I believe that we must reflect on the necessary selection of our commitments. We must assess the priorities for our country and, from this point of view, I believe that we must consider the Mediterranean area as a strategic point of our defence policy, both domestic and foreign. If we maintain a median commitment between the most immediate needs, those of our territory and the surrounding areas, and the most distant international commitments, we would fail to the need to effectively guarantee the national interests that are the priority for defence policy for each country. Therefore, the commitment to the Mediterranean must be strengthened and we must strengthen our activities towards neighbouring countries that have particularly critical situations. From this point of view, it is useless to hide that the Libyan problem is a priority for our country: towards it we should probably devote more commitment both in terms of resources and organizational activity. In order to do this, in a condition of economic difficulty such as the one that is going through our country, there is a need for rationalization of our system of internal protections. I am referring in particular to the police forces, but also to the need to review our capacity for presence abroad through a more extensive organisation in the areas of our particular interest. At the same time, we must not give up the defence of our individual rights. Any setback on this level, as I said before, is in itself a victory for terrorism and for those who want to forcefully impose behaviors other than those which are freely and democratically chosen. The compression of individual rights which, sometimes, could be the shortcut to the objectives of protection and security is certainly, however, when it is accepted, a defeat. From this point of view, I repeat the need to keep our guarantee system high, without giving anything in different directions. However, we must also be aware that issues relating to the security of countries, conflicts and terrorist activities also have more distant origins. They have motivations that derive from the injustices that exist in the world, inequalities and the lack of a true integration capacity that every country must know how to develop in order to maintain its internal situation free from destabilizing activities. The composition of interests between States and between human beings, recognizing the autonomy of history, culture, religion and total freedom, is a fundamental element in the protection of the security of each of us. I think these are the best answers, without neglecting, of course, a necessary and effective organization of force. Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that there must be a strong international commitment, first and foremost of Europe, to these issues and not only and, at the same time, Italy must have clear its most strategic objectives and perhaps increase its commitment from this point of view. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u26	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would like to make two brief remarks on behalf of the Left Ecology and Freedom and the Mixed Group in order to justify our strong vote against this text for some reasons which I will say and which I have already mentioned in part in the debate on our preliminary constitutionality. Of course, having put confidence in a subject like this has also introduced a further element of dissent. We have expressed, if I may use this term, a very harsh criticism of the idea that we should never discuss separately the various military missions in which our country is engaged. We have always asked for the opportunity to carry out more in-depth discussions, to be able to discuss them one by one, also because we have repeatedly carried out the discussion that these are very different military missions: one thing, to give an example, is that in Lebanon; another thing is that in Afghanistan, on which I will return shortly. However, this type of debate in the national Parliament is unfortunately impossible: it is as if the possibility of carrying out a systematic mission by mission was forbidden and it is as if the possibility of reasoning on a systematic budget of what the various military missions in which our country has participated in these years has meant. Yet it is a fairly widespread judgment that the NATO-led mission budget, in particular, which has been on this side for twenty years now, shows that they have certainly not solved the major geopolitical issues that have opened up in the world. On the contrary, the view is now quite widespread, even in the United States of America and not only on the European continent, that many of those missions have greatly increased instability in large sectors of the world and that even the birth of ISIS has been originated from completely wrong geopolitical choices, operated over the course of these years. Wrong geopolitical choices to the point of considering as possible unlikely interlocutors subjects that we then found in the ISIS files and as belonging to the black lists (and therefore dangerous terrorists to fight) movements such as the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), which in Kobane organized the resistance against ISIS and which today deserve a medal from the whole free world. In short, the world is really upside down, with completely wrong geopolitical choices and an approach, which unfortunately has also gone through the often non-existent European foreign policy, which has not made us grasp these fundamental data that were being developed. Not to mention the impossibility of discussing events separately, up to the paradox - let me say this - whereby the President-in-Office of the Council, who evidently considers this Senate too insignificant to express here certain elements of reflection, talks about the possibility of extending the mission to Afghanistan, which should have been over for some time, not in the national Parliament, as it would have been sacrosanct and as it should have been in a parliamentary democracy, but elsewhere. I think that the President-in-Office of the Council should come and explain to us why he said that the mission in Afghanistan, in his view, should be extended, given that it is a mission which, from our point of view, has produced enormous geopolitical, strategic and military errors over the years and has achieved a totally negative budget. However, I would remind you that the vast majority of the political forces that are sitting in Parliament today, when, two years ago, they applied for political elections, said these things a little hypocritically on the occasion of every initiative, and then removed them a few months later. I'll finish with a second consideration. In addition to the issue of missions, the so-called anti-terrorism rules have also been included in this text. As I said, we were already contesting that the missions cannot be discussed all together and that it would be necessary to carry out a systematic analysis and a budget one by one, and now this text is even extended to the rules concerning the so-called fight against international terrorism and security. Of course, these are very serious issues, and obviously the terrorist threat, in particular that of ISIS, requires very high attention, but I invite this Assembly to carry out a reflection: there has already been a historical phase in our country and recently in other countries where the issues of counter-terrorism and security have ended up meeting very strongly with the theme of respect for rights, guarantees and individual freedoms. These are issues of great seriousness, also because this country too often, in the past years, has been crossed by real emerging seasons, in which, as there was a threat and a danger, the level of individual freedoms, guarantees and rights was lowered. As you will understand, this is a matter of great concern. In this case too, I wonder how it is possible that Parliament did not consider it important to discuss separately a subject as large as this one, especially, Mr President, in a country in which even today - just to say one - there is no torture crime and in a country where - to say another - a police officer writes a delirious post Facebook, as happened last night on, claiming even what happened at Diaz school [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and Senator Vacciano]] We must be careful: our country is a country that - so to speak - goes through these elements of difficulty and in which, evidently, some elements of political culture, democracy and respect for the institutions, which should be acquired, have suffered difficulties over the years. Therefore our country is a country within which it is essential to have this kind of attention. We are therefore very convinced that we must put in place all forms of conflict, even the strongest and most severe, towards terrorist organisations, but let us say to Parliament: woe to confuse membership of a terrorist organization with - for example - the free expression of ideas and the right to imagine one path rather than another. These are very serious issues, which we believe would have deserved a different attitude and approach than those of an omnibus decree-law, on which the question of trust is also raised. This does not, in fact, inevitably allow us to do this kind of reflection to the full. Of course, for these reasons, we will not vote for confidence and express a very significant disagreement with the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u29	Mr Albertini (AP-NCD-UDC) Mr President, there is only one Trinitarian college here representing the Group, which is experiencing a kind of bilocation, as an assembly of our parliamentary group is taking place. We considered it necessary, important, more than appropriate to participate in today's debate, expressing the opinion of the Group, but we apologise to the House for the fact that, at the end of my speech, we will leave the work of the House, to resume those which are taking place elsewhere, which is significant for us. We therefore express a favourable opinion and we strongly trust the Government, both on the whole of its activity and its institutional profile, but also and above all on this measure: we do so for reasons of coherence and conviction, absolutely precise and punctual, on the various issues that characterize it. Consistency is what sees our country participating in an international scenario: it is bound to do so, but it does so with the conviction that it belongs to a community, which acts in defence of our civilization. The UN Security Council resolution of September last year requires and obliges Member States to deepen their fury and will to fight against the emergence of pervasive movements which extend their treacherous activities in various countries and places. There have been attacks in the centre of Europe, and even those affecting neighbouring Africa have caused deaths among our fellow countrymen. It is therefore a very disturbing scenario and this needs to be remedied, with a stronger intervention and a stronger and more decisive action. The intervention profiles are two and are a bit articulated in the multifunctional and multilateralist tradition of our country, in moving the garrison further away from the territorial borders of Italy, in the places and territories where situations of social distress, poverty, conflict between ethnic groups and fundamentalist magma emerge, which is often used to instill in the social groups of these countries the acefala protest towards the western world and its values. In fact, the extension of our international missions extends from Europe, where there are interventions by our armed and police forces in Georgia, Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania, Cyprus in the Mediterranean, Asia, with interventions in Afghanistan, Qatar, the Emirates and Bahrain, and Africa, especially in neighbouring Libya and considering the ongoing destabilisations, as well as in Mali, the Horn of Africa and the Central African Republic. In the measures that concern our profile of international action is not forgotten the mission antipiracy, but it has been opportunely signalled that, while allocating the funds, the effective participation of our Navy Naviglio military to this intervention is subordinate to an overall evaluation of what can be the development of the notable story that regards our two rifles of Marina. The international community, in our conflicting relationship with the Indian jurisdiction, still does not seem to have adequately evaluated the function that the two rifles were carrying out and the criminals who, where their actions were considered criminals, could have been applied to them. Interventions are also planned for refugees, to support their living conditions and the civil reconstruction of their countries, so the humanitarian profile is not forgotten. The whole of these activities to extend international activities and international missions collects a fund of over 240 million euros, therefore absolutely not negligible, almost half of which used to guard what is a bit the outbreak of these conflict scenarios, namely Afghanistan. In addition to this profile of external defense, that is, to move the borders beyond the territorial ones, there is the second aspect, the more specific one: the control of our territory, the modification of the criminal law, the anti-mafia code, the civil procedural code and also interventions in terms of the management of the forces, security and all the institutions of the administration of the State: power to the prefect, the quaestor, the Services, which are articulated in a very coherent and very appropriate way in order to make the fight against terrorism more incisive. I speak only for exemplifying and not exhaustive quotations, as is evident, but the extension of the functions of the Security Services, even to include investigative talks, even with the supervision of the judicial authority, is a fact of great importance and of specific interest for the purposes we aim at. The discipline of expulsions is also revised, which can be decided by administrative acts where there is suspicion that threatening interventions are being carried out on our territory in terms of the preparation of terrorist acts. And so it is the particular attention given to the surveillance of the web, with the possibility also to intervene with modern technical means remotely to know, understand and, if necessary, also forbid the diffusion, recruitment and action of propaganda that these forces hostile to our civilization are carrying out. I quickly come to the conclusion, also because I do not want to deprive the rest of our commitments of the contribution (modest in my case, but significant of my colleagues who are accompanying me) to reiterate that in this measure we find sufficient reasons for convincing him to approve it: the balance between the need for self-defence and security and the will to preserve, where compatible, this aim with the founding values of our juridical civilization, that is, the privacy and the practice of the inviolability of communications between people. I would like to emphasize with a veiled critical note a single point: the amalgamation of the functions of anti-terrorism and anti-mafia in a single authority may perhaps be motivated by the speeding up of an organizational measure that, also due to constraints of time-sharing of the intervention and the emergency caused by what we are profiling as an imminent threat, can also justify itself or better explain itself. From a structural point of view, however, the two arguments do not have the affinity, the appropriateness, those aspects of complementarity that could justify the meeting under a single national authority of these two profiles of contrast to crime. One thing is organised crime, especially with local traditions, even if it is expanded as a multinational crime worldwide, especially for purposes of economic enrichment and crime in a commodity sense, so to speak, and one account is, on the other hand, the specific aspects of international terrorism, especially what is emerging, which other competences, functions and organisations should involve. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u32	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement will not vote in favour of the government's confidence in the measure we are examining, but will vote against it for reasons of method and merit. First of all, with regard to the method, this is yet another heterogeneous decree-law: it contains indications of counter-terrorism, missions and international cooperation, so that at the same time three Commissions have been convened: justice, foreign affairs and defence, and in my opinion it would have been necessary to convene the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We have mixed non-urgent interventions related to missions (for which there is already a framework law framed in the House) with other supposedly urgent measures, dictated by the emotional wave resulting from the events in other countries such as France. When you do things like that, you always get bad results and that's the case. We did not have time to change the measure when it arrived in the Commission. We had practically one full day to modify it and of course it was already predetermined. There has been a waste of resources, means and human commitment on a measure that was already known would have been neither touchable nor voted on in any other way. The legislative offices have worked on amendments that have not even been taken into account. The Commission's offices had to order and print out amendments which were then unnecessary: thousands and thousands of documents were printed which were literally thrown away. [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u33	I beg your pardon, Senator Marton, but the microphone has broken and has to replace it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u34	AIROLA (M5S). They're right to take our voices off! What are we gonna talk about anyway? MARTON (M5S). You also practically prevent me from making an explanation of vote. Not bad! Then there was a farce vote in the three Commissions meeting: I see that they look at me badly, but in fact the vote took place in the absence of a quorum. Let me explain to you what happened: we were twenty-five precise. The senator who requested the verification of the quorum was counted for the purpose of reaching the quorum even if immediately after he left work. Therefore, the amendments from 6.7 onwards were voted on by only 24 senators and therefore in the absence of a quorum. I do not know if you can state that this is legal: it is the form, but not the substance. You tell me if this is a democratic behavior. In conclusion, as far as the method is concerned, you have put your trust. On a subject of such high interest to the nation, you put the question of trust; therefore, first of all, dismiss a branch of Parliament because it must continue the plan of the Prime Minister to show the Italians that a branch of Parliament does not serve and must be abolished, without prejudice to the fact that it will not be abolished but will be used to contain friends of friends: so it is a beautiful project, what is being pursued. Turning to the substance, new offences have been included in the penal code without taking into account the fact that they will have no deterrent effect in order to carry out the crime. I mean that we increase the penalties for those who make attacks, for those who plan them, but we do not consider that these are people who are willing to blow us up; that is, we tell these people, who are willing to fill themselves with explosives and go into the crowd and get exploded, that if they were caught, they would do three more years in prison. Nice cleanse, gentlemen, that's a wonderful thing! Moreover, it is not clear when the crime will be carried out. In the meantime it is said that the person who trains himself to complete an action that can be considered an attack will be punished; in addition, if he does so using telematic tools he will have a third of the extra penalty. There is therefore one question that I do not understand: where I was looking on the Internet for chemical instructions (so I'm talking about chemistry) about the assembly of mixtures that can be exploding, I would take a third more pain than if I bought a paper book. This is written. Moreover, if I go to buy that paper on the Internet, I wonder if I fall into the first or second case. If I'm then enrolled at an online university, what could my teacher be taking the penalty too? I am told no, because we do not know if the education will then be used to carry out the attack. What do we do, a preemptive arrest of intent? If I'm graduating in chemistry, because in the near future I can mix exploding substances, then they could arrest me and so the teacher can also be arrested. So I wonder if it's pure madness. Are we going to arrest the intentions? When does the crime occur? Where is the preventive act of this thing? I ask myself another question about the preventive act and I wonder if it is not better to use funds for men, technology and means. As there is talk of countering terrorism, the conflict requires that we try to prevent something from happening; instead, here we go to punish when the act has already happened. I therefore wonder where the budget act is located. From the point of view of prevention, we call for investment in technology and means for law enforcement. In Article 5-a, in this regard (this has comedian), it is stated that fuels and oils seized in the fulfillment of certain crimes can be used, giving them to the Fire Departments and to the Forces of the order that request it, except then say that, where action was taken by a seizure (so where an alleged crime had been committed and the seizure of fuels had taken place), such substances should be paid at the average market price. So let's pay what we could get by having money, because at this point I understand that we are simply using an excuse to kidnap fuels to be given to law enforcement, rather than turning to the market and paying them directly. These funds could also be used in investment in human resources. In this regard, there was a good statement by Mr Ferri, who said in the Commission that the Government will not give up the creation of new invitations to tender, because it does not intend to cross the lists. I therefore turn to all the people who are writing to us asking us to scroll through the lists to take the suitable, the winners and so on: know that Renzi will not scroll through the lists, because he wants to call new competitions to take from time to time the winners, then the best, and the youngest. So, make it up to you who write to us: you will never be hired because the government absolutely does not want to do it. Therefore, please write to the members of the Renzi Government and not to us because, dear gentlemen, we have tried in every way. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We would also like to see intelligence enhanced as a preventive measure. We set up intelligence funds. Here too, however, it must be understood whether the funds are adequate or not because if they are spent, as we are doing now, wasting resources, it is clear that intelligence will be an endless well. We call for intelligence to be strengthened together with parliamentary control. There must be a balance of powers. On the other hand, we do not understand why unanswered calls should be kept for 24 months. We don't understand this. On the discipline of arms it is useless to intervene, because my Divine colleague has already spoken about it. Who has had the enlightenment to ask for this legislation on weapons in which one does not understand who must communicate what? Five-shot or fifteen-shot loaders. If a person goes to the Sunday range to practice the sport of shooting, should he communicate electronically that he is going to the range with a number of shippers? Who do you think's gonna make an attack uses a legitimate weapon or goes to the black market to buy an unreported weapon? And then maybe he'll communicate possession of the weapon to the police station? And who will receive this report in the police station? That's crazy! I also wanted to speak on international missions, but Mr Santangelo has already mentioned this. In this respect, we would have liked the unnecessary funds allocated to military missions to be allocated to real cooperation missions. Finally, I answer to Senator Buemi, whom I don't see. In the various speeches, the system of guarantees, democracy and the need to prevent violent behavior with violence were mentioned. I would point out to Senator Buemi that he was one of the eight signatories to the complaint against the opposition, then to us of the 5 Star Movement, for attack on the constitutional bodies. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Democracy always applies only to others, never in here. Shame on you! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u37	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Forza Italia Group will obviously not vote for the Government for obvious political reasons which I will try to illustrate, partly related to the substance, although traditionally, coming to the very merits of the measure, our Group has never failed to support the action of our armed forces engaged in international missions. I want to reiterate that the no to the vote of confidence does not weaken the political support of Forza Italia to all our military engaged in the missions of peace and military. The government has, however, misplaced the issue of trust, because I believe there were about 200 amendments. I understand that the Undersecretary and the Deputy Minister present in this Chamber do not have the authority to express themselves on this matter (I say this not because he does not want to respect them), but I think that we could have a day and a half of discussion on important issues. I will explain some of the points raised by us as well. We, as a group, had tabled - I think - six amendments and therefore, frankly, we did not adopt a obstructive attitude. However, in front of the aut aut we have decided not to vote for trust. But we're with the armed forces. We're in favor of those missions. On the subject, this measure also presents other profiles. In fact, extending the powers of the anti-mafia prosecutor, it also makes it an anti-terrorist prosecutor. The measure has therefore been examined not only by the Defence Commission, as is tradition in the renewal of missions, but also by the Foreign Affairs Commissions, always competent, and justice. (11 a.m.) (Gasparri followed). Members of the Committee on Justice and in particular Senator Palma, when he spoke on the substance of the decree-law in the Commission, expressed some doubts about that part. We want to combat terrorism and our political side has taken effective, useful and striking initiatives against it over time, but we believe that there are some aspects to be clarified. Now we have given this anti-terrorism competence to the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor: we hope that this will solve some emergencies and not just be an emblem, tag or label flag. There is another problem, in this decree-law: we entrust the Services with the possibility of conducting investigative interviews in prisons. We know that even in prison, where we have about 50 percent of foreign prisoners, cells of jihadist terrorism are formed, preaches are fed and even those fighters who are then sent to the countries of the Middle East, Asia and Africa to fight in the name of fundamentalism can be enlisted. These investigative talks can therefore also be an effective measure, but since you do not allow us to discuss the amendments, having raised your question of trust, Lords of the Government, we complain about a political problem, which I want to put to the Assembly, although distracted: the Group that I represent and for which I speak today, Forza Italia, is not present in the parliamentary committee for monitoring the Services, the COPASIR (Parliamentary Committee for the Security of the Republic), set up at the beginning of the parliamentary term. The developments of the legislatures are such that, since there is no mandate, parliamentarians can make different choices (and I take note of this without wishing to judge them): today Forza Italia is not present at COPASIR and cannot carry out the control action in the place where it can be verified that all this happens in compliance with the fundamental principles of the Constitution and democracy, especially when examining a decree-law extending the competences and powers of the security services. If we then make some criticism to him or to other actions of the Security Services, the State Secretary - Delegated Authority for the security of the Republic is offended. I say this in the House: have our secret services and the political authorities in charge taken care of our Maròs? [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]] Have there been missions of this nature? I say this here because we are not in COPASIR and I inform this House that, by not being a member of it, until we are there, we will use the House itself to talk about the action of the Delegated Services and Political Authorities. I would like to thank the Presidents of the Chamber and Senate who have promoted a meeting of the Heads of Group and Vice-Presidents of the Chamber and Senate on Monday to examine the matter: if it is not resolved in the coming weeks, I will go first to the meetings of the COPASIR and they will have to kick me out, because this abuse harms the fundamental democratic principles of control and transparency. Or maybe someone doesn't want us at COPASIR, because they're afraid of some transparency? A number of amendments had been tabled to this measure aimed at widening the number of members of the COPASIR from 10 to 12: it was not possible to discuss this because of the imposition of the question of trust. Do you trust them because you do not want transparency in the control of the secret services? I do not see Senator Marco Minniti here, Undersecretary of State - Delegated Authority for the security of the Republic, but there is President Latorre who is well aware of this problem. This has to end, ladies and gentlemen, otherwise we will stop the activity of COPASIR, in a peaceful, democratic and civil way, going to sit down when there are meetings. They will take us by weight and turn us away: we have no violent intention, but certainly to defend rights. [[Senator Morra's comments.]] Yeah, they're gonna report us: look, don't worry if we're afraid of what you're saying! We will therefore claim our right and I also say this to the Minister of Defence, who, as we know, has been exonerated from the affair of the Maròs, because other government authorities, without any transparency and without reporting to the parliamentary bodies, carry out some actions: perhaps they were useful, because our rifles of Marina remain in a condition of subjection, one kidnapped in India, the other who, in very precarious health conditions, must obtain extensions in order to remain in Italy to cure himself. Let us see then that in this measure, for example, there are measures for the re-employment of the armed forces in the streets: you have not allowed us to discuss, however, our amendments for the sliding of the rankings of young people waiting to be hired in the police forces and to recover the turnover block. Thanks to the initiatives of Forza Italia, the turnover - the replacement of policemen, policemen and anything else that retire - has been brought back to 55%, but we want it to return to 100%: it is good to know that today, with the question of trust, the government of Matteo Renzi has prevented the discussion of amendments aimed at restoring the staff of the police forces. With this truncated debate, our citizens are thus prevented from being more protected. We welcome the fact that a few soldiers have come to the streets, as we did in time with the central right governments and the left copy, but we believe that more could have been done, with our amendments on COPASIR and police officers, about turn-over and more. With regard to the issue of the Maroons, to which I have already referred, we have asked and obtained from the House for limits to the anti-piracy missions. Those missions are useful, because they protect international trade, but they cannot take place under the conditions that led to the epilogue of the story of our maròs. And we think the government's action is insufficient. Renzi only sent tweets saying that he would solve the issue of maròs, but he did nothing and is humiliating Italy by the so-called Indian authorities. How long will we have to endure this state of humiliation, with the competent ministers, with foreign and defence ministers, who have been expelled and other authorities who, without being accountable to Parliament, do not understand what they are doing? We must bring that matter to international fora, demand respect for Italy. Let the matter be judged with arbitration by competent bodies, but let there be no more this humiliation of our military. I shall conclude the explanation of vote by referring to current events. It is true that this measure does not relate to immigration issues, but we commit many soldiers to our missions around the world. And we're in solidarity with those soldiers and those missions. At present, however, our Armed Forces have a task in the Mediterranean that I would not know how to define. I invite you to read the "Corriere della sera" today, on page 11, or "La Stampa" today, on page 2. Yesterday there were shootings in the Mediterranean. And what do our military do? They are also humiliated there, forced by government directives to do the portering and transport of illegals when, instead, others shoot. Even yesterday there were Libyan boats that fired to take back the boats with which the illegals had been put into the sea. The illegals climb on Italian military ships, after which the Libyans shoot to recover the boat. That's because, since the boats are finishing, it's necessary to retrieve them to do other missions. On page 2 of "La Stampa" today there are statements from some people, from various countries of Africa, who I do not know if they are true or not. They say that they were in Libya in prison and that they did not ask to go to Sicily. They were taken from these prisons, put on the boats and so they ended up in Sicily! And our military must be forced by the government's directives, Minister Pinotti, to transport illegals to Italy, encouraging these ugly businesses! And the fact that there are deaths is the fault of the laxist policy of our Government and the European Union. The dead have increased for this! In the first months of 2015, compared to the same period of 2014, deaths increased 30 times. The source of this is the United Nations Agency for Refugees. This surrendering policy has led, by encouraging these transports, to an exorbitant number of victims and deaths. It is not a humanitarian policy, but a murderous policy, and that must be defined! Since this decree speaks of the use in the world of our armed forces, that in the Mediterranean is not a mission of international peace, but a daily action that should be resolved in another way. A few weeks ago some United Nations authorities, but also Senator Casini, who presides over the Senate's Foreign Commission, in an interview with "The Messenger," said that a naval blockade was needed. This should be done by our military in the Mediterranean. I am quoting UN sources and President Casini to explain that this is not a xenophobic, warrior or warrior policy, but it is a way to avoid the invasion of thousands of people. And I tell Senator Quagliariello that the Minister of the Interior, instead of announcing requisitions of Italian houses for illegal immigrants, should guarantee the security of Italian families at our borders. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups]] The military do the military with honor and pride, as they do on peace missions. The vote of confidence does not allow us to renew with one vote, because we must vote firmly no, that confidence and solidarity that I want to reiterate at the end of my speech. However, the armed forces, and also the Coast Guard, are not mortified by absurd directives. And remember that this political part is the one that, with realpolitik, made a better foreign policy. A few weeks ago Minister Gentiloni said that sometimes in Africa we need to talk to dictators. But it was you who mocked the governments led by Berlusconi when, speaking with Gaddafi, it blocked the transit of illegal immigrants into the Mediterranean, imposing greater respect for our country and our security. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups]] Now Minister Gentiloni wants to talk to the dictators because the realpolitik - alas - forces this. But some of them have been killed by leaving the place of the bad Gaddafi to the even worse caliphate. As you can see, therefore, the issues related to security issues, the fight against terrorism and international missions - I conclude, Madam President, and thank you for your patience - lead us to renew confidence and esteem for our military, but convinced disregard for the Government and, therefore, a strong and determined negative vote. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u40	ZANDA (PD). Madam President, soon the Senators of the Democratic Party will be voting for a measure which contains very important rules; rules not only for extending our international peace missions but also for combating terrorism; standards which, among other things, affect training activities, recruitment, the use of false documents and the treatment of explosive substances. The content has already been extensively explained in this House, both in general discussion and in many of the explanations of vote that preceded me. It has been noted by some speeches this morning that it would have been better to do more. This is always possible, especially when matters are so complex; but there is very little to discuss about the usefulness and effectiveness of preventive rules against terrorism. On the basis of our laws, from the end of December to today, 32 people have been removed from national territory to protect the security of the state. I hope that this sensitivity will soon lead to a positive vote by the Senate. I also tell the Senators of Forza Italia, after listening to Senator Gasparri. In fact, for their political culture and for the opinions they have always expressed - as Senator Gasparri said just now - I believe that for them not to vote on military missions and anti-terrorism rules is wrong. It's wrong, Senator Gasparri, even having good reasons for the Copasir seat issue. When it comes to military missions of peace and anti-terrorism rules you have never voted against and I am sorry that you do so today. On the other hand, in terms of international legality, the decree finds its foundation in our Constitution and also in the indications of the UN Charter, which reads - I quote - on the threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts and calls for the intervention of the international community. The decree is also confirmed in the latest Security Council Resolution of September 2014. I make this call to the United Nations in a non-formal way, because it is a sign of the international community's alarm at a threat of so violent criminal terror, which operates on so many fronts as to make a strategic response as global and of corresponding force necessary. That is the point of the measure that we are about to adopt. Italy is an important component of the fight against terrorism and, moreover, is exposed itself to the risk of attacks. For us, the choice to introduce essential regulatory instruments in order to make law enforcement actions effective corresponds both to the duty to defend our citizens and to the political and operational commitments that bind us to countries attacked by violence. The analysis of the facts tells us that the fight against international terrorism will still be long and will have to commit, in addition to national legislation, also political, diplomatic, intelligence and financial military initiatives, first of all of the international anti-ISIS coalition, to which Italy has joined together with 40 other countries. We have learned the name of terror organizations of unheard of cruelty such as ISIS, like Al Qaeda, like Boko Haram and like al-Shabab, and we know that the states where terrorism operates are increasingly numerous: from Syria to Iraq, from Afghanistan to Somalia, from Mali to Libya from Tunisia to Pakistan, from the Philippines to Indonesia. In Iraq, ISIS has even become a state, a state that is explicitly based on terrorism, that practices it as its own rule of life and spreads it around the world. A terrorism without borders: the bombers of the Bardo Museum had been trained in Libya, the massacrers of the 150 Christian students in Kenya came from Somalia. The West is also the subject of direct attacks, we saw it in Ottawa, Brussels, Sidney, Paris and Copenhagen, and the terror network can count on the enlistment of thousands of European citizens and immigrants who, after finishing the fights on the front line, return home and become a permanent danger to their countries of origin. This huge leap in the quality of terrorist power stations is made possible by the massive financial resources at their disposal and by the ease with which weapons are purchased even of very high power. Nor can we exclude that, in whole or in part, can be used to support terrorism the very important gains from the exploitation of prostitution and the same enslavement of hundreds of thousands of women and children. We have no definite information on the link between terrorist organisations and the continuous growth of human trafficking towards the Italian coasts, but one thing is certain: the ways in which thousands and thousands of desperate people are driven to die at sea without interruption correspond to the usual ruthlessness of those criminal gangs. Senator Centinario, human trafficking from North Africa to Italy is fought with more Europe and not occupying hotels for electoral interests. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the LN-Aut Group.]] Romano Prodi is right when he says that control of financial flows is the premise of any policy of containment of international terrorism, but closing the faucets of terrorism and drying off its roots is not easy. From 2007 to today, the only kidnappings in person have allowed ISIS and Al Qaeda to collect 98 million euros, and that is a lot of money, just as there are many 450 million dollars and gold bars made by ISIS from the looting of the National Bank of Mosul. Then there is the very dangerous game of oil. Today ISIS can only access the least rich part of Iraqi oil, the northern one, where, among other things, the major deposits are under the control of the regular army, while 80% of Iraqi production and reserves are located in the South, in areas with a Shiite majority, impregnable, therefore the Iraqi oil turnover of ISIS should be some ten million dollars a year. The situation in Libya is very different: the economic and military consequences of possible terrorist control of oil and gas sources would be devastating. Libya's political and social chaos make it the most dangerous area for Italy and Europe. In the unfortunate hypothesis that ISIS was able to control Libyan energy sources, even in only a percentage between 10% and 20% of production, and even if it was forced to sell oil at very discounted prices, its revenues would not be less than billion dollars a year. No wonder, given that, before the crisis, in Libya, about 50 billion were obtained every year from oil and gas and that even after the collapse due to the instability of the country in 2014 revenues were about 20 billion. I would like to add another comment on Libya. Minister Pinotti, speaking to the House, referred to the ongoing air combat between the parties in struggle. I just remember to underline the risks that would come to Italy, which is less than an hour's flight from the Libyan coast, from a possible control of Libyan air vehicles by ISIS. This notation can be useful to better focus our parliamentary debates on the F-35. The decree-law that we are converting has in its epigraph the expression "contrast of terrorism." This is his object, but, once again, the most precise definition of the violence of our time is that of Pope Francis, who called it "a new world war in pieces" and unfortunately so. What else is it but a real war on the global offensive of the armies of terror with their weapons, their state, their techniques of aggression, their mobility, their proselytism, their camouflage capacity, their media defiance? Politics has many things to learn from Pope Francis, one of the main ones comes from his clear speech. After doing so on terrorism, after denouncing the sins and weaknesses of the church, after condemning the mobsters, the corrupt and tax evaders, the Pope spoke clearly about the Armenian massacre and spoke of genocide. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE)]] I have great respect for the Turkish nation, great consideration for the feelings of its population and for its ancient culture. I also supported the prospect of his entry into Europe, but my personal thought is that on the tragedy of the Armenian people the Pope simply remembered history. Italy has experienced the nightmare of internal terrorism and knows how difficult it is to face international terrorism with the rules of the rule of law and republican legality. It's hard, but we can't abdicate. If we did so and if we did not remain faithful to the rule of law we would lose ourselves and also the war on terror. In the 1970s and 1980s, so much innocent blood was shed and the stability of the constitutional order of the Republic was endangered. Even then terrorism had many international references. I only remember the RAF in Germany, the IRA in Britain, the ETA of Basque self-nomism in Spain. Even then, we were wondering about international funding and arms supply channels. Compared to the current Islamic fundamentalist terrorism, the violence of the 1970s operated on a different, smaller scale, with very different political objectives. But, then, Italy won its battle thanks to the sense of responsibility of the political forces of majority and opposition. The national unity, which politically distant forces knew how to achieve in the fight against terrorism, was the strong response that allowed the Republic to beat the exversion and defend democracy. We have opportunities that we need to seize. The development of relations between the United States and Iran and Cuba is an important and positive step towards relaxation and peace. They are made of enormous geopolitical importance. This is the spirit that Italy needs today, if it wants its response to terror to be effective. We can divide and clash in Parliament in many ways and on many issues, but we cannot do so on terrorism. I remember with much respect to the Senators of Forza Italia, the Northern League, the 5 Star Movement, SEL and many Senators of the Mixed Group and GAL who today, as in the seventies, the password against terrorism must be "unity." Unity of the international community, but also of the political and democratic forces of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u41	Before moving to the vote, we welcome the students of the Technical Institute of Commerce and for geometers "Golden Medal City of Cassino" Cassino, in the province of Frosinone. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u42	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 1854, of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 7 of 18 February 2015, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I warn my colleagues, in order to avoid misunderstandings and before extracting the name from which the appeal will begin, that the Presidency will give priority to voting to some colleagues, with the following criteria: colleagues engaged in the Copasir, those who must go to the funerals of the victims of the events in Milan and who must therefore leave and three personal cases, which the Presidency considered worthy of attention. The senators will therefore vote first: Casson, Cirinna, Cociancich, Crimes, De Biasi, Caliendo, Della Vedova, Esposito Giuseppe, Lo Moro, Marton, Pizzetti, Schifani and Stucchi. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. PEGORER, secretary, makes the appeal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Fravezzi is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Fravezzi. PEGORER, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, they take over the Presidency - 11.30 a.m. - and again - 11:33 a.m. -). The senators answered: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Augello, Azzollini Battista, Berger, Bertuzzi, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Bori, Boglia, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biaara Elena, Filippino, Di Giorgi, Dirindi, D'Onghia Esposito Giuseppe, Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Fattorini, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippi, Filippi, Filippi, Finfindi, Finghi Fisorini, Forghi Giuseppo, Fassiolo The senators: Airola, Alicata, Amidei, Amorus, Aracri, Auricchi Barani, Barozzi, Barozzi, Bellot, Bencini, Bernini, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Bignami, Bisinella, Blund, Boc, Bocca, Bocchino, Bonfrisco, Bottici, Bruni, Bruno, Bucco, Brac, Bertacco, Bertorotta, Bignami, Bisinella, Blund, Bocca, Bocchini, Bonfrisco, Botti, Bruni, Bruno, Bucco, Bucarella, Bulgarelli Caliendo, Bell Bell, Chappellett, Cardiello, Carraro, Casale, Casaletto, Castaletto, Castaladi, Catalfo, Ceroni, Cervellini, Ciampolilli, Cotti D'Ambrosio Lettieri, D'Ambrosio, D'Ambrosio, D'Ambrosio, D'Ambrosio, D'Ambrosio, D'Ambros, D'Ambrosio, D'Ambrosio, D'Ambros, D'Am, D'Am, D'Ambros, D'Ambros, D'Am, D'Ab, D'Am, D'Am, D'Ambros, Catampoli, Catampoli, Catampoli, Catampoli, Catampoli, Catampoli, Cat, Cat, Catampoli, Cat, Luca, Luca, Read, Cat, Cat, Cat, Cat, Let, Let, Read, Read, Lumpoli, Lumpoli, Read, Read, Lumpoli, Lumpoli, Read, Lumpoli, Read, Read, Read, Read, Let, Let, Let, Let, Let, Let, Let, Let, Let, Let, Let, Read, Let, Let, Lumpoli, Let, Let, Let, Let, Let, Lumpoli, Read, Read, Read, Read, Read, Read, Read, Read, Read, Read, Read, Read, Read, Read, Read, Read, Read, Read, Read, Read, Read, Read, Read, Senators abstain: Conti. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 1854, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 7 of 18 February 2015, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 271 Senators voting 270 Majority 136 Favorables 161 Contrars 108 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 7 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u43	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1791, already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u46	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we are talking about an extremely important measure, especially at a time when there is such a serious terrorist threat. The aim of the bill is to strengthen all measures to prevent and combat nuclear smuggling and attacks on nuclear installations and storage sites. Keep in mind that many of the materials, which can be considered non-lethal, can actually be used for definitely deadly purposes. Given the importance of the amendments tabled to the Convention on the physical protection of nuclear materials, which were adopted in Vienna on 8 July 2005, they are astonishing the time to adopt this bill today. We, as a Group of the North League, in this sense can only share the whole measure, even if we have a certain apprehension for a prospect of theft of radioactive materials by people who, when acting in the field above all of terrorism, have no scruples and no respect for our lives. As far as the penalties provided for in this measure are concerned, we believe that these sanctions are too light in relation to the potential lethality of these crimes and the interests at stake. We will therefore vote in favour of the measure, but with an invitation to the Government and, in particular, the Ministry of the Interior, to evaluate the whole plan of prevention. Given the danger of these issues - we are no longer in the years Eighty when one thought of the great nuclear war, but we are at a time when terrorism is truly ruthless and devious - one wonders what could happen if someone had this kind of material in his hand. We say that we need resources, enormous and additional, that must be made available to all the Forces of Order in order to fully rethink, not only the sanctioning apparatus, as is being done, but an integral policy of managing this type of problem, making available to the Forces of Order all human and material resources in order to be able to carry out their work and actually get to protect all of us. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u47	Colleagues, before proceeding to the final vote, the Presidency notes that Senator Luigi Marino voted favourably in previous votes on Articles 9 and 10. We shall therefore proceed to the final vote. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u48	Pursuant to Rule 56 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I have the reverse of the agenda, in the sense of moving to the examination of ratifications of international agreements.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u49	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1335. The rapporteur, Senator Corsini, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u50	Madam President, I am faced with a crossroads and I have two options: I can carry out the report, which, however, is a fairly complex measure, will take a few minutes or hand it over to the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u53	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, this measure, on which I will speak in an explanation of vote, is the ratification of a particularly sensitive agreement. I would therefore ask, if the House agrees, to have this report carried out because we are talking about EUR 19 billion. It is not a trifle, it is not a formal act as often as ratifications are, and it seems to me that this House would benefit greatly from listening to this report. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In any case, the report may be annexed to the acts. Senator Corsini, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u54	I intend to do so, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us is the ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union, its Member States and the Republic of South Korea. The agreement, in line with the principles of the World Trade Organisation, provides for the creation of a free trade area between the European Union, its Member States and the Republic of Korea, to be achieved through the removal of almost all tariff and non-tariff barriers between economic areas, the adaptation of standards and the regulation of important strategic sectors such as pharmaceuticals, motor vehicles and consumer electronics. The Agreement also aims to reopen their markets in the services and investment sectors, to establish a commitment of the parties to the protection of intellectual property, to the opening of the public procurement market, competition policy and state aid. Subscribed in October 2010, after a long negotiation, the Agreement has already entered into force provisionally in July 2011 for areas of exclusive Community competence: it consists of 15 heads, each divided into articles, and three protocols, dedicated to the definition of originating products, administrative cooperation and cultural cooperation, as well as numerous annexes relating to each chapter. Having indicated the general objectives in Chapter I, the Agreement provides in Chapter II for the gradual and reciprocal liberalization of trade, according to differentiated timetables, depending on the different categories of goods. Generally speaking, almost 99% of customs duties on industrial and agricultural goods are to be abolished, with the exception of a limited number of agricultural products, such as rice. However, the Agreement allows the parties to make use of bilateral safeguard measures pro tempore, and by accepting forms of compensation, if the abolition of a duty causes or threatens to cause serious injury to the national industry (Chapter III). Specific rules are also laid down to reduce technical barriers in the fields of electronics, pharmaceuticals and medical devices. With regard to the car sector, Korea seeks to adapt to international safety and environmental standards (Chapter IV). Chapter V is devoted to cooperation in the field of health and plant health. Chapter VI focuses on the customs procedure and the facilitation of trade by providing for a general simplification of the procedures for customs clearance of goods, simplification of procedures and cooperation in the field of security. The subsequent chapters are devoted to the liberalisation of trade in services and electronic commerce (Chapter VII), payments and capital movements (Chapter VIII) and public procurement (Chapter IX). With regard to the matter of intellectual property, Chapter X extends the protection of intellectual property rights also to the commercial sector, including in the protection of copyright, trademarks, geographical indications, designs, models and patents (aspects, these, of particular interest to our country). The subsequent heads have in terms of competition and transparency, establishing a commitment for the parties to the application of rules that avoid the use of unfair commercial practices and reinforced horizontal obligations in the field of regulatory transparency in the field of trade and investment. Particular attention is also paid to the social and environmental dimension of development, with the provision of monitoring mechanisms entrusted to civil society and the mutual commitment of the parties to facilitate and promote trade in goods contributing to sustainable development, including attention to issues of corporate social responsibility and fair trade. The Agreement also provides that disputes relating to the interpretation and application of the text shall be resolved either through consultations or through the establishment of an arbitration panel, whereas Chapter XV lays down final provisions on the language versions, the territorial scope of application and the entry into force of the Agreement. With regard to protocols, without entering into excessively analytical technical aspects, it is noted that the Protocol on the definition of originating products and methods of legislative cooperation provides that authorised exporters may issue declarations of origin, in relation to invoices, delivery notes or any other commercial document, describing the products exported in sufficient detail to enable them to be identified. The same Protocol, by way of derogation from the standard provision of the duty drawback ban included in the free trade agreements generally concluded by the European Union, provides for a clause allowing - even with the limit of the review of the procedure after five years - the possibility for Korean companies to obtain reimbursement by the Government of Seoul of the duties paid on components imported from third countries. The other two protocols to the Agreement are devoted respectively to mutual administrative assistance in the customs field and to strengthening cultural cooperation. The draft law of ratification and execution also consists of four articles concerning the authorization to ratify, the order of execution, the financial coverage of the related charges (which can be estimated at around 24,000 euros), with effect from 2015, and the entry into force of the text. The analysis of the compatibility of the intervention does not indicate any constitutional problems or conflicts with Community law. The Agreement is also fully incompatible with our country's international obligations and is perfectly in line with the principles of the World Trade Organisation. In conclusion, it is proposed that the Assembly approve this measure. [[Applause from Senators Sollo and Chiti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u55	As you are not included in the general discussion, and as the rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles of the draft law in the text proposed by the Commission. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. SIBILIA (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. SIBILIA (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. SIBILIA (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. SIBILIA (FI-PdL XVII). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u58	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we in the Lega Nord Group will not vote in favour of this agreement, because we have considered that some of the profiles contained in the Convention cannot be shared. We believe that, to some extent, although the issue of free competition would suggest a favourable vote on this Agreement, there is in fact no real rule that can be applied internationally. We believe that the type of taxation applied on the exchange of goods can also be decisive for the choice and definition of the final price. These are the reasons why the Lega Nord Group will not vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u61	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, this agreement constitutes, by number of areas affected and overall economic value, the largest free trade agreement ever negotiated by the European Union with a third country. The turnover is estimated to be 19 billion. This agreement intervenes, as the rapporteur has explained, which I thank, on an infinite quantity of fields of goods and legislation regarding duties and protection of goods, as well as on the characteristics of information regarding goods, which are numerous. I would like to point out to you that we have several annexes with hundreds or perhaps thousands of indications of goods which are of interest to many Commissions. In light of this, we believe that it would have been more appropriate to evaluate carefully, and in detail, what Europe is going to negotiate, even on our behalf, with a third country for such a large volume of business, especially to protect some excellence and quality of Italian production and the Italian market. This approach recalls somewhat the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Treaty (TTIP), or in any case the arrangements used to approve TTIP. In fact, in this regard, if you ask my colleagues who are in Brussels, you will know that they have a reading room, that is, a room where the documents are contained, where you have access to private phones and any pencil or sheet of paper to write notes. We find this absurd, because it is a very important contract. Now I do not want to mislead the speech, but in the method we do not trust how the European Union treats the interests of our country. We do not trust the document in our examination that will clearly indicate that the marks will be protected: Italy has protected its commercially relevant geographical indications such as Parma ham. But I find the "Parmigianische italienische" everywhere, without protection, or cheeses that do not have the slightest protection in Europe. Therefore, I do not trust a negotiation on our trademarks made by Europe, because it does not seem to me to adequately protect our excellences, and perhaps also because of the current Government or the previous one. We are also adversely concerned about the fact that this Treaty ratifies agreements in an unbalanced way, which go mainly in the direction of trade in electronic, automotive and pharmaceutical products. If you type the words "South Korea," "production" on the Internet, discover that in these areas South Korea is very strong, Hyundai is very strong and produces cars. In the electronic field we mention Samsung and LG. Anyone who has at home or at least knows someone who owns a Samsung TV set. Therefore, our greatest fear is that this Agreement will strongly unbalance Italian capacity and excellence, facilitating an invasion of products that is already in place. Let us not talk about the fact that we are signing this Agreement with a country that has not yet ratified several UN conventions and international commitments on labour rights, human rights and the environment. It is true: the Agreement generally says - at least from what we understand - that it should serve precisely to protect this imbalance, but we, again, fear the facilitation of the relocation of productions that could currently be done in Europe or Italy in favour of Asian markets. There could be many other considerations - for example - on the part of the Agreement on the subject of procurement, which leaves us doubtful because we have not dealt with it on the substance. We are simply ratifying a list of actions and, although we are told that they are in the interest of improving trade, given the previous facts, we doubt that they are entirely in favour of our country. Therefore, for this reason, the 5 Star Movement will vote firmly against this bill of law ratifying this Trade Agreement, hoping that Italy will finally assert its reasons on these issues, especially in Europe, since the latter negotiates on these matters and does it a little secretly, in the shadows, in the dark. I repeat, therefore, that, having seen and considered the precedents, the 5 Star Movement will strongly oppose it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u64	AMORUSO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I very quickly voted in favour of this draft ratification law by the Forza Italia Group. Among other things, as we have all heard, this agreement is already partially in force on a provisional basis, because it has been done by the European Union. And, therefore, it is only a matter of ratification and execution. We must consider an important fact: today Korea is a rapidly expanding economic reality, it is a market of great importance also for Italian agri-food products. If anything, in addition to the areas of Community competence, we will have to look at some sectors which have been excluded and which, therefore, must be re-introduced in this type of intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u67	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u68	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u69	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1625, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Zin, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us, already approved by the House of Deputies, involves the ratification and execution of an Agreement between Italy and Argentina, signed in 2003 and perfected in 2012, which allows working activities to be carried out for family members living with diplomatic and consular staff, as well as delegations to international organisations and the Holy See. The aim of the text is to satisfy the need to strengthen diplomatic relations between Italy and Argentina, facilitating the working activities of the family members of diplomatic, consular and technical-administrative personnel of diplomatic and consular missions present in their respective territories, in the awareness of the importance of the effective contribution that such persons can contribute to achieve from the economic, social and psychological point of view, without thereby weakening the institutional role that they are called to play as family members of the accredited staff. The bilateral arrangement consists of seven articles. Article 1 defines the scope and scope of the Agreement, extending the possibility of carrying out work also to the family members of the representations accredited to the Holy See. In particular, the categories of relatives to whom the agreement applies are first and foremost unmarried spouses, unmarried children aged 18 to 26 and unmarried children suffering from physical or mental disability. Subsequent Articles 2 and 3 of the understanding define the authorisation procedures, in Italy and Argentina, in similar ways, while Articles 4, 5 and 6 lay down the applicability of local tax, social security and labour legislation and the non-applicability of civil, administrative or criminal immunity with regard to any act relating to the exercise of the activity and the limits placed on the authorization authority. Finally, Article 7 regulates the entry into force, duration and possibility of termination of the Agreement in question. The draft law ratifying the Agreement in question consists of three articles which provide respectively for the authorization to ratify, the order of execution and the entry into force of the Agreement in question. The technical report attached to the draft law states that the application of the measure does not result in charges or lower revenue to the State budget. The Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, Community law or other international obligations entered into by our country. It is therefore proposed that the House approve it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u71	As you are not included in the general discussion, and as the rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to speak, we shall proceed to the examination of the articles. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. GAETTI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u74	LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I only take the floor to announce my Group's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u77	GAETTI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u78	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The remaining draft laws ratifying international agreements on the agenda will be discussed at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-04-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-430.ana.u79	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.49 p.m.
