ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 19 March.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u4	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes after checking the quorum. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 11:09 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: On 20 March 2015, Mr President, I inform you that the President of the Republic, with his own decree adopted today on my proposal, has accepted the resignations resigned by the President of the Republic. Dr. Mr Maurizio LUPI from the post of Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. By the same decree, the President of the Republic gave me the task of managing the aforementioned Dicastery as an interim measure. F.to Matteo Renzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u9	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1813 already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u10	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the first instinct this morning, being the first to speak, would be not to intervene in the debate on this decree-law, because we have now understood, after a long period of attempts to work in a concrete and important way for our country, that the opposition does not matter. This applies not only to the opposition, but to Parliament itself, because the Government always uses the usual means of achieving its objectives, such as the urgent decrees and trust, which, if I am not mistaken, was already announced as possible by the rapporteur last week. But, out of respect for the citizens who, however, elected us and gave us the burden of representing them, I think it is right to express the positions that the North League has on this measure and the strong criticisms it is making about this. We have made a preliminary reference to constitutionality, because, in our opinion, the repeated use of the decree of urgency, when the urgency is not there, is a modus operandi that we absolutely cannot share anymore and that cannot share this Parliament, which has been deprived of its functions. [[Brusio.]] Mr. President, I can't even hear my voice. I would therefore ask for some silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u11	Colleagues, I have already mentioned at another sitting that the general debate does not mean that everyone speaks. We talk one at a time. I would therefore ask you to allow Senator Bellot to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u12	Let's try it. I was talking about the repeated use of the instrument of the urgent decree, to which, as we all know, there have been many appeals from the Head of State. [[Brusio.]] I refuse to speak at this point, believe me.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u13	Colleagues, please have some silence. Senator Bellot, continue. The Presidency does everything it can; you too conquer the audience.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u14	BELLOT (LN-Aut). Mr President, you do not notice and you do not feel the pulse in this House. Let's keep going. The Constitutional Court itself, with several judgments, also stated that the use of this instrument was wrong. But this is certainly motivated by a clear lack of a cohesive majority and therefore by the obligation to use these instruments, obviously combined with the instrument of trust, which is now under the control of this Parliament, which has been deprived of its functions. Going to what is at the heart of the provision, we can only say that the decree of urgency is also diminished by the eighteen months foreseen for the application of the norms contained in it; this represents a further confirmation of how urgency is not at all one of the important points of the decree-law. In addition, there is a lack of consistency in the matter, as there is an article concerning the transformation of popular banks and which has become the heart of the measure, while there are other rules concerning possible or possible aid to small and medium-sized enterprises, which have passed in second order. Let us return to the arguments that concerned the desire to create a justification for this reform, namely the need to standardise our banking system with that of other countries in the euro area, as well as of course an alleged instability of the popular banks. This must absolutely be rejected. It is clear that popular banks clearly meet the standards imposed by the European Community. The stress tests carried out at European level for popular banks were optimal, giving clearly better responses than other banks, which have a structure of joint stock companies. We could certainly uncover Pandora's box, through stress tests that have seen situations such as those of Monte dei Paschi di Siena or Carige, which certainly did not have the same solidity and substance and the same ability to manage the credit and income of the territories (the popular banks in fact attach themselves to the territory). So this is also an excuse that absolutely cannot be considered and that automatically falls. All the more so because the popular banks have not even had the State aid that, for example, the public limited companies have received through the use of minibonds: let's think, for example, returning to the case mentioned above, to the rescue of MPS. We can therefore safely find weak points on the reasons contained in the decree-laws that are based on excuses that can be immediately disassembled and deflated. Popular banks, a reality that is 150 years old, in other European countries such as Germany, which does not have an economy like ours, but much more prosperous and stable, are considered a supporting and fundamental fabric, because they provide credit to businesses and families. The popular banks therefore have a link with the territory and, beyond the fact that they are not dominant authorities, have clear and strong social aims that are recognized to them. This is demonstrated by the numbers: from 5% to 8% of the profits of popular banks are used for social purposes and in these years of crisis they have strongly replaced another banking world and the lack of measures by the Government. We absolutely do not agree with this attack and do not agree with the threshold set at 8 billion assets of the popular banks which goes against all European logic. It would have been preferable to use other criteria, for example to raise the threshold to 30 billion, as the ECB asks us and as the European system imposes on us. On the other hand, there has been a very tough move to attack the popular banks; later, it will be the turn of the credit cooperative banks and we will come to ensure that these banks, becoming joint stock companies, will have a very strong interference of foreign capital; in this way we will end up losing a further resource. On behalf of my Group, I would like to say that we are against this and confirm what our colleagues in the House have supported: this is a measure that could be structured, given the need for reform, in different times and ways, by developing concrete resources for the credit that this country needs for the companies that are closing and the families that are no longer making it. I repeat, we are absolutely opposed to this and we are opposed to a confidence which, unfortunately, will certainly come.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u15	The first school that this week visits the Senate and which is present in the gallery is the comprehensive Institute "Guido Pitocco" of Castelnuovo di Porto, in the province of Rome, which we greet. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u16	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u17	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, it is now inexorable to see in the decree-law the main legislative instrument, especially when dealing with complex and sensitive issues. Today, too, we are debating in this House a genuine reform involving the popular banks that the Government presents as urgent measures for the banking system and investment. The criticism of this measure highlighted by Forza Italia concerns two different profiles. The first, of a political-constitutional nature, has already been put to the attention of this House by Mr Bernini, who has well explained that this measure does not meet any of the constitutional criteria relating to the decree of urgency. For these reasons we would have liked these measures to be included in a draft law, the only appropriate instrument that legitimises Parliament's own functions. The constitutional dictation according to which the Government performs what Parliament, representing popular sovereignty, decides, is repeatedly reversed. But this Executive, it is now clear to everyone, makes an absolutely excessive and immeasurable use of the decree of urgency and the institution of trust, constantly mortifying the role of the Chambers. And do not let the government tell us that the adoption of some scattered agenda is worth as much as Parliament's amending function. With regard to the agenda of the Forza Italia Group, which was accepted by the Government in the Industry and Finance Commissions and which includes the sense of four amendments, I would ask the Secretary of State for Baretta to bring the text as it was deposited: The Senate commits the Government to assess the possibility that the transformation into public limited companies of popular banks will take place if the popular bank is listed on the stock exchange or is subject to European supervision. As for the second aspect, that of merit, our judgment on the measure is not positive. The obligation of the popular banks to become public limited companies contrasts with one of the main characteristics of the popular institutions, that is the close bond they have with the territory. Eliminating this peculiarity means eliminating with a stroke of hand a very important part of Italian banking tradition and fabric as a virtuous form of "funding of territory." The value of the banks most anchored to the territory lies above all in their ability and sensitivity not only in collecting numbers, but also qualitative information about the enterprise and the entrepreneur, its professional and personal excursion. A country with millions of small businesses and large differences between territories, increasingly needs a plurality of solid credit institutions that have an interest in understanding and satisfying the different needs. The capitarian vote, a head one vote, served to preserve the nature of these banking institutions as it prefigures a finance built not already on logics of pure banking profit, but around a strong idea of territorial cohesion. The ratio stated by the Government is to create a new governance in order to favor the internal aggregations and to make the raising of capital easier, especially in the face of the risk of deterioration of the budgets. But this approach overlooks the fact that the greatest risks of financial crisis in recent decades arise from joint stock banks and not from capitular voting banks. In addition, authoritative economists note that the banks SpA do not have all this ability to quickly find fresh capital in times of crisis, more than the popular ones. The recapitalisation of the Monte dei Paschi by the Treasury with 5 billion shows that this banking institution, even though it is a public limited company, has not managed to raise the necessary capital to overcome the crisis that hit it. In addition, reducing all banking institutions to the single currency of the public limited liability company is only an Italian initiative. In the European panorama, there are various forms of capitarian voting banks above and below the 8 billion mark in France, Holland, Finland, Germany and Austria, as well as in many non-European countries. I would like to focus on the 8 billion threshold chosen by the Government, above which there is the obligation of transformation into a public limited company: what is the criterion behind this choice? The ECB itself has also selected a much higher threshold for the activation of banking supervision. It is no coincidence that Forza Italia proposed that this same threshold, amounting to 30 billion, should be applied as a discriminatory criterion of the transformation obligation. The measure, as we said, is uneven, in the second part it intervenes with insufficient measures to give impetus to investment. A new category of enterprise is introduced, the small and medium-sized innovative enterprise, which is recognised as having the benefits previously reserved for start-ups. The benefits, however, relate only to research and development activities, effectively excluding all expenditure on innovative market-oriented investments. In addition, excessive red tape is expected, such as how to register in the special section of the business register. Moreover, it is not convincing that all the other provisions end up facilitating larger companies, in clear contradiction to the characteristics of our business fabric. Once again we have missed the opportunity to implement a reform of the credit that, at last, could and should have given breath to the enterprises and small artisans who today see themselves foreclosed every credit channel. Finally, we also missed yet another opportunity to boost investment. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fornaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u19	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, in this speech I will concentrate, for reasons of time, on Article 1 of the Decree-Law. This is the article that reform the discipline of popular banks. In a nutshell, the rule under discussion narrows the number of popular banks that can maintain the cooperative form to those whose size, measured by the total balance sheet assets, does not exceed EUR 8 billion. With regard to many things that I have heard, particularly in the debate on the question of the preliminary ruling, it should be pointed out to this House that reform has been called for for a long time. In the last two years, the Bank of Italy, the International Monetary Fund, Antitrust and the European Commission have spoken on this issue. Hence, from this point of view, there was an objective need, also in relation to the new model of banking supervision at European level. It must also be said, for the sake of clarity of reasoning, that cooperative credit banks do not disappear, that they are 379 in our country and are excluded from this measure, having the Government, rightly, from this point of view, chosen the way to solicit a self-reform of the BCC. However, the same popular banks do not disappear either, as a model. I remember that there are 70 popular banks in our country. At the moment there are 10, i.e. only 10, which exceed 8 billion book assets. Here comes the other issue on which I would like to draw your attention. When we talk about popular banks, rightly evoking, in some ways, history, tradition, their rooting and their role, it is spoken of as if they were subject to similar dimensions, while we are faced with a picture and a situation that has changed over the years, with a very strong acceleration between the end of the nineties and the early two thousand years, with successive aggregations, so the size of the popular banks are absolutely not comparable. I try to give some data to make this statement concrete. If we stop at the first bank - the Banco Popolare - it has 126 billion assets; the fifth bank, in order of ranking, popular, has 46 billion, the tenth 12.5 billion, the twentieth two and the thirty-fifth 396 million. The dimensions, that is, are the question. The question I ask all of you is: what has remained of the function of the initial cooperative and mutual mission in a subject that has 126 billion assets - I quote the first bank of the ranking, the Banco Popolare - and that is present in 60 provinces in Italy? The reference, for example, is to UniCredit and Banca Intesa: they are two large national banks, present in 70 provinces. So, in reality, the decree-law intervenes on the great popular benches that, over time, have substantially changed their nature and their objectives. I believe that the reasons for the need for intervention were very clearly underlined at the hearing of the Director-General of the Banca d'Italia, Salvatore Rossi, in the Chamber of Deputies. He has emphasized that, at this moment, these popular banks - that is those that have exceeded a certain dimension - in a situation of strong stress of the capital market, also in view of future increases of capital, are faced with a competitive disadvantage. The capitarian vote and the limit to the possession of shares are today an element of objective difficulty for the system of popular banks and therefore, in this perspective, the obligation to transform into public limited companies is justified. There is also a governance issue, but I would like to be very clear about that. I am not convinced that there is a form of society that in itself protects itself from the risks of bad governance. We have also recently had the example of public limited companies which have had problems and which are being investigated by the judiciary, some of which are coming to the final judgment. Certainly, however, the problem also concerns the popular banks - especially the large popular banks - which have experienced serious incidents in the recent past. In this case, too, I would like to mention the director of the Banca d'Italia, who pointed out how elements of opacity have been introduced over time in the relations between members and directors of the popular banks, sometimes causing interference in management choices by organized minorities, in directions other than those of utility for the generality of the stakeholders: members, savers, companies financed. In recent years, of prolonged recession - Dr. Rossi has continued - of crisis of sovereign debts, the Bank of Italy has had to intervene in not few cases of serious difficulties of banks of every legal form, popular and not. Often the difficulties have been exacerbated, even to a dramatic extent, by the prolonged and uncontrolled hegemony of a single figure or group of power expression of a minority. In the large popular, the risk of such a drift is accentuated precisely by the company's form. In 2014 he attended the assemblies of the major popular banks on average, counting also the delegations, just over one in ten members. However, they are several thousand people: mobilizing them means that administrators need to engage in a real election campaign, with obvious risks of clientelism. On the one hand, therefore, there is an issue of economic democracy, but on the other hand, there is the question of making an important asset, represented by the large popular banks, competitive and secure. Monocameralism in fact prevented a series of reasonings and improvements to the decree-law under consideration. In the final part of my speech I would therefore like to address the representative of the Government to offer some suggestions or, at least, to indicate the lines of those improvements that, if we had had the necessary time, we could have made during this passage to the Senate, but not before having emphasized that, in many respects, the solution of the bill would have been preferable to that of the decree-law, because objectively we intervene on a delicate and complex matter, as I tried to remember. Another questionable element is the identification of EUR 8 billion of assets as a limit for the transformation into public limited companies. Amendments have been tabled to the House of Deputies to raise this limit to EUR 30 billion. Another solution could have been chosen, which I personally would have preferred, by dividing the world of popular banks between listed and unlisted: the criterion of listing on the stock exchange - already chosen by six of these parties, while one seventh had already deliberated - could have been preferable. It would have been possible, moreover, to render - I pass the expression "less attractive" the popular ones, safeguarding also some peculiarities, because the risk of takeover must absolutely worry us. Well, then, from this point of view, the introduction into Parliament's work in the roof chamber of five per cent at the maximum limit of use of voting rights, which, however, applies at this stage only for the first 24 months. It is not clear - and on this I ask the Government if it is possible in the reply to have a clarification - whether the statutes can make this limitation on the model already used for the main Italian bank, which is Unicredit, stable in perspective. In addition, some solutions could have been found to preserve certain peculiarities of the popular system and its rooting on the territory. For example, the possibility of introducing into the statute, which could not be changed except with qualified majorities after the transformation into Spa, a share of five percent of the profits to reinvest them in the territory; 20% of the social bodies voted by capitular vote could have been identified. Ultimately, the warm invitation that I address to the Government is to accompany the path of these 24 months, on the one hand certainly favoring the processes of aggregation and rationalization under the guidance of Banca d'Italia and on the other recognizing a value to the culture of several hundred years from the popular banks in the perspective of the new European banking supervision. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u20	Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u21	Mr President, with this measure the Government also intended to enact a set of provisions - legal, financial and fiscal - that would encourage the influx of investments, including foreign investments, into the Italian business system. We have tried to support small and medium-sized enterprises and innovative start-ups by trying to improve legislation with some measures so that it can deliver all its potential by producing even more consolidated results. I would like to remind the Assembly that the Chamber, thanks to the 5 Star Movement's Citizens' Group, has been added paragraph 10 -bis, which introduces some form requirements for the act of incorporation of innovative start-ups and certified incubators. Specifically, it has been ensured that the instrument of incorporation and subsequent amendments are drawn up: by public act, or by act signed with digital signature; according to the standard model typed by MISE and transmitted to the competent office of the business register. As of 1 October 2014 in Italy there were 2,655 innovative start-ups and 31 certified incubators; the rate of growth of this ecosystem is among the few to be positive and varies between 30 and 40 units per week with regard to innovative start-ups. At the end of December 2014, the number of innovative start-ups registered in the special section of the business register was 3,179 units, up 549 units compared to the end of September. Start-ups are 0.21 percent of almost 1.5 million Italian capital companies. The share capital of start-ups is a total of 153 million euros, which corresponds on average to about 48,000 euros per company. The average capital is rising by almost 20% compared to the third quarter. From a sectoral point of view, almost 73 percent of innovative start-ups provide services to businesses, 18 percent work in the sectors of industry in the strict sense and 3.8 percent in trade. The main players on the Italian innovation scene point to the difficulty of doing business, especially in areas requiring high technical specialisation. A serious problem is the poor intention of private investors to lend funding, and this because of the poor credibility of the country system that finds its deep roots in excessive labour costs and high taxation, in the uncertainty of law and justice and in the insurmountable bureaucracy. Start-ups with a predominantly female corporate structure are 12.5 percent of the total. The majority of youth (under 35) are 26 percent of the total: more than four times that of youth capital companies. In absolute value, Milan is the province that hosts the largest number of innovative start-ups, 466; follow Rome, Turin, Trento and Naples. However, if you consider these values in relation to the number of capital companies in the Province, Trento is first in the ranking with 103 start-ups every 10,000 capital companies, while Milan is very far away with an index equal to 29. Overall, innovative start-ups recorded a production of almost € 213 million in 2013. One of the peculiar features of innovative start-ups is the high degree of immobilization from assets: the ratio is 30.5 percent and is five times the average ratio of capital companies. The ROI and ROE profitability indicators of innovative start-ups show negative values, but if only for profitable companies, the indices are much better than those of other capital companies. The financial structure of innovative start-ups is relatively better than that of capital companies. Reverse situation for start-ups in profit, which have a financial situation worse than the average of the capital companies. In fact, for every euro of production, innovative start-ups generate on average 13 cents of value added, a figure lower than that of capital companies (20 cents). Limited to profitable companies, start-ups generate more added value than capital companies (32 cents versus 22 cents). For all these reasons we wanted to improve, I repeat, with some measures the legislation in support of the ecosystem of the start-up, starting from the changes to the raising of venture capital through online portals. We have proposed: the abolition of the minimal INPS contribution for the directors of innovative start-up members; the contribution amounts to about 3,600 euros per year. The State assumes a minimum income and thus sets a minimum contribution threshold. But start-ups can also have zero income for four or five years, because the goal of start-ups is not to generate income at an early stage. We have proposed exemption from the requirement to apply the visa of conformity, which is a bureaucratic burden which contains tax information in itself. We proposed the gratuitousness of the first endorsement of social books. It was a few hundred euros, but it would have been a help. We have proposed the exemption from the government concession payment for the first year and the creation of co-working spaces for innovative SMEs through the redevelopment of public real estate assets in order to promote the birth of new innovative start-ups. The State could promote the use of unused public real estate, after energy and anti-seismic redevelopment of the building concerned, to establish coworking spaces. With these amending proposals we wanted to send a big signal to the country, to our young people abroad and to investors, who invest from us, that in Italy it is easier and more convenient to make innovation. But obviously we have deep and different visions about how to improve the potential of our country. In fact, to be honest, you are interested in the country's potential, but only and exclusively to sprinkle it to the core. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u22	She is registered to speak Senator Fabbri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the positive signals coming from our economy are encouraging even though the road is still long. Recent OECD data tell us that our country can engage the economic recovery: Italy has gone from a stalemate on reforms to an optimal step of reforms, and for this reason we are more positive on the future prospects, they tell us from the organization. For the country, they add, there are opportunities also thanks to a better context. That is why we need to push the accelerator towards the reforms that the Government and Parliament have been examining over the last few months. Everything needs to be done to strengthen these positive impulses and solidify the recovery, so insist on the structural reform programme. In this context, and with these premises, acting on the banking system is a fundamental element. That is why the measure we are debating is important. The measures introduced in this decree-law are decisive because they aim to strengthen the banking system, adapting it to the European and international scene. The measure on popular banks and investment reform a key sector of our economy, in order to make it more robust in order to strengthen the commitment to support investment and export for our companies. An intervention, the one on popular banks, not punitive, whose aim is to work to modernise these institutions, which have all the characteristics of traditional banks, but which retain a form of governance that in some cases has not given good proof of itself. The transformation of popular banks into public limited companies is, therefore, central in the face of bank changes in the post-crisis scenario. The decree-law takes into account the role these institutions have in the territory, a role that has seen them very often guarantee social justice, especially - let us not forget - during the years of the crisis. The same president of the Antitrust, Giovanni Pitruzzella, has recently explained that this decree-law goes in the right direction. Removing regulatory obstacles and incrustations is the sense of intervention on popular banks. However, I would like to focus on the chapter that this measure is dedicated to small and medium-sized enterprises. This is an important and not secondary part, unjustly obscured by the controversy over popular banks, reserved for investment in favour of companies: a largely correct section in the parliamentary passage to the House. We are talking about a decree-law that provides for important issues concerning small and medium-sized enterprises, export support and start-ups. It also gives a strong boost to the development of innovative small and medium-sized enterprises, with a set of rules that create conditions conducive to the birth and development of innovative SMEs, allowing a significant contribution to economic growth and employment, in particular to youth and specialized SMEs. It is a measure that makes our system increasingly attractive, attractive for innovative companies, able in turn to attract financial investments for this sector and to be competitive on international markets. Also important is the chapter that aims to promote the internationalization of the Italian economy with Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, which will also provide credit through SACE. The use of funds from the separate management of Cash deposits and loans is therefore authorised for all operations to support the internationalisation of enterprises. There are also a number of innovations concerning the chapter for innovative small and medium-sized enterprises. The potential audience of companies recognised as innovative start-ups and those which, as innovative small and medium-sized enterprises, access facilities has increased. Innovative start-up schemes are expected to be available to companies that have been undertaking business for no more than five years, while currently the limit is 48 months. The management of acts relating to innovative small and medium-sized enterprises shall be without prejudice to the obligation to pay the secretarial rights due for compliance with registrations in the register of undertakings, as well as the payment of the annual fee due in favour of the Chambers of Commerce. It is also expected that innovative small and medium-sized enterprises whose first commercial sale - and no longer the founding act - took place no later than seven years ago will benefit from the investment incentives. In addition to other requirements, innovative small and medium-sized enterprises can only be those whose shares are not listed on a regulated market. Innovative small and medium-sized enterprises will be defined as small and medium-sized enterprises which are capital companies, even in cooperative forms. It will be established by July 30, 2015, at the institutional site of the Ministry of Economic Development, a portal in which all the information and documents necessary to access public and private financing calls, direct and indirect, in favour of innovative small and medium-sized enterprises and innovative start-ups. In addition, the operation of the Central Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises is strengthened: the limit set for the granting of the Guarantee from the Fund to the newly granted financial operations will only be for the direct guarantee. The procedures for recovering the funds for which the guarantee of the fund has been contested will be strengthened and it will become easier to transfer your current account and open a cross-border account. The operation of the Fund will be extended to insurance undertakings for financing activities, other than guaranteeing, to entities other than natural persons and micro-enterprises. Moreover, with a decision of the CIPE, specific directives will have to be issued to ensure the widest access of the small and medium-sized enterprises of the Mezzogiorno to the interventions of the Guarantee Fund, also through the identification of possible priorities of access to the guarantee taking into account the beneficiaries and the eligible financial operations. The right to return to the final beneficiary and to third parties providing guarantees of the sums paid as losses from the Guarantee Fund shall constitute a privileged credit and shall prevail over any other right of pre-emption. Very important, ladies and gentlemen, is the fact that priority will be given to investigating and deciding on requests for access to the Central Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises linked to ILVA. In order to further simplify access to the Fund for those undertakings, it is specified that the Management Board of the Fund will have to decide within 30 days of the request and that after this deadline the request is deemed to be accepted. It also deserves particular appreciation Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which provides that the Government promotes the establishment of a public limited company for the capitalization and restructuring of companies, based in Italy, whose capital will be entirely subscribed by institutional and professional investors. The objective is the restructuring, support and rebalancing of the financial and capital structure of companies which are characterised by adequate industrial and market prospects. In the course of the examination to the Chamber, some modifications have been made regarding the scope of operation, the purposes, the subscribers and the operating modalities of the society. In particular, the operational scope of the company has expanded, eliminating the exclusive reference to industrial companies among those for the relaunch of which the company itself will be able to undertake initiatives; it is specified that the society will have to favour processes of consolidation both industrial and employment. Finally, but not as a matter of importance, I should like to point out the rule which obliges credit institutions to transfer their current accounts without cost within 12 working days; a sign of attention for households and consumers. Mr President, I close by saying that this measure appears to be another important component for this Government and for the responsible forces of Parliament, which is in addition to a reform process - as mentioned at the outset - already in place. A process of renewal and reform ranging from tax, to the world of work, to public administration, to justice, to constitutional reform. It is also an important way of engaging in the long-awaited recovery. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u24	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u25	Mr President, it is clear to everyone that the most important part of this decree-law is that of the transformation of popular banks from institutions with a mutual cooperative system to public limited companies. This, apart from the many considerations and illustrations made by the rapporteurs and colleagues of the majority, represents the cornerstone of the decree-law that we start - or rather start - to approve. It is a very important transformation that we contest both in the method and in the merit. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In the method, because it is implemented with the usual "renziano" system of decree-laws and trust placed at the last moment, that is when the discussion begins at the Senate, today, day 24 March 2015, well knowing that the deadline within which the decree-law must be approved is March 25, 2015. The Senate of the Republic, therefore, is granted only one day for the discussion of this measure and in fact prevents the amendment, which is certainly not obstructive, because the amendments tabled are few, punctual and not the result of obstructive will. The method, therefore, is always the same: tomorrow I believe we will reach the 34th confidence in a year, on the approval of decree-laws that have nothing urgent, but contain very heterogeneous issues within them. In Renzi, however, everything is allowed, while in other situations, against other governments, the strails of the President of the Republic in turn would have been lifted, such as those that have ruled us in recent decades, and there would have been the raising of shields of many authoritative constitutionalists and intellectuals, newspapers and so on. In reality, however, Renzi is allowed to do everything, as is this reform - or rather, counter-reform - which in fact cancels a reality, that of the Italian popular banks, which, with its peculiarities, has existed for over a hundred years, and which had not been demanded by practically anyone, either by these institutions or by the European Union, as the President of the Council often likes to say. Europe does not ask for this, in essence, because this type of bank, of mutual and cooperative nature, exists throughout Europe, as for example in that Germany often used as a model of economic development. Well, we make an opposite choice and countertrend, deciding the cancellation of popular banks, their transformation, co-active and compulsory, into public-sector companies and the distortion of their function, even social, for the economy of our territories. I would like to remind you that the popular banks represent a wealth for the access to credit of the system of small and medium-sized enterprises, especially of Northern Italy and my Veneto, because they have allowed access to credit to families and small industries, especially in recent years of crisis, with a proportion of availability to this economic fabric far superior to the large banks, which have as their social purpose not only a mutual and cooperative effect on their members and the territory, but above all financial aims and capitalization of income. In our view, therefore, it is better for our economy to have a differentiated banking system, without flattening on public limited companies alone. The diversity of banking systems, which works in many European countries (Germany in the first place) and which was also to remain in our Italian capitalist system, by this Government is actually deleted. This is the vision of democracy and the rules of the free market that obviously have the Democratic Party and its President of the Council, Matteo Renzi, and it is clear to everyone that his model of democracy is certainly not ours: he makes reforms in which they say that the Provinces are being cancelled, but in fact the only thing that is being cancelled is the democratic representation of the elected ones; it is said that the Senate is deleted, but in fact it is forbidden exclusively to the citizens to vote their representatives; he is said to want to overcome the electoral law - the famous Porcellum, so reproached by the Democratic Party - but it is basically done a Porcellum 2, in which three quarters of the new elected will be appointed by the head of the party and, in particular, as regards the President of the Council, by the head of the party that he continues to be, even though he is President of the Council. It is therefore a democratic vision which we do not like and which we do not agree with: in fact, the popular power of choice of its representatives is exonerated and we see the same attitude and the same risk in this choice. If the measure now under consideration is approved, as is clear to all, there will be a greater difficulty in accessing credit and, secondly, less control of the territory in its banking system. Thirdly, we have a concern, which can be a conjecture that only in the coming years we will see if it is unfounded, and it is that this transformation into a public limited company is linked exclusively to the desire to allow mergers with other banking institutions in difficulty, such as the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, in order to achieve their rescue: the priority therefore to modify the popular banks in spa therefore does not derive from economic reasons, but exclusively from the need to allow mergers, which are currently impossible, between our popular banks and the large banks in difficulty. Difficulty created by whom? From the political system Renzi represents! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is unacceptable to us, because it affects our economy, our businesses and our families, the shareholders of the popular banks, and it is therefore unacceptable this kind of change in the interests of the few. This reform is going through silence, like all the negative things that the current Government is doing and unfortunately has created a system in which it is protected by the great groups of power and by the great information, in which there are few voices of dissent towards the President of the Council. But a voice will always remain in this Parliament and in our territory, the free voice of the North League and its representatives, who, beyond the fake reforms of the Renzi Government, will try to explain to the citizens what is happening in these palaces to total contempt for democracy and the interests of the country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u26	Senator Manassero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Mr Senators, Mr Senator, we are today discussing in this House the reform of the system of popular banks, a measure of which both the Bank of Italy and the Monetary Fund and the European Commission wanted to start. The text under consideration provides that the popular banks holding a consolidated asset of more than EUR 8 billion - and ten of them have been identified - must activate, within 18 months of the implementation regulation of Banca d'Italia, one of the following shares: the reduction of the asset, bringing it under the threshold of EUR 8 billion; the transformation into ordinary-share companies, thus abandoning the historical governance based on the capitarian vote, or the choice to arrive at the liquidation; in the event of non-compliance with the law of the shareholders' meeting, the Bank of Italy will be able to act to obtain the withdrawal of the banking license. It is a long history that of popular banks, which finds its roots in the socialist cooperative tradition and Catholic associationism. A mutual instrument from which peasants, artisans and small entrepreneurs united by coexistence on a territory found a response to the need for credit and a management of its supply close to their economic and social realities, to their needs. A problem, that of the provision and the need for credit, which still remains today and on which we still have a lot of work to spend. The system of popular banks has then changed over time and I apologise for the abbreviation of such an important story, of which it would be useful to keep in the acts and statutes that will accompany the next transformation and also in that slice of system that will permanence, the values of cooperation, mutualism and the connection, understood in its positive meaning, with the local communities. The changes that time has generated in the system of popular banks such as the enlargement of the turnover due both to natural growth, and to the needs of supervision and credit security, the trespassing from the territorial realities that had generated them and also the uniformity of the supply of the products, flattened to the proposals of a market where the research and the exclusivity of a service have very short duration, generate today an anomaly in the field of the credit to which the reform puts hands. Even governance historically characterized by the capitarian vote, a head one vote, has highlighted all the many critical issues that today need to be resolved, for example transparency in the collection of delegations in the assembly and in the transfer of shares for unlisted banks, the choice of management in addition to the habit - found in some realities - of the formation of dynasties of directors and the overcoming of self-referentiality. Let us therefore start from these observations and these limits, knowing that the model of the capitarian vote had been designed to protect the assets of popular banks as a result of a specific community: it prevented speculative or climbed acquisitions by other banks or private individuals. This reform will therefore profoundly change their structure and approach. Popular banks, some of which are in crisis and are looking for new capital, will be able to re-enter into merger or aggregation processes exactly as successful for other credit institutions in this sector. However, I think it is good to accompany this reorganization by limiting the exercise of the right to vote to 5% of the share capital in the first two years since the transformation into a joint stock company, in order to avoid these speculative effects. Having said that, I would like to report today the reading that we have devoted to this measure in the Commission, which is concerned not only with the reform of popular banks, but also with measures for innovative small and medium-sized enterprises, appreciating the opportunities for the consolidation of highly skilled employees. This measure in fact gives rise to the new category of innovative SMEs, which will be able to access most of the simplifications and facilitations currently provided for start-ups, a type of company born no more than four years ago. The measure lays down the requirements to be included in the category of innovative small and medium-sized enterprises and to be entered in a special section of the register of enterprises. In addition to some financial and corporate characteristics, it is required that at least two of the three requirements are met and, among them, the presence of highly qualified staff (employees and consultants), presence that is established in punctual percentages with respect to the workforce and variables depending on whether it is a doctor or PhD or graduates with certified three-year research experience or a master's degree. I think this is an important opportunity to stabilize highly skilled work. Different consequences on the labour side for the part relating to the reform of popular banks. We have pointed out in the Commission that the reorganisation process that will involve the system of popular banks (the ten banks currently identified on the basis of the numbers and all the system that could be involved from this process) will put at risk the level of employment of banking employees in the sector. There are 60,000 employees today and Assopopular forecasts estimate 20 percent of places at risk. The credit category has up to now overcome many restructurings thanks to good coverage guaranteed by bilateral agreements, missing the public shock absorbers used for other categories of workers. It will therefore be necessary to monitor both the reorganisation processes and accompanying actions in order to unify public measures and to arrive at bilateral instruments on the basis of agreements between the parties. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u28	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all too often in recent years the presence of abuse and illegality has been used as a pretext for introducing reforms that have been detrimental to citizens. This has been seen very clearly in the privatisations of large state-owned companies and in the various reforms, real or announced, of public administration. No one can deny that the system of state participations should be extensively revised and corrected: its almost complete disposal, however, had the only effect of creating new monopolies and new and more serious sources of pollution of public life. No one can deny that the entire public sector needs to be improved and made more efficient. The continuous cuts, often justified by a campaign of demonization of civil servants - all without distinction painted as incapable and idle - have, however, had the only effect of worsening the quality of essential services or even making them inaccessible to ordinary people. I suspect that something like this is now also happening with the reform of popular banks. There have certainly been abuses in the management of some of them. These phenomena, however, can and must be corrected with the instruments that already exist: with the application, that is, of the principles of banking law, civil law and criminal law. Unfortunately, on the other hand, once again, the child throws himself with dirty water. Or rather, dirty water is used as a pretext to throw the baby away. In spite of all abuses, it must be clear that popular banks have played a very positive role in the national economy. Their connection with the territory has allowed for years the access to credit of small or craft companies, which would otherwise have had difficulty in financing themselves. With their very existence, they have fed, as it recalls in a recent article "Avvenire" (Avvenire), that economic biodiversity which, alongside the cultural one, has been the real treasure of a country rich in its diversity. This will no longer happen. One thing, in fact, must be clear. The measure that obliges popular banks to turn into public limited companies, thus renouncing their cooperative nature based on the capitarian vote (a head is worth a vote), marks the end of this original expression of our economy. From now on he will command who has the most actions. We will look for the profit where it is thought appropriate and in the forms that will most consider appropriate. In this way the local and territorial character of the popular banks will fail. Nothing will prevent popular banks, so distorted, from dedicating themselves to speculation, playing on derivatives and other devices of creative finance. Nothing will prevent capital accumulated with work and the labors of local communities from ending up in the hands of people who are ready to manage them on the basis of interests completely unrelated to those of these places. Is that what we want? The story of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena that, after centuries of glorious existence as a local bank, was on the verge of failure at the moment when it decided to internationalize itself, should have taught us something. Unfortunately, in a world where, as Thomas Piketty demonstrated on the basis of difficult data, the main source of enrichment and power is rapidly shifting from production to income: the very presence of financial entities linked to the local economy is presented as an archaic absurdity. It has been said that this reform will remove the banks from the local ladies; I doubt that this is true: Italian history shows that local ladies almost always manage to get away with it, perhaps changing their clothes and putting themselves at the service of new interests. On the other hand, I think it is more likely that the old gentlemen will be added to new, national and international ones, even worse, as they are indifferent to the fates and destinies of our country. The expense will be, once again, Pants. [[Applause from Senators Bell and Casaletto.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u30	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of popular banks, contained in Decree-Law No 3 of 2015, is not an attack on economic democracy. What are popular banks today in Italy? They are banks just like the others, only that they have different rules of operation, such as the liking of the current members compared to the new ones. The rule of liking implies that, if a person wants to buy shares in a popular bank and exercise the rights that derive from that purchase (vote in the assembly, inspection of social books, appeal of shareholders' resolutions), he must ask permission from those who are already members. Then, regardless of the number of shares held, each member has only one vote. Still, no member can have more than one percent of the capital, except for investment funds, which have no share limits, but which can still not express more than one vote. Once, popular banks had the character of mutuality, which resulted from the cooperative form of society. If this philanthropic and mutualist spirit still exists in cooperative societies in general, it is all to be demonstrated, given the operational logic of the Legacoop itself and many of its associates. Of course it is, however, that the popular banks, today, have largely lost all traits of mutuality. In the 1993 Single Text, a social or benefit obligation for a share of profits for popular banks is completely lacking. Basically, popular banks are banks where the personal element counts much more than the asset, and this - if I may say so - is a contradiction in terms. The popular bank is not a charity or a non-profit organization: it is a company that seeks profits. It is, however, an enterprise in which friendship groups, groups of people, unions of employees count much more than the economic and financial energies that go deep in it. The government claims that this system, above eight billion assets - beware: eight billion - must end. Personally, I agree. The cooperative credit banks, which are aimed at crediting the members, remain intact, as well as the popular banks, whose active mass (i.e. the loans granted) lies below eight billion, remain in place. Those that will instead have to be transformed into ordinary banks, with the form of public limited companies, have an asset of more than eight billion. That the capitarian personal management of the popular banks is a garrison to the flow of casual characters is then denied by the recent history of the People's Bank of Milan, which only three years ago was hit by a scandal of vast proportions (the investigations were concluded in March 2014). In fact, the former president of the People's Party was accused of having established a "parallel structure" for granting credit to the politicians of Milan, such as - among others - representatives who are still in Parliament today. He was accused of having a privileged relationship with a very close collaborator of the then minister Tremonti and with many politicians, so credit was not given to those who deserved it, but to those who were friends of the clique. The People of Milan also turned out to have given substantial funding to the companies that manage the slot machines, which is not really the small and ingenious local craftsmanship. I mean, I'm not saying that these things don't happen in ordinary banks, but I'm saying that the structure of popular banks wasn't a guarantee that they wouldn't happen. I come to the most important objection that is moved to the reform contained in Decree-Law No. 3: the large commercial banks would have a structure and an organization insensitive to the needs of the Italian productive morphology, that is, the net fabric of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is argued from various quarters that small and medium-sized enterprises find little heed in the standardised and rigid procedures of large banking realities, since these respond to the prospect of profit on an international scale and according to the markedly financial profile of the global economy, and neglect the needs of the real economy rooted in the territory. People's banks pointed out that, in the period 2008-2013, commercial banks would have contracted the credit by 16%, while popular banks would have increased it by 4.9. These percentage figures would in fact not be decisive, since we must always consider the starting data, which are not presented. If, for example, large banks started from huge exposures to businesses at the beginning of the crisis period, having overall contracted 16 percent jobs does not, in itself, mean that they have closed the credit taps. I note, however, that among the popular banks that will be affected by the measure, there are two credit institutions that respectively have an active mass of 126 billion (the Banco Popolare, that is, the bank deriving from the aggregation of many popular banks such as, among others, the People of Verona, San Geminiano and San Prospero and the People of Lodi, then Banca Popolare Italiana, that of Fiorani, not just a good example) and 124 billion (the UBI Banca). I do not, therefore, believe that banking is particularly linked to territorial specificities. The impression is, instead, that the progressive concentration of popular banks has followed a trajectory very similar to commercial banks, whose characteristics, on the other hand, the critics of the decree-law censor. Moreover, it must be stressed that not all popular banks are forced into transformation, but only large banks. If there is an experienced ability of the small popular banks to finance the entrepreneurial initiatives of the territory, well this attitude is preserved by the limit of 8 billion and the permanence of the cooperative credit banks. The popular banks that are induced to become joint stock companies are the ones that have, each, branches in 60% of the country's territory and it is, therefore, a bit difficult for them to act as "banche of the corner of the road," like the baker. Last but not least, I stress the issue of European banking supervision. Integration in Europe also brings the need for uniform supervisory parameters (i.e. monitoring of compliance by an independent authority) to be respected. One of those parameters is the banking assets, which must be possessed to meet the risks of the activity, since - excuse the obvious - credit is not exactly like selling coats. We know that the popular banks in Italy have credit deteriorated to a greater percentage of the average of the Italian banks and, therefore, have recently needed measures to strengthen assets, which it has been difficult to implement with an unremovable management, because decided by corporate bodies in which the principle applies: a head, a vote. In conclusion, Article 1 of the Decree-Law basically agrees with me. As for Article 2, on the portability of the current account, I am fully satisfied, because it is my own personal battle. For these reasons, I am not inclined to endorse the concerns that have been expressed and I am announcing my vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u32	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u33	Mr President, we have been discussing popular banks for 20 years because a reform had to be done. However, precisely because the speech is delicate and it is going to impact heavily on the real economy, the reform was not to be done with a decree-law. The only urgency that seems to be manifested by reading this act of the Government is the taking on, in the immediate, of the savings of the Italians, entering to leg tense in the free associationism and carrying on the war of the capitals. This decree-law violates, at the legal level, Articles 2, 3, 18, 41, 45 and 47 of the Constitution. Details! It's basically a billionaire expropriation. It doesn't make any economic sense. I remember, in fact, that 163 economists signed an appeal to stop this reform and Rete Italia said, at the hearing, that this is a very dangerous operation, that puts at risk the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises and families. In fact, the banks SpA are more inclined to do financial trading, rather than credit, because the credit makes too little for such a competitive market. In fact, public limited companies have a lower credit intensity than the total assets. Ten banks pass from capitarian voting to equity voting and an amendment to the right of withdrawal is inserted also by way of derogation from the laws. So we are going to have an impact on a system that was of economic democracy. Why not worry about the other banking system, which has caused the global financial crisis and which, unlike cooperative banks, is at systemic risk? You are changing the balance of the Italian banking system, once again, to save the banks - the banks SpA - and give them the opportunity to appropriate the healthy capital of the people. Let's face it: these ten new banks SpA will save the banks of your friends, that as a state you have not managed to save, opening also to speculation the Italian savings, that still has a very rich market - we speak of almost 1,000 billion euros - on which many want to get their hands. The Mafia has succeeded, entering the real economy of the North, because it has understood that the real business is now private GDP and no longer the public one. You do this in part with this decree-law, but I have already said in this House that the state has become the worst of the mafias. In the decree-law we are talking not only about the reform of the people, but also about the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, extending the audience once again and offering the guarantee of the state also to operations already decided. What are we guaranteeing? Contracts already signed, which we do not know. It was not enough to guarantee banks, through the Bank deposits and loans, with respect to derivative contracts with local authorities: now we have to guarantee other "friends of friends," always with the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, and you have also included silence-consent. The measure also seeks to attract foreign capital to Italy. But dealing with this subject, undersecretary Baretta, the Government always forgets that foreign capital will never be invested in Italy if the problem of corruption, which raises costs, and without fiscal and tax certainty, is not solved. I remember that, in the last 12 months, there have been four changes to the tax discipline for every working day: how do you think that from abroad they can invest with these uncertainty conditions? I shall end by spending a few words on the parliamentary process. The decree-law under consideration has remained fifty days in the Chamber of Deputies and here in the Senate you will put trust, exauthorizing once again the Upper House from its legislative peculiarities. I thank the government for that, too. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cucchetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are going to convert into law deserves a comment and a hope in this House. I begin with the comment: the forceful transformation into a public society of the major people is not in itself a mistake - indeed - but the way in which it is made arouses widespread reservations, which I share. The threshold of EUR 8 billion of assets, beyond which the rule contained in the measure is taken, appears arbitrary both in terms of quality and quantity. It is said that the great populars are no longer cooperatives because they are now untied from the territories of origin. That is right, but it is even more fair to say that all popular cooperatives are spurious. Unlike the cooperatives themselves, they pay dividends and can, if they believe, distribute the assets among the members. Mutual exchange is almost non-existent. But then - I say - why limit the transformation into a public-sector society to the larger-scale popular suns? And if it is the dimension that undermines the cooperative nature of these companies and not the rules on assets and profits, why merely turn credit cooperatives into joint stock companies and not other major national and international cooperatives in the sectors of consumption and production? Clearly I do not hope so, but because I do not hope so, I hope that, in the reply, the Government, in which a high representative of the cooperatives sits, such as Minister Poletti - represented here by Deputy Minister Baretta, who comes from the union - will clarify these points. And I wouldn't want that to happen because, not rarely, logic ends where politics begins. There is more. If the size is the criterion chosen by the Government, how is the threshold set above which the obligation to become a public limited company arises? The European Banking Union sets a minimum limit of 30 billion to be considered as systemic banks. A criterion that is not too logical, but fair, could have been the European threshold and, in any case, the qualitative threshold of being quoted to become a public limited company. I wonder: why do gold-plating, or, to get out of the jargon, why do "pierini," and say instead 8 billion? Someone suspected that in this way, the two popular unlisted Venetians and the People of Etruria, quoted but distracted, could be put into the lot, with that of Bari as the final fig leaf. I do not subscribe to the party of suspicion, also because the threshold - in my opinion - is not the main problem. The main problem is the effects that this decree-law will have on the control structures of the large people once transformed into public limited companies. The capitarian vote made the popular, if not expensive, as happened for the Mantua Agricultural Bank and for the Cooperative Bank of Imola, climbed successfully, one from the Mount of the Paschi and the other from the CariRavenna. This is not the place to discuss the advantages of high totem contestability for the financial system, which operates in the short term, and the disadvantages for the industrial system, which works on long-term. It would perhaps be appropriate for the parties - and mine too - to find a way of thinking about it, given to the hand. But we're on the subject. Without a capitarian vote, the populars become contestable, having their share companies very divided. The Bank of Italy considers that, in this way, they can make more easily the capital increases that European supervision will require. Director-General Rossi acknowledged in the Chamber that the people today have a heritage of better quality similar to that of the banks SpA, but he recalls how this result was achieved in extremis and by virtue of the pressure of the Bank of Italy. Rossi also pointed out that the deteriorated claims of the most popular are equal to 18% of the jobs - two points higher than the average of the system - and that the level of coverage of the risk funds is just over 30%. Personally, I would have completed the statistical picture by remembering that the deteriorated credits are expressed grossly and that, in comparison with the average of the 13 banks supervised by Europe, the greater populars do not go so badly (there is a point of difference); as the coverage ratio, to which they have made first reference, is low especially in one of the major populars, the one that has the highest own means, higher, in proportion, to those of Unicredit and Intesa San Paolo. And above all, I would have remembered that the capitalization of the banks is not an absolute fact, but a relationship between the equity and the risk-weighted assets and that, from this point of view, the banks larger public limited companies have settled both by making capital increases and, above all, by cutting loans to the customers, while the greater populars have given more confidence and, therefore, have boarded more real and potential losses on the credits. Just to give three numbers, and to complete the picture carried out by Senator Ricchiuti, I say that, between 2003 and 2013, the popular ones have increased their loans by 117 percent, year after year; the cooperative credit banks (BCC) have increased their credit to customers by 91 percent, while the SpA, that in recent years have heavily cut them, have increased them in the decade only by 38 percent. I find it difficult, therefore, to follow - it is my weakness, others are better than me - the logic according to which, in times of recession, the banks are invited on Monday to give more credit to the customers, and on Tuesday they are reproached because, giving it, they have had more suffering. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]] The 30-year experience suggests a few more doubts. To be contentible means to be scalable. But once climbed, it becomes no longer contestable: the former popular, become joint stock companies, once climbed, will have a master and their ratios will depend on those of the group from which they will be absorbed. We know that Santander, Société Générale and Deutsche Bank have plans for the purchase of future ex-populars. One colleague told me: "But Deutsche Bank lends credit to Italian companies generously. What's the matter? You have to look at these things in the long term. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]] But it seems to me to remember that, in the spring of 2011, it was Deutsche Bank that started international speculation against the Italian public debt. Did we forget that? I don't. I understand that this large German bank, padded with derivatives (he has the European record in this matter), has an interest in rebalancing its balance sheet by buying retail banking and saving abroad, because in Germany the Landesbanks remain where they were. I wonder if it's our interest, too. In the past, Antonveneta, a popular turned into a joint stock company, has been climbed and the new master has dusted it. The Crediop was taken by Dexia and went even worse. Supervision has proved helpless to ensure that the change of ownership is good for the accounts. What guarantees do we have that history will not repeat itself? To delegate everything to European supervision, watched over the commercial banking activities (ours) and very indulgent with the financial activities, typical of the banks of the North, does not seem to me to assume adequate responsibility. The capitarian vote has certainly hidden clientelisms and conservation tendencies. The Bank of Italy is right about this. Some Presidents - as Senator Ricchiuti recalled - have even had legal problems. But stability in other people has produced very positive gestures. I remember my campaign tour in Valtellina about this. On the other hand, I would like to remind you - for example - that the Bipop, one of the largest popular in its time, turned into SpA and then gave rise to all those disputes that were brought to the People of Milan, which had remained SpA. By deleting the capitarian vote - we must know - we sell the major populars and buyers will be foreign. The auction for the Central Institute of Popular Banks, in place these days, is the prologue of the phenomenon. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and De Pin]] Imagining mergers between the people and between some of these and bad SpA - such as, for example, the one that is so much talked about, between UBI and Monte dei Paschi di Siena - will not serve to preserve in Italian hands this crucial sector of credit that constitutes one of the pillars of national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u36	Senator, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u37	MUCCHETTI (PD). I'll ask you for a minute. Just do the math and see the multiples. So, what are we gonna do? Taking note of the removability of the Government and the guidelines of the Bank of Italy, I had already suggested not an irreconcilable resistance to defend the capitarian vote, but the introduction of strict limits to the right to vote, revocable with very qualified majorities. The House decided otherwise by introducing a 5% limit, which expires in two years' time. Five percent is too much. You just need four neighborhood smarties that rake up and agree on behalf of third parties and the game is done. It already happened at BNL in 2005. More, 5 percent on time is less protective than 5 percent without Unicredit's deadlines. Why this double regime? Vice-Minister Baretta told us in the Commission that this limit could be included in the statutes by simplified procedure, and that is why it should only last 24 months. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator. He's had three minutes over. MUCCHETTI (PD). I would ask you to attach the remainder of my speech and allow me to close the sentence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. MUCCHETTI (PD). The hope I mentioned at the beginning concerns the fact that the world of popular banks, if it is true that it has the strength and the consent it says it has, will be able to include in the statutes, in the coming months, the limit of 2-3 percent to the exercise of the right to vote - not to the possession of shares - revocable with a majority of 75% using, dear undersecretary Baretta, the ordinary procedures and not the simplified ones. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Di Maggio.]] If he has this strength, he will defend himself. Otherwise, it means that this world has also come to its sunset. Hope remains, however. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senators Candiani and Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u38	He is enlisted to speak Senator Jacob. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u39	Mr President, I would just like to say that, with the measure we are discussing today in this House, there is - in my opinion - a calibrated intervention that will give important opportunities to Italy of the future, to the banking system but, in particular, to innovative Italian small and medium-sized enterprises, and therefore to young people and the country system. That is why I am now announcing that I am going to vote with conviction in favour of it. I give up my speech and ask you, Mr President, to be able to attach the written text to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u40	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u41	Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u42	Mr President, the government's decree-law, which will force popular banks to become public companies that can be held in the market, has already produced and is about to produce some consequences that are easily imaginable. The observation of what is really happening helps more than any other reasoning, speech or hearing to understand the extent of the government's decision. The first obvious consequence is that today the first line of management, including the managing directors of such a significant part of the Italian banking system, is engaged in discussions, negotiations and negotiations to decide who will merge and how. In practice, in an economic phase that defines delicate is little, between winds of war and hypotheses of rift of the euro, the management, instead of dealing with credits, will be in all other business busy and we are sure that this is not indifferent to companies and accountants. The second consequence is that the worst, the most unpleasant and short-term speculation has unleashed on the market. We do not really understand who can believe that the exploit of the popular banks can be linked to assumptions of long-term value creation, on which it is possible to doubt, that they are certainly, in any case, unprovable. The long-term investor has two main issues to solve before investing in an Italian regional bank. The first and most important is that on the Italian economic perspectives; the second is that on the solidity of the assets. The transformation into a public limited company of the people has no impact on the first question; while for the second one it is really impossible not to contemplate in its analysis the very bright examples that have given us some public companies "discounted" and held in great consideration by rating agencies such as Lehman Brothers, Northern Rock, Bear Stearns, passing for those nationalized in Europe. Is it more understandable, verifiable and controllable an investment in a bank that substantially, and even with some svarion, invests surely and mainly in the territory in which it has the branches, or in one that navigates the very agitated waters of the global financial markets, perhaps with complex and opaque financial instruments? No investor, in short, but nobody at all, drinks the fairy tale of the long-term benefits of the transformation into a public limited company. [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Bonfrisco]] What you're buying is primarily contendability, and then efficiency. The latter, however, are not made with the ways and times of the Italians, who may still be careful to leave people at home from one day to the next, but with the ways and times of the global investors, who must return as soon as possible from the investment. This is what is on the table, beyond the arguments reported by certain newspapers about the benefits of public companies, look at you with a mixture of tenderness and fun from those who buy to make performances and immediately realized that there is only and only a lot of financial value to create in the short. The third consequence is that a third of the domestic banking system will remain listed without any long-term Italian permanent shareholder control. It is clear and clear that this part of the financial system will be handed over and placed on the altar of global financial markets and investors who manage masses for hundreds of billions of euros, without any kind of mediation. There are two positions in this respect. The first is that of those who think that global financial markets are a neutral and positive form, which forces them to maximize the value for shareholders and, therefore, is beneficial as such. The second is that of those who look suspiciously at the market left to themselves, in which logics of maximizing short-term profit are irresistible for the perception of bonuses and annual wages, but are out of the chart with respect to a normal person, for which any consideration of medium-term or benefit to the economy, not to mention the common good, is only a lunar reasoning more than incomprehensible. Who do we want to control savings and loans to businesses? What's more, is the recovery you want that of stock prices for the lucky few who benefit from large sales or is the recovery of the economy for everyone? This measure also has within it an extraordinarily irrational element, which is the perimeter of the reform itself, the famous threshold of 8 billion euros provided by the Government, threshold - in my opinion - irrational and even inconsistent with its aims. Someone should tell us something because this reform should only affect popular banks with assets above billions of euros rather than all of them. Someone should also tell us why the reference is to asset assets and not equity, perhaps net of depreciation. I believe that the EUR 8 billion threshold is not representative of any industrial or supervisory criteria. In my opinion, the identification of a threshold linked to the size of the asset will discourage the consolidation among the smallest popular banks, which could be induced not to pursue hypotheses of development and rationalization, perhaps reaching a reduction in credit payments, if this were to determine the exceedance of the threshold. No one has actually explained to us why EUR 8 billion. Or is it so easy to understand that there is no need for explanation? Why €8 billion? Why did someone have to come back and not someone else? Why not everyone? Questions that so far have not been answered by the Government. According to studies of European origin, it is believed that the maximum efficiency in increasing the size of realising with an asset of around 20 billion euros, while there is another benchmark that could have been the one relative to the famous 30 billion euros, that is the threshold that identifies the institutions subject to direct supervision of the ECB. Then explain why EUR 8 billion. I must remind you, for having been part of the European Parliament's Economic Commission for many years, that the debate supported - for example - by the German Government, by the German parliamentarians and by Chancellor Merkel herself on the Landeskassen-Sparkassen has always focused on the supervisory threshold, the 30 billion, and in any case those banks have been defended with some success. So I come back to the question: why just EUR 8 billion? Then there is the question of the right of withdrawal. The letter a) of paragraph 1 of Article 1 of this decree-law intervenes on the right of withdrawal, in order to avoid that the reimbursement of the shares can be negatively reflected on the computability of the shares in the supervisory assets of primary quality of the bank. This presents real criticalities: the Bank of Italy is given a general power in relation to all the hypotheses of withdrawal. It is not clear why the same requirements underlying the aforementioned provision of the Decree-Law should not apply to all subjects subject to a potential supervisory regime. This decree-law allows, that is, the Bank of Italy to sterilize not the right of withdrawal itself, but that to the reimbursement of the shares in case of withdrawal, creating disparities depending on whether the bank is listed or not [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] And we're also talking about the consequences of failure to transform. Such changes may vary according to a gradation which reaches until the institution is wound up. In so doing, the regulator is given a power that has no mitigation from the point of view of technical discretion. The mandatory transformation could have been described as an extreme ratio if popular banks had not followed a path of governance reform, according to the directives shared on a case-by-case basis with supervision. This decree-law, in addition to the repercussions on local economies, will destroy the relationship that has lasted for more than 150 years now between popular banks, families and small and medium-sized enterprises, which represent the real economic engine of Italy. And here we come to the point, on which I conclude, concerning a State and a Government that do something to change the structure and governance of what holds up what we call the subsidiarity of a country (i.e. the fact that the State always recognizes before and in any case what citizens do in the economic initiative and also credit to meet the questions and needs of its local contexts). Here, the State, when it is subsidiary, is respectful and guarantor, and not master of the lives of citizens. The worst reflection of this decree-law is that it cracks this relationship between the institutions and the local communities and, in doing so, creates the premises for the dissolution of that social life and that "more society" that are good for the State and have been the real force and the engine of any economic recovery. I come back to ask: is the recovery that you want that of the few who will benefit from the management of actions or that of the whole economy, for which it would be worth it that the popular banks can self-form, without being necessarily reformed, in order to see the cancellation of their own history? [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI) and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u43	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u44	Our work is being followed by the students and teachers of the Secondary School of First Degree (Istituto Mazzini-De Cesare) in Spinazzola, in the province of Barletta-Andria-Trani. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u47	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, today, 24 March, the anniversary of the massacre of Fosse Ardeatine is celebrated. As every year, the commemoration is held at the Mausoleum of Rome, in the presence of the high offices of the State and numerous members of the Government. In order for the memory of the victims of the massacre to be honoured in fact and not only in words, I would like to remind you that on 17 October 2013 I presented the act of inspection union with an urgent character No 3-00437, of which I am now here to solicit the development. With this act, directed to the interior minister Angelino Alfano, to whom we addressed various requests, I asked to report on the celebration of the funeral of the executioner of the Fosse Ardeatine, the Nazi general Erich Priebke, arranged at the time by the prefect of Rome Giuseppe Pecoraro, in the town of Albano Laziale, who unfortunately, like other of the Castles, had to mourn several victims in the massacre of the Fosse Ardeatine. This decision of the prefect caused at the time clashes, tensions and injuries precisely because he had encountered a strong aversion. While, on 17 March, five protesters of the Roman Castles were sent back to trial for having participated in the protest, which was due for such a serious act of the Prefect, protesters to whom all my solidarity goes, those who have the responsibility for this dangerous act, which was a fascist celebration in full order, still have to report to the House on the case. I therefore urge the President, although a little distracted by his mobile phone, to urge Minister Alfano and my colleagues, who profess to be democrats and anti-fascists, to sign this act and urge the Government to take an unequivocal, and not only form, position on the issue of Erich Priebke's funeral. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u50	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking about the events that took place yesterday afternoon in the city of Brescia. I am referring to the police officer responsible for maintaining public order, who gave the order to charge a group of demonstrators. There is an alarming situation in Brescia with regard to the issue of residence permits: since 2009 there have been serious delays and there had already been disputes, such as the demonstration of the crane. Well, in these days they have returned to manifest those who legitimately require a residence permit which, rather than denied, is granted to them late, even if there are requirements, sometimes even two years. Yesterday, during the demonstration, without any act of violence on the part of the demonstrators had occurred in the early stages, the police officer to disperse the assembly ordered to load and left first, with his baton, to strike the first people he had before, who at that time were not performing any violent action. In these cases, perhaps we should act with a little caution, because of these acts, of course, there has been a reaction, with a number of facts that have not guaranteed the public order that we wanted to ensure. The thing that surprised me most, when I saw the videos that were put on the net and that are quite eloquent, is how the agents around the official were surprised and a little scattered. They wielded the baton wondering who should be beaten, having no reason to do so, and they were dismayed. Just watch the video scenes to understand. I would like to draw attention to the ways in which these public order operations are managed, which often turn into scenarios of violence, because the more the opposition increases instead of the dialogue, the more you avoid solving the problems that are at the origin of the demonstrations like that of yesterday (that tells a very precise story, that of an unsolved problem that has been dragging for years in the city of Brescia), the more you can see facts of this type. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u53	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, last September, along with my fellow Member of the Regional Council of the Abruzzo Region, Pietro Smargiassi, I visited the Vasto Workhouse. I was therefore able to verify with my own eyes the criticalities that afflict the structure. The most obvious and paradoxical is precisely the lack of work: it is a working house only by name, because in fact work does not exist and therefore there is no rehabilitation path to reintegrate internees into society. For the staff of the prison in Vasto - because it is a prison - there is too much work instead. At present 105 units of the Prison Police are in service, while the same administration has set the minimum necessary staff to 125 units. We also keep in mind that, between prisoners and interns, the so-called Working House of Vasto is chronically crowded beyond the limit of its capacity. Despite this, instead of hiring new employees and finally starting job opportunities for inmates after two years of idleness, the penitentiary administration wants to open (without any personnel integration) a new district section, which, according to a recent inspection by the Department of the penitentiary administration, would require at least 15 additional units. It is therefore a question of demanding from 105 people to work as if they were 140. Among other things, we are not talking about young people: there has been no replacement for a long time and the average age of agents is quite high. We can only imagine how exhausting it is, over the years, a work of responsibility in daily contact with people who are severely disadvantaged, often with both physical and psychological health problems. Faced with the precipitate of a situation already compromised at the start, trade union organizations wrote a letter addressed to various recipients, including myself, declaring the state of agitation and the possibility of more striking forms of protest. I therefore felt obliged to point out the problem to this House and to stress that this is not an isolated case, but the norm in our country. Our Forces of Order have been abandoned and humiliated by Renzi and his predecessors. When the President-in-Office says that five police forces are too many and talk about mergers to save and avoid waste, he forgets to say that nobody in Europe spends less on security policies than we do. In proportion to GDP, Spain invests 10 times as much; France and Germany even 15. So let me conclude with a populist question: why is there no money in Italy to hire some extra prison agent, while there is plenty of money to pay life to politicians convicted of mafia and corruption? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-414.ana.u54	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 10.01 p.m.
