ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u4	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1504, 82, 811, 1233 and 1234.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u9	Mr President, we are talking about a subject which has received particular attention from the House of Deputies. This is one of the few bills to have been fired with a path that can be defined very clear and fast, obtaining also a significant majority. It is natural that everyone, on this type of subject, rather than a political position also has a personal position, on the basis of the reflections that belong to the sphere of his personal history and his own beliefs. I personally, Mr President, cannot talk about the experience of marriage, not having contracted it yet, but I certainly believe that I can bring my experience as a municipal administrator, and I would like to suggest in particular a reflection on a fact, Mr President. Today we are talking about a short divorce: I would not, however, want the discussion to slip away without realizing that we risk talking about a short marriage, rather than a short divorce. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] This is a matter that must not escape our attention. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks a Carabinieri investigation, which has developed between the province of Varese and that of Milan, has highlighted some delittuous phenomena, in particular a fraudulent use of the institution of marriage. I am thinking here of the exquisite civil function, that is the rights that are acquired and the conveniences that derive from it. In this regard, an article was published, which appeared not in a provincial newspaper, but in the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) and, therefore, in an authoritative source. I would like to read it, Mr President, in order to make sense of what we are saying. The article, which begins by saying: If there is no love it does nothing, the important thing is that there is money it continues telling: This is how the many Italian girls thought that, for money, they had persuaded themselves to marry a Moroccan to pocket 3,500 euros. Young people, in general, were girls with family problems, or even drug addiction. The wedding organizers were instead members of a band led by four Moroccan brothers, international drug dealers, who needed to get the accomplices a residence permit in Italy. The investigation led to the execution of 23 precautionary measures against group members. A sort of parallel activity, that of the brothers Yunuus and Jaffar Mariaki, thirty years old of Lonate Pozzolo, who "exercised" with two other brothers, who remained in Morocco to deal with documents at home. The group provided the bride and groom with a service of " wedding planner," all included: publications, wedding room in the municipality, witnesses (paid 200 euros), public, restaurant, wedding party, photographs included, an apartment to be able to provide a residence, the nulla precludes from the consulate and finally also the money and the lawyer to be able to divorce: 1,500 euros for the separation service, which usually began after 40 days. In this way, the gang of fake marriages, managed in about a year of investigations to combine 33 established marriages and 20 suspects. According to the Carabinieri and the public prosecutor Francesca Word of the Public Prosecutor of Busto Arsizio, the profit was good. There was also the case of a lady who, after discovering that her 23-year-old daughter had just pocketed a fine sum for her wedding, had made contact to marry a Moroccan also. She couldn't do it just because the Carabinieri got here first. 94 people have been referred to the judicial authority - Mr President - for various reasons, and among the disputes there is the association for criminals aimed at aiding illegal immigration, but also international drug trafficking (hashish has been seized for 4 kilos in Malpensa, including 233 eggs). In some cases they also lent men of Italian nationality, for the wedding combined with Moroccan women. The problem was that the traffickers pocketed from the bridegroom (or bride) between 8 and 12,000 euros, but then they had to spend a lot between restaurant, parties, and people, so money in the cash register tended to remain few. The gang was thinking of replacing Italian women with Hungarians, less "costy," but who could still guarantee the Moroccan to be married to a community citizen. The prosecutor will appeal to the civil court, for the annulment of all the weddings, celebrated in Busto Arsizio, Lombate Pozzolo, Ferno, Milano, Torino, Vercelli and I add in who knows how many other places. Mr President, the fact on which I would like to reflect is not, however, relevant to the citizenship of one of the two Nubende figures (bridegroom or bride), but to the fact that marriage has become - in this case also complicit in the distraction of the legislator - a fraudulent way of taking possession of Italian citizenship. I turn to the government, even if I see it a little 'distracted, indeed very distracted, not to say totally absent or, better, interested in other preservations, on the phone! Here, Mr. Deputy Minister, thank you for finally turning your attention to me. I would like to say to you that it is my concern and concern that there are no counterweights in this legal provision. Unfortunately, we have become accustomed, with constitutional reform, to believing that this can be a reasoning that slips away. But the legislator's action cannot always be done in lightening. Let us think of an extreme case: the speed limits on roads are removed. Then, either you put a limiter in the engine of the cars when they leave the factory, or it is very likely that, at the first curve, some accidents will occur, even serious. In this case, by loosening the limits of the law imposed for the dissolution of the marriage bond, even providing for the dissolution of the flash of marriage, this type of celebration could become a common custom, with the Forces of order unable to chase the situation and to block the event before it occurs. Mr Deputy Minister, I have not tabled any amendments or agendas. However, I expect you, who have the honour of the Government and also offer solutions, to consider this aspect in the measure. If the burdens and counterweights are removed - which we have also criticised in the context of constitutional reform - there is a risk of creating weird systems. Marriage ties are loosened and dissolution is quick, but one cannot lose sight of the fact that a large slice of crime is taking advantage of it. With regard to these issues, we expect insertions and modifications within the draft law under consideration that guarantee citizens who contract marriage, as a bond between husband and wife, fundamental basis of the family structure and serious thing, compared to those who use this bond for civil purposes, then transforming it into criminal offence. Without this kind of counterweight, what we are going to approve is simply a loosening of the system of civil law, which will inevitably slip into further confusion, generating even in citizens the certainty that the State is no longer a serious thing, so even the marriage bond, if contracted fraudulently, ultimately does not lead to any consequence. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u10	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, we are dealing with a very sensitive issue on which we will, however, achieve, with the adoption of this measure, an objective which we have long set ourselves. Before us, others had tried to remedy the demand for acceleration of the necessary time between separation and divorce. I agree very much with what Senator Filippin said in her introductory speech, but not everything. Of course, I agree with the premise he has set, regarding the need to address these issues with great sensitivity and without ending up in personalisms or in the evaluation of personal events. It is absolutely essential to do this in dealing with this measure. And it is equally indispensable to think of the many people who manifest the need to close a life path resulting from being wrong, in order to open another one, which must not necessarily lead to marriage, but which allows us to face life and relations with our former companions with their children and with all those around them with serenity. This is certainly necessary, and that is why, for some time now, we have tried to put our hands on matter. I believe that in this parliamentary term we have done great things in this area, with the introduction of institutions for assisted negotiation and separation before the civil state officer. We must once again acknowledge to Senator Filippin that, on that occasion, he had tabled an amendment which included the content of the draft law we are debating today, which was already before the Commission but had not yet been addressed. It was precisely in that place that we agreed to bring the measure to the House in a short time, as fortunately happened. I believe that even the approval of the provision to the House, which took place almost unanimously, having been very few votes against, says a lot about how much felt is the need for the approval of this provision. I am also firmly convinced that we all have the certainty that what is provided for in this measure with regard to the shortening of time from three years to six months or, in the case of judicial separations, from three years to one year, is extremely important. It is true that I myself, like others, have signed amendments which provided for the lengthening of the time of consensual separation in the case of the presence of children. On them, however, I think we can possibly come back later - so much so that they have also been withdrawn - when this law will go into effect and we will have assessed what the consequences will be. I am sure that we are taking an extremely important step, which will allow many people - as I said just now - not to have to face the lengths of the present system, with all that it entails, even in very personal terms and interpersonal relationships, to maintain a relationship now finished and closed for a long time. Compared to the text approved by the House, we have corrected what we can call technical distortions. In addition, however - and this is the reason why I disagree with what Senator Filippin said - there is the problem of so-called direct divorce, introduced into the Justice Commission in the Senate. We must take into account the fact that our system, like many other systems mentioned in this House, provides for the need for a period of separation before access to divorce or the cessation of the civil effects of marriage. The European systems have been referred to very often in this House and, in my opinion, even a little out of proportion. In fact, the French system - for example - provides for separation, as does the German system. The English system, on the other hand, which provides for direct access to divorce, has temperaments, in the sense that divorce cannot be accessed unless it is absolutely certain that there has been a period of not less than one year of separation or, in any case, the conditions of absolute inapplicability of the continuation of marriage are established. There are therefore some temperaments made necessary by the fact that those systems are absolutely different from the Italian system. A colleague recalled that the institution of marriage in Italy is totally different and, therefore, cannot be compared with that of the other nations. Precisely because of the diversity of the Italian system, I think it is indispensable, in order to make a change of system of the institution of marriage such as that introduced in the Senate's Justice Commission, it carried out a further deepening, a somewhat tighter confrontation and the verification of the actual need to proceed to direct divorce. I have expressed my doubts about the introduction of this new method in every way and, before we talk about it, I would like to mention Spain, which is also an example of excellence in novelty and modernity. I must point out, however, that just the day before yesterday, Tuesday, I read an article in a newspaper that headlined: New Fashion, Spanish Divorce. Italians go abroad to proceed to divorce, knowing that the sentence will then be delibated and applied in Italy. However, it happened that a woman was forced to fly to Madrid because she knew nothing about her husband's request and would therefore have been divorced without even knowing the existence of a divorce procedure. This shows that it was certainly necessary to intervene on the system, but for example we do not take models totally contrary to any logic and above all to the protection of weak contractors. Beware: if you have familiarity and knowledge of everyday life, of the problems that arise during separation and divorce in our Italian system, we easily realize that most of the time we are in the presence of weak contractors. However, it has been argued that direct divorce takes place only in very particular cases, those where separation is consensual and there are no children. Well, do you have the certainty that that consent has not been manifested and given under conditions that we do not know from a contractor who often, exclusively for the protection of personal dignity and for the will not to put in place the events of his family, accepts and gives his consent to divorce or separation only for this reason, not having protection of any kind? Let's think before we go this far. Because of my profession I have often faced these issues and very often the problem that emerges is the consensus expressed without any conviction, but only on pressures of a different nature. I do not want to give examples of which the Italian courts are full right now. Yesterday, Senator Stefani spoke of an institution that would promote marriages of convenience, which is certainly one of the reasons that induce me to say that it is necessary to reflect before introducing such a revolutionary institution into our system. I believe there is a need for a reflection that leads us then to introduce safeguards for the situations represented by many senators already intervened, such as marriages of convenience or those contracted only in the awareness that you are following the Las Vegas model. Like it or not, it is precisely the model that is being introduced: a model for which we marry on Mondays and separate ourselves on Fridays, without ensuring protection for those who are exploited in that situation. And I'm talking about so-called weddings of convenience. Let's stop for a second. I am not saying that the introduction of such an institution should be radically excluded. But let us stop to reason, to determine what should be the protection for the so-called weak contractors. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] In the Commission I have allowed myself to invite my fellow Members to go to court together to attend any separation hearing, chosen by anyone, a so-called appearance hearing before the President, with which the word would be put to an end, without injury and without any reasoning, to the expression of the will of the parties, of which there is no certainty. And believe me: those who are familiar with these events know that most of the time the president of the court does not raise their heads from the desk when he listens to the manifestation of the will of the spouses. Therefore, either we have the certainty that everyone is being protected and followed in this process, or I believe that we have a duty to stop. Personally, for my education and my culture, if only I know that there can be a person who needs protection, I stop and try to give it to him. In this way, instead, by introducing the figure of direct divorce, we are removing that protection. I insist that I am not opposed to being opposed, and there are no ideological or religious reasons, as some have said: it is simply a problem of legal civilization. We have a duty to ensure protection also for those people whose families for the cases of life, for contingent matters, for events that are useless here to report - when I have done so, someone has also had the courage to ironically - are being destroyed. I repeat that it is enough to go to a court to have the chance to realize it. So let us stop and, if we really want to introduce direct divorce, let us determine what the capital and personal protection should be. But let us stop and establish them because, in doing so, we really do not serve our legal system that - thank God - has always been based on principles of great civilization, and is seen abroad as a model to follow. What we have done so far must not deceive us. We have made enormous strides in this legislature. We have introduced new and innovative institutions that will give speed. I do not agree with those who have said that there will be a long time left, and I do not agree with that. This is demonstrated by the fact that, after the approval of the Act on Assisted Trading in Palermo, a procedure was concluded in seven days. Let's take this into account. We have introduced a huge innovation. We are responding to a requirement that by now was absolutely improcrastinable: shortening the time between separation and divorce, absolutely biblical and totally useless, and I agree. Let us remember, however, that the president of the court has the obligation to verify - and it is one of the obligations that exists when we appear at the appearance hearing in order to obtain divorce and the cessation of civil effects - that there has been no resumption of coexistence during that period of three years, objectively too long. We also remember that today we are giving an answer that many have long been waiting for and we all agree that it is essential to give it. Let us not forget, however, to protect the weak, because this will be the responsibility of society. This will be rebuked. I do not understand the haste of dealing with a reform which, as I have said, is so hasty in its system, without paying attention to the consequences of the contingency; the very contingency which asked us to shorten the deadlines, bringing them to six months, and which requires us to reflect on the consequences of such a serious act that could bring aberrant effects for many if we really knew what is happening in the everyday life of separations and divorces. I strongly oppose the introduction of direct divorce as well as structured divorce. Let's just stop and think. Let's just stop and reason. I have tabled an amendment, which I will maintain if we do not find different solutions, for the deletion of paragraph 2 of Article 1 of this draft law, which introduces direct divorce, realizing the absolute detrimental consequences that could result from such a serious measure. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u12	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u13	Mr President, Senator Cucca's speech immediately allows me to get quite into the heart of the issues that have already been raised yesterday during the general debate. I am referring first of all to a first question: we are still asking for time. I would like to remind you that this text was approved by the House of Deputies in May - on 29 May last year - and so it has already been a few months. I believe that the Justice Commission has done a thoughtful job, with a discussion and deepening. As we all know, there is a lot of people waiting for us. Not by chance, we are constantly urged, with e-mails and interventions, to arrive at the approval of this reform that I, honestly, find almost an act due - this yes - of legal civilization. We know perfectly well that the prediction of a long period between separation and divorce originates from the law of 1970 (which provided for a time five years, then shortened, for divorce): it is therefore born in the historical and political framework of the time, which introduces the great revolution of divorce, but having to mediate with the discussion and confrontation in the country. I think of the whole campaign of the referendum, which - I would like to remind everyone - also represented a watershed in the history of our country. In fact, it is precisely from that referendum and its outcome that other very important reforms have arisen and an evolution of our society that may not have the same. During the 1970s and until the early 1980s, reforms were introduced which were fundamental, especially with regard to women's rights and the reform of family law. I would like to remind you of how much progress has been made. The forecast of a period of separation so long therefore arises in that climate, so much so that the legislator then intervened to modify and shorten it to three years, to rightly follow also the evolution of the country and the dynamics that are recorded in the country. It is clear to everyone that the need to arrive at even faster times for divorce is rightly a way to adapt and respond to the needs of citizens. I would like to say to Senator Cucca that Pope Francis also said that all procedures for the dissolution of marriages in front of the Sacred Rota must be streamlined. I would not want it to be appropriate for all those who made civil marriage to also make religious marriage so as to possibly enjoy faster times to get to the dissolution of marriage. And I say this not out of paradox but simply because the Church, with everything that involves the institution of marriage, tries to adapt to the reality and to meet the needs of citizens and citizens. So the legislator has to do it all the more. Some changes have been made in the Commission's work in relation to the House. I would like to point out here, also as a guarantee, that the text of the Chamber spoke during the twelve-month period following the notification of the request for separation, whereas the Commission's text specifies that the spouses have appeared. This means, among other things, that the time is longer. The introduction of the so-called immediate divorce with paragraph 2 of Article 1 is not an obligation; I would like to remind you precisely: it is a faculty, a possibility that widens the spaces for spouses who are in the very specific conditions provided for therein. These conditions provide, first of all, that there are no minors, children with disabilities and less than twenty-six years not economically self-sufficient. These are very clear and precise cases that offer spouses a chance, otherwise they can safely resort to the passage of consensual separation. So it's a faculty, a possibility, and it's certainly not just the introduction of the so-called flash divorce. I am from Rome, and I advise everyone to take a tour of the court of my city to see how separations and divorces take place. The times are very long and also in those offices it happens much more than the fact of a judge who does not raise his head: you have to go and look for the file alone and get rid of it. There is therefore a situation of discomfort, on which we will have to intervene in another way, and therefore, even in the case of access to the institution of immediate and direct divorce, in most courts the time will be long: let us not be ridiculous saying that we can divorce within a week because we know that it is absolutely not so. With regard to the examples that have been made, also with respect to the rest of Europe, beyond the fact that the institution of separation is also very questionable and that it should be regulated differently, it is necessary to reflect on the times in other countries. In Italy the time needed to get to the dissolution of the marriage is very long. From this point of view, compared to other European countries, we have - alas - once again a negative record. I would like to introduce another reasoning: do not think that a very long separation will help serenity or relieve quarrels. A long separation does not often help the younger children; indeed, the dragging in time and for too long of this condition risks, as each of us knows for our own experiences, to amplify a situation of very strong discomfort. This rule, therefore, is an indispensable help, in my opinion, for couples who have difficulties and who have chosen one of the two roads, or both together, to get to loosen their bond. Shortening the time is a help and it is to offer a direct solution like that of accessing the institute of immediate divorce to find solutions in a more serene way and in reasonable time also to manage to the best and with more tranquility a passage that however is very difficult in the life of a couple. They have been feared marriages of convenience, it has been argued that by introducing the immediate divorce we place in our order a possibility that can give rise to marriages of convenience. Well, I would like to tell Senator Cucca that the problem with our country is that there are many separations of convenience, for tax reasons or for other reasons, and the high number of separations that do not reach the divorce is very often linked to this situation. So let's not put in the field scares that do not make any sense and let's try to avoid proposing arguments, like some I heard yesterday during the general discussion, that we find in the history books when we tell of the clash that there was in the referendum campaign on the law that introduced divorce. We hear of the possibility of deleting paragraph 2 - and amendments have been tabled to that effect - in order to eliminate the institution of immediate divorce. I am very frank that the deletion would be a serious mistake, which I hope this House will not commit, because I do not think that we need to think any further. The Commission has put in place an opportunity, not an obligation. And I think shortening the time for separation and giving access to immediate divorce to some conditions is not a weakening of the institution of marriage. Once again he fears this scary guy, but he's absolutely not like that. I think most people do it out of love when they get married, because they made a choice. Then, life is what it is. But I don't think anyone's going to get married thinking about how to find a chance to get a divorce. In my view, these arguments are now outdated, as the experience of these years shows. We are trying to take a step forward from the point of view of legal civilisation and the answers that must be given to citizens. In this way, in fact, with the introduction of the short divorce, with the shortening of the times for the separation (twelve months, six months) and with the access to the immediate divorce, the possibility is given to resolve situations of conflict that more drag and more hurt precisely the weakest elements within the marriage. I think, for example, of minors. I am also surprised because, only a few months ago, without hurting, the possibility of going before a municipal employee to dissolve the marriage with a simple communication to the public prosecutor was introduced with the assisted negotiation. All this talk of protecting and guaranteeing the weakest parties then did not feel. The draft law under consideration provides for divorce to be brought before a judge and for certain conditions to be met. It's not an obligation, but it's an option, and so I think there's all the protection. I therefore very much hope that this bill will go on. I have heard that the deletion of paragraph 2 would give the House the opportunity to approve the measure definitively. Well, there have been other changes to the text of the House and that would still give the other branch of Parliament the opportunity to intervene again. So let's not hide behind a finger. I think that today we have the opportunity to approve the text as it is and to make a real leap forward by passing a measure that is a due act for the many citizens who have been waiting for it for years. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u14	Senator Formigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this week's timetable sees the debate on very sensitive and important issues such as adoption, custody, today's short divorce. These are issues that all of us need to pay more attention to than we need to examine every measure. This is because they are issues that affect people's lives and have an impact on society's life and can have it for good or bad. These are themes that can also be strongly divisive for our Italian society because they have significant ethical implications. Yesterday, on the very delicate subject of entrusting this House has managed to do what I believe can be called a small masterpiece with the contribution of everyone. I must thank my colleague from the Democratic Party who, yesterday, wisely considered withdrawing her own amendment which could lead to a different, divisive outcome, at the time of the vote by the Assembly and could give a divisive sign within the Italian society. We have avoided this with the help of everyone, with the attention that I feel is also necessary in this case to take charge of the other people's reasons. This same attitude, in my humble opinion, we must have it in examining the measure on the subject of divorce. We need to know that talking about divorce means talking about one of the difficult moments in the life of the couple and the people. I believe that when we talk about divorce we have to recognize that it is a defeat of the person: we cannot think that divorce is something indifferent or zero balance compared to the life balance that a person can and must do. In yesterday's debate a colleague asked her rhetorically whether we are in a secular state or an ethical state: by wisely concluding that we are in a secular state she gave up the question, as if the secularity of the State, faced with a dilemma and a dual possibility, would coincide in choosing always the alternative way to a religious vision of existence. I believe that this reasoning is profoundly wrong. Laicity cannot mean indifference. The great thinkers who over the last centuries have taught us the value of secularism would turn in the tomb to feel the concept of secular state compared to that of indifferent state. The question is another. In a secular view of the State, do we consider marriage a value, it makes sense, it is a greater value for a person's life or not? As I believe we cannot but conclude that marriage is something positive and it is a choice for an increase in life, for a more positive hope of life, we cannot - I repeat - believe that the breakup of any marriage is a painful defeat. It may happen that you have to face it and certainly the legislator must be careful and make sure that this painful moment can be experienced with the least effort possible. I therefore believe that the draft law before us inevitably and wisely proposes to alleviate the suffering of those who are forced to do so, to this choice. It is right to think of alleviating suffering, but it would be intolerable to enact a law that would reduce the value of marriage to zero and say that contracting a marriage is like drinking a glass of water. It is one of those gestures that are mechanically and mechanically made in life can be done or not; they can be done and not be destroyed. Colleagues, I am referring to that paragraph 2 of Article 1, which was inserted during the examination in the Commission of the Senate with respect to the text of the House, which had achieved an acceptable balance. The Group of which I am honored to be part, the New Right Centre, in the Chamber had voted positively for this measure, with a few small exceptions, which I respect and understand, but accepting to express its consent on a text of law that represented a vision of high compromise and above all that safeguarded the positive message to society. Marriage is a value, the more valuable children are. When marriage is enriched by the presence of children, all the more must be taken into account if these children can be in a situation of difficulty or because they are minor or because they suffer from disabilities, but even a marriage without children and without children in difficulty is a value that must be safeguarded. That is why this paragraph inserted - let me say this - at the last moment, in limine mortis, without proper discussion and evaluation, constitutes a stumbling block to the possibility that even on this draft law can be achieved a broad convergence by this House, a stumbling block therefore to the possibility of proposing to our citizens by the Senate, with the contribution of the House, an improved law compared to the previous one, in the sense that it takes note and takes charge of the change of society over these years and introduces something that we consider inevitable. Let me talk about another term. I said that marriage, even from the point of view of a secular vision of society, of the person and of the State, we can only consider it a value. Associated with this term, we must convey the conviction of the Senate and Parliament that marrying always involves taking responsibility. It is an assumption of responsibility in the face of oneself, the other and society. But this responsibility would be reduced to zero; it would be wiped out and annihilated by the possibility of an immediate cancellation. This is what we are talking about: introducing the possibility of an immediate cancellation would be a zero reduction in that assumption of responsibility. There would no longer be any responsibility. I come back to say: getting married is like drinking a glass of water; today you drink it, tomorrow not; it has no consequence. We cannot accept this absolute trivialization of marriage. We must make sure to convey the awareness that marriage and this assumption of responsibility, we prepare ourselves, knowing that we assume a responsibility that cannot be reduced to zero in the blink of an eye, with a simple blink of an eye. Responsibility seems to me, from this point of view, to be the other key word that must be contained in a bill like this, if we bring it back to the wisdom that the House of Deputies presented to us. And then my humble invitation to all colleagues and political forces, some of whom in the Commission have felt that they should give their consent and even carry on this paragraph 2 of Article 1, is that there may be a second thought. The People's Area Group has tabled an amendment that deletes the rule. I think I know that, within the various groups, there are colleagues - even this morning we have witnessed this - who are asking questions or who have already expressed their negativity with respect to the maintenance of paragraph 2 of Article 1. I hope that the reflection of these days - wisely it has been thought to shift the vote to the week venture - can favor this rethinking and this deepening and that therefore we can go, in the forms provided for by the Rules, to a cancellation of this paragraph. Certainly - I say it now - our Group could not give consent to this law, if paragraph 2 were maintained. So, Mr President, I would like to conclude by making one final point. We can only reiterate, when we are about to conclude the discussion of this measure and when we examine the rules that allow an anticipation of the dissolution of the marriage bond, that our gaze remains fixed on the priority of the protection of the family and its aims. Of course, we are discussing something different: this is not a measure that wants to promote the family. We would, however, lack a comprehensive vision if we did not say that Parliament's orientation is nevertheless to be positively oriented towards promoting and recognising the value of the family, promoting measures of support and help, through fiscal policies, assistance and conciliation, in order to favour women in particular and to allow a greater number of Italian women to reconcile their status as spouses, mothers, in any case members of the family and strong support of the family, with the possibility of developing their occupational or professional pensions. In this overall vision, it can come out of our reflection these days, fellow senators, a law that conveys a positive message to Italian society. I hope that this will happen; I am convinced that the Senate, in all its members, has the opportunity to take this initiative forward, and I hope so. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and the Senators Liuzzi and Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u16	We greet the students and teachers of the Liceo "Giovanni Francesco Porporato" in Pinerolo, in the province of Turin, who are following our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since May 2014 this bill has been approved in the House and lies beached. After a time immemorial finally arrives in the Chamber, with great pleasure, among other things, because the 5 Star Movement, together with colleagues of the PD Lumia, Lo Giudice and others (justly you have to recognize it), has been busy to be scheduled in the Chamber, despite the heavy opposition that it had from one part of Parliament, also in the Commission. It has been shown, for the umpteenth time, that on civil rights and sensitive issues can also be built different majorities, without the government falling. Why is that? This is because it is necessary to fill or reduce, if possible, the abyss that divides the legislation of our country from society, a society that is completely different from the image that I have heard projected by some colleagues between yesterday and this morning. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I must remind you that in the decree-law on the reform of the civil process we have even signed an amendment of the PD which goes in this direction. That didn't pass either. If there weren't the 5 Star Movement, we wouldn't be here today discussing this very important bill. There are gods, however, because we are faced with a certain pride, mostly inappropriate, a sphere that concerns the freedom of people. When I hear from some colleagues that the day this bill is finally passed, there will be a wave of irresponsibility, I feel really bad and I feel I am in the midst of people in bad faith. That's a lie. Meanwhile, the world goes on beyond what you think. The gays live together, despite Mr Lepri and Mrs Fattorini making other proposals, such as closing them in the ghetto, and despite the fact that colleagues from the New Right Centre abhor this idea. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] People fall in love; people change partners and relationships. Society is like this, and it will not be a law that holds people in chains. In fact, it is so: there are laws that keep people chained and do so in spite of a sphere of freedom that would not have to be affected. When I hear that the bill's approval will follow a wave of irresponsibility or that people need some time to understand, I wonder if you have spoken to all these people, whether you have gone to their home and whether you intend to regulate other aspects of the affective relationship as well. Maybe you intend to raise the blankets and regulate the first night of a couple's wedding! We're at this point! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You're trying to cage a society with obsolete superstructures that needed to be adapted. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] Senator Giovanardi, I didn't interrupt you, but I'll call you to see when I can get divorced and when I can get married. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I will call Mr Caliendo. On the contrary, I recommend it to all citizens: phone Mr Caliendo and Mr Formigoni. But not to know where to vacation, but to know when you can get married or when you can get rid of a relationship that may have affected your existence. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's what you're doing, gentlemen. You are giving judgments in a sphere that concerns the intimacy of people, without being saved, and here we strongly reaffirm it, the weak parts. Even on the assumption of direct divorce, in fact, there are no weak parties, as it is foreseen in a clear context. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do you know why so many people are separated? Not because they're meditating if they're wrong or not. When a person arrives at such a choice, perhaps he has made a path of suffering; and on this you legislate, you pave, as with linear cuts because history must be the same for everyone. Do you know why so many people stay separated for so long? Costa. These are expensive procedures. You have devastated justice! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do you know who this country works for? For the rich. If on Google, instead of other words, you typed "short divorce," you would know about the organized trips to Romania, divorce there and then register the divorce in Italy. This country rewards the rich and chains the poor: on this we can give examples concerning many other issues, such as heterologous fertilization. Really in some days it makes everyone want to emigrate! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Laughter]] We have relegated common sense to an accessory sphere: it can be used or not. I've heard of an ethical state! In the meantime, at least a few of our proposals could have been voted on on the ethical state, such as the ban on those condemned to be elected in Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , before looking under the blankets or in the hearts of the people, to know what they live. If you want to build an ethical state, if someone doesn't object to Hegel's ideas, you could build it consistently. Don't come morale to me, citizen outside, while you can do anything in here. By the way, I think there are many divorced colleagues. Would you have liked someone to go and tell Mr Casini, who is not present today, that he should have behaved in one way or another, why should the rules be taken as such? I would be ashamed to go out here, to tell people this; and in fact I fought for us to be here today, to talk about this subject. It's something we've been waiting for years. It was December 1970 when the divorce was introduced and I was just born, I was six months old. Well, it's been 45 years! I have heard other objections: it has been said that the short divorce breaks down families. Colleagues, you have voted the Fornero law, the fiscal compact, the balance of the budget, that is, a rule for which first you pay the banks and then, if you advance some money, you invest in social! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then who broke Italian families? Wasn't it the ECB? Has it not been your vows on certain measures? Was it not an economic policy of some kind or is it a short divorce? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Who are you kidding? We're sick of this shit! And now don't morale me because I said the word "bollocks." [[Comments of Senators Falanga and Giovanardi.]] It has been said that instant divorce is far from Italian culture. What culture? What schools? Schools fall apart: what culture are we building? Whenever we talk about the rights of homosexuals or feminicide, we approve a legend and do not intervene on the real problems. By the way, some legends have not even approved them, such as the one on homophobia, which has been bogged down for the usual problems within the majority: if you want to talk about this too. [[Applause from Senator Montevecchi]] It is a majority that was really inconceivable until a few years ago, but that is obviously possible and that, on the basis of prejudices, sinks some very useful measures to limit the damage and also sinks the cultural evolution of this country. We have seen, however, that on the occasion of so many measures, as on feminicide, we make a legend that is inserted in a dishomogeneous decree, in which a thousand other norms are added, which are useless. So let us calm our consciences and go to sleep quietly, but let us not act on the real causes of the problems. Let's talk about the majority: the homophobia law is blocked by an amendment of Civic Choice and PD, and has been bogged down. With regard to the draft law on civil unions, a praise to the colleagues who are carrying it forward, like Mrs Cirinna: this law, however, is also firm. Now there are other hypotheses. I really wonder: all over Europe we are thinking about other ways, why is it not possible in Italy? In Italy it is necessary to maintain the facade, even if then society goes on. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The company went a long way: Wake up! The Las Vegas model, dear gentlemen, is the result of political choices that do not concern the short divorce, but perhaps concern the operators of the slot machines, which you are continuing to finance. The billion-dollar discounts you made to gambling managers in Italy: that's the Las Vegas model. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You want people to be more responsible? Let's call off marriage and divorce, then. I have seen an amendment, which seems to me to be from Senator Gasparri, which provides for premarital training. Is that yours, President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I will speak when I do not chair this House and I will explain my amendments. I was just asking him not to talk nonsense to the citizens out here. Well, at first I laughed, because I told myself that we also missed that now we have to take the premarital course to get married in the Commune, that is, that we have to explain to two adult people who are either unable to understand and want, and then they need you - and God let me out of this situation - or they are able to understand and will, and then they have the freedom to decide with whom and when to marry. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] At first I was outraged, but then I thought about it well, Mr President, and I said that if this limits marriages, perhaps it is better, because if there is an irresponsible people who marry and do this damage, then you are right: let us not marry, let us avoid it, so that the problem is solved even upstream. Those who say that marriage has existed for millennia say a banality, because it is obvious that since time immemorial people live together, in two or even in more than two, but I recommend some reading of history (there is no Senator Gotor, who could definitely endorse my statement): Georges Duby, a very high profile French historian, wrote about marriage that it was formalized as it is today in the thirteenth century for patrimonial reasons. So we're not gonna blow each other in this House about the couple's crisis.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u19	Please moderate your language: first I let it run, but now I beg you first of all to come to the conclusion, because you have one minute left, and then to do it with appropriate language. I see that you only wake up in front of these little things, while in front of the real things you make only a thousand fine speeches. Thank you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Language is important. AIROLA (M5S). But that's what she says! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There are also students who follow our work and who applaud, to whom you do not set a good example. Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u20	Mr President, I will be brief because it is a promise that I made to all those who wish to see this short divorce measure finally and quickly come to its conclusion. I'd just like to make a few remarks about so many things I've heard, and I'm teaching before I'm a senator. The first is related to the vision of society that has been given in the course of this debate, with a strong rigidity in the association or disassociation of the concept of couple and family, in the relationship between parents and children, in the association between feelings of love and formalization of these feelings, and also in the simplification, perhaps at times instrumental, between the aggregate nuclei of our society and the real ability to make community. So much so that, as Senator De Petris said, the Church could even override us to the left, and can do so precisely because it is much more rooted in the true folds of society and sees the true suffering of all those who may not have a representation even a little 'ideological. Technically, the Commission has done an important job, and here I would also like to break a spear in favour of the so viciously perfect bicameralism, which has allowed us to solve problems which are not just problems, also thanks to the harmony between the two rapporteurs, Senator Filippin and the then Senator Alberti Casellati, who have certainly put in place a practical technical experience, which has allowed us to overcome a possible defect of constitutionality of the rule in relation to the jurisdiction of the judge and to the time limits for taking effect. This technical experience has also made it possible to simplify and clarify patrimonial aspects, which are certainly not indifferent in the life and everyday life of people and has also pushed a little further the capacity of the Senate, through the introduction of direct divorce that, I do not stop pointing out, happens where it is consensual, to look at a society that is perhaps preceding us. As a teacher I tell you that when we talk about family, making it coincide forcefully with the stereotyped image of the family that has been given here, we forget that today the family, in fact, is a very fluid entity, in which I see, from the teacher's point of view, boys who have more than one family, with brothers who come from second marriages and for whom the priority is the serenity of these new nuclei, of these new communities that we cannot pretend to condition and cut out through old laws. If anything, we must give this reality the certainty of a series of safeguards and rights. This is the first thing we must do, always bearing in mind that a secular state - and this is the question we must ask ourselves - is good for ethics. In my opinion, yes, it does very well because it values a fundamental aspect that is that of the responsibility of the individual and of the free choice that really allows to build the sense of responsibility, to pass it on to the children and perhaps, finally, to reverberate it, through the civil rights that we are dealing with now, in the relationship with the public. We have a great need for an ethical attitude in everything, an ethical attitude that we can strengthen and consolidate by recalling first of all the citizen to his individual responsibility; that great value that perhaps in Protestant countries is much more rooted by being part of their history and that the Church today is trying to teach us, although here we have heard observations that would suggest that the attitude of the Church is different, much more conservative than in reality the Church incarnate in society. Out of respect for the brevity of which I said at the beginning, I shall end my speech in order to give the floor to my colleagues. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lepri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u22	Mr President, today - or probably next Tuesday - we are going to vote on a draft law which will greatly reduce the time between separation and divorce. In this sense there is a broad sharing by the entire Parliament, or almost everything, of this indication; it is shared by our party, and also by those who, like me, strongly believe in the value of the family founded on marriage. I, too, recognize the inappropriate length of the period between separation and divorce provided for in the current law. But if it is absurd the therapeutic bitterness in maintaining so long times, where a family is not able to continue, just as not acceptable is the desire to completely eliminate the period of separation: in fact, it is still currently foreseen in the text of law, except for paragraph 2 of Article 1, where the possibility of a so-called lightning divorce is considered, without any period of separation. I think that Italian legislation has many limitations, that in many cases it is rich in redundancy and repetitions, but that it also has some advantages: the institute of separation is among those that are able to read the complexity and the fatigue of the events of Italians. On the other hand, the institution of separation starts from the recognition of the value of marriage, but it allows that phase of deepening, of decanting that is absolutely important to make sure that the choice is really matured and convinced. In the face of objections, it has been said that in many cases the choice of separation has already matured, and that therefore this period of reflection and deepening would be useless. I want to say that in many cases we are faced with an impulsive choice, where hatred and resentment prevail for certainly serious facts, which damage the dignity, pride and coherence of people: it can be understandable, it certainly is, a choice that leads to the request for separation. But precisely because not a few of these facts happen by impulse, we must manage these episodes, these choices without frenzy, but also other issues: I am referring above all to the patrimonial problems, but also to the psychological traumas that are not infrequently determined by those choices. In particular, if it is really inevitable to make children suffer terribly, as almost always happens (with traumas that lead them to be frequently neurotic and irrascible), at least let's do it with times such as to accompany and reduce these their sufferings, as we proposed with our amendment that brings to twelve months the time between separation and divorce in the case of minor children. Divorce certainly stifles, however it changes, insidious relations not only between spouses, but also between spouses and children, between relatives, between grandparents and grandchildren, between friends. The question that some of us then asked, and which was followed by the tabling of amendments, is: what does the State do to prepare spouses for marriage, to prevent separation and divorce at some point? The answer is: little or nothing. From this point of view, I would like to recall what the then dictator - let us call him - of the Soviet Union, Andropov, decided to start in the face of the rampage of separations in 1983. He decided that they should be promoted (I say this in a special way to those who have made laughter on these proposals) courses of education to conjugality, hoping the spread of clubs of young couples to help them overcome the difficulties that inevitably man and woman encounter in their coexistence. As a good materialist he had identified the spread of marital conflicts and divorces (as if the year before they had even reached the figure of one million) three great evils: the breakdown of social relationships (the affectively disturbed people create discomfort in the community), the demographic decline (the couples do not procreate when they do not feel affectively safe) and the decrease in production (it makes themselves less in work when they are affectively in crisis). So Andropov didn't talk about values, he didn't refer to the doctrine of some church, he simply took note of the negative consequences in individuals and in society resulting from separations and divorces. That is why amendments have been tabled, which we have then considered withdrawing: precisely because we think it is important to promote the mediation of conflicts and to help prepare the people who are going to marry with respect to the duties and rights they will have to observe. In conclusion, also because much has been said and I do not want to abuse the attention of my fellow Members, I think we have to ask ourselves how long the rhetoric of the ethical state will prevent the state from really promoting pacts and relationships based on emotional stability. We today, as legislators, take note of the need to reduce the time between separation and divorce. However, the appeal I make to Parliament - in this sense we will move and move - is not to cut off such an important and far-sighted principle as the institution of separation. I am therefore opposed to the so-called direct divorce, provided for in paragraph 2 of Article 1 of the provision. Together, I hope that this debate of ours, certainly not here, can be an opportunity to go beyond this ethical bipolarism that we still record in these hours; that therefore, with serenity, we can start, in line with the constitutional dictation, policies of support and promotion of the family that for too many years and still today are expected. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u23	Senator Albertini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u24	Mr President, until death separates you: this is the saying, the hope that hovers under the naves of the cathedrals or even, more modestly, on the roof of a church near an alpine lake: in the places, that is, where religious marriage is celebrated, which considers this institution surviving the physical life of human beings and continued in eternity, with the notion of sacrament, to what for us, here, in civil life, is only, even if of great importance, an act that transforms the will of two people into a family constituted according to the laws of the State. However, even in the most secular dimension, in the most ordinary and most current of our daily life, the hope that is made when a family is formed and the wishes that are made go in this direction. That decision, that act of will to transform one's feelings into a civil institution, with the often declared and intentional will to constitute the nucleus of civilization, the cell of our community (the family, procreation), even in this more modest scenario compared to the liturgical solemnity of the Church, is nevertheless considered, from this point of view, destined, at least in the desires of those who carry it out, to be until death separates this bond. The reality is unfortunately different from our desires. Desires are powerful, but not omnipotent and often happens - in the life of all of us it has happened, perhaps not in our own personal, but of those who are close to us - that marriages do not last all their lives, that love ends and that the couple no longer hold their bonds together. So, here's the chance to change the register and dissolve the civil effects of marriage. It has been since the 1970s that this reality exists in our country. Today we face, I believe with rationality and balance (we will then see what adjustments we can bring to the text that is submitted to us), the way of favoring the possibility that, while the relationship of couple and love between spouses is lacking, the institution of the family, perhaps another family, different from the one that has been dissolved with the end of a love, which can instead develop with a new gesture and a new act. Often, couples who are waiting for divorce from their previous marriage to be able to marry have perhaps generated children while they are in legal separation and we, with the acceleration of this process, with the other aspects of the legislation at our examination described by other colleagues and with the simplification of procedures, are providing them with this possibility to rebuild a new family in such a way that, if the couple ends, it can continue, instead, the possibility of rebuilding a bond and reforming a bond. This scenario, however, in its simplification not in its cancellation, cannot fail to take into account the balance of two values: on the one hand there are the desires of the spouses, adults and consenting, who take note of what they have decided to do, of the lack of their bond and the desire to form another family; on the other hand there is the right of the weak party. This is often overlooked when it comes to civil unions and other aspects relating to relations between spouses and the like. Children are entitled, however, to protection and protection even if the spouses decide to separate. It was noted by the rapporteur in her speech that no child, normally, wants parents to separate themselves, but often can live through the conflict that exists, living together with a couple of parents who are constantly fighting and who cannot stand themselves, as something painful. True, this can happen. But even if this scenario is not entirely excluded from our horizon, I believe it must be addressed with reflection, with seriousness, with a deepening and a necessary will to balance the aforementioned rights and the relationship that parents have with their children. In fact, you can resign from any assignment. For example - I am indicating the place where the President of the Republic sits - you can resign as President of the Republic. Not far from here, the Pope also resigned from a lifelong assignment. You can resign, much more prosaically, as a husband and wife. You can't resign from father and mother. Even if this can happen in reality, it does not happen with the blessing of the law and with the consent of the State. Ethical or secular, however, is a value to the fact that the parent, for his responsibility, has to provide for the children. That is why we are in favour of this simplification, as I say on behalf of the Group to which I belong. We are in favour of this abbreviation of the times, once an adult and consenting couple has decided to change the register and to form another family (this is why we usually ask for the dissolution of the previous marriage), but we want, by legal civilization, to protect the weak, the minor children or even the people who, despite having reached the highest age, are in poor conditions. That is why we want to introduce this legislation and we refer to what has already been described by some of our colleagues, to the scenario as we have received it from the House. We refer to the fact that when we are in the presence of problems relating to children, the compensation between a responsible and legitimate choice, which we want to promote for the reasons I have described, and the responsibility to continue to be a father and a mother are protected. Then a space for reflection, an attempt at tacit conciliation, a moment when the spouses look closely at their lives, at the horizon before them, especially in relation to their children, well we want this to remain as a point of reflection and as a reference, as a scale of values between the will, the desires of the spouses and the rights of the children. That is why we are all in favour of this legislative intervention, but as a group we have signed certain amendments which refer to this aspect. I repeat: you can resign from any role and from any assignment, but it is not possible that the State, which has in reference to the values of our juridical civilization, allows an absolutely unsympathetic lightness for which parents can forget their duties towards the children they have brought into the world. We would therefore also like those who proposed this simplification, by deleting the separation and allowing a divorce as quickly as a marriage, to reflect on the diversity and priority between the legitimate desire of the spouses and, once again, the rights of the weak and of the children. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u25	Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u26	Mr President, a great deal has been said over these long years that separate us not only from the divorce law, but also from the confirmed referendum of the divorce law. A statement I think is very important: divorce represented the real watershed of the modernization of our country. I believe that this is true, because the law on divorce has called into question the ineluctability of marriage by opposing it to the freedom and responsibility of people in the free choice to contract a pact; a pact that has public characteristics and therefore has legal and civil consequences, and not only of a human and sentimental character: I think that we must start from this. Italy, since then, has changed a lot and the family has changed a lot, but the fragility of the bonds that we live today does not depend on marriage. The fragility of ties, alas, depends on many and many factors and - I want to say to Senator Airola - not only on the economic factor, because really money is not everything: of course, they are an important part of life, but they are not everything. The fragility of the bonds lies also in the social organization, in the difficulty of relationships, and when we talk about family - personally I prefer to talk about family to the plural, about families, because there is no longer a single social model of family - we must know that (certainly) we are talking about a value, protected and sanctioned by the Constitution, but also about emotional ties that can become a hell, because the family are also the beatings, it is also the minors who attend the continuous quarrels, it is also the economic blackmails for which it is so difficult for many people to separate. The family is all this, it's so good but it can also become a hell and a compulsion. That is why I believe that the legislator must have the necessary distance, a distance that I call secularism, which allows us not to enter into legislation with tense ideologies or religions. Certainly, the legislator cannot be indifferent to the consequences that his work will entail in social life. That is why I believe that in this case we are not talking about an ethical state, it is not exactly the case that we are talking about an ethical state that is opposed to a secular state: we are talking about something else. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We are talking about how to establish a freedom that, however, is never separated from responsibility. There is no absolute freedom, there is a freedom that is bound by the existence of other people and therefore the principle of responsibility is what will allow us to go beyond the ideological debate and enter into the dimension of respect for the choice of people. People can be uninformed, uneducated, disoriented, but they are not stupid and in our country they are not victims of who knows what media, political or religious pressure. People in our country are able to choose. So it is this respect, which I believe should be, that is the basis of the importance of approving the short divorce measure. Anyone who has read, traveled, has had relations in this field knows perfectly well that separation is a defeat. I agree with Senator Formigoni, and it doesn't happen often, I would like to clarify it, precisely because of secularity. It's true. But it is the defeat of what? It is not the defeat of a model, it is the defeat of an individual project, of a project of couple, it is the defeat of an intimacy that fails, compared to which the legislator can only take a step back, respect the motivations and protect those who are weak: the children have been said. In fact, I wonder why all those services born a few years ago in support of separated or divorced couples have not been maintained. Senator Albertini remembers him because he was mayor. We fought a small battle to maintain the service I am about to tell you, which then disappeared during his second term (I have to say this out of honesty). I was a city councilwoman and in Milan there was a service called GeA (parents still). Because it is evident that husband and wife are for a phase of life if one separates, but parents are forever. And we must also consider whether to make children: how many times have we witnessed unwanted, unwanted children, children fruit of common sense, "what others say if we don't do the children" with then parents who haven't taken care of them. Well, parents stay forever. Well, I am not only in favour of the measure that we approved yesterday and which I welcome with great satisfaction, but I hope that we can continue on this matter by working at all levels because this would really be a principle to be included in the Constitution of our country. However, the protection of the child must be mentioned in concrete facts and principles. And I come to the theme of principles. Yesterday it was said that one violates the principle that has resisted as a bulwark of millennia: the principle of marriage. Well, if he resisted millennia, it means something doesn't work, because resisting millennia means not being in tune with the evolution of society and the world. And it does not depend on divorce the fact that marriage breaks down: it depends on other factors that we must investigate and resolve, without naturally entering into the intimacy of the couple. But there are social factors and consequences that we cannot fail to look at. Therefore, to the ethics of the principle that "pulls up walls" I believe that we must counter the ethics of responsibility that the legislator must take to the full. Now, there is a point - of course - about the times. I think that this Parliament is expressing a very high debate on the need to shorten the deadlines, because we believe - I think in a broadly united way - that a requirement that is present in the country has matured and that the legislator is able to "master" (I am not an expert on the subject). That's to say you don't make any leaps into the void. Who is concerned by this is concerned by an element that does not exist in reality: the five years that have become three and now become twelve months or six months if there is no litigation are more than reasonable times to get a divorce if we have respect for people and their choices. That empty time between separation and divorce is a time full of fear, uncertainty, blackmail, lawyers that cost: it is a time that does not allow people to choose to change their lives, to open a new project of life even emotional. They are traumatic blocks: the longer the time the more it can be filled by the ghosts of failure. I think that we are broadly in agreement on this and I think that this is an extraordinary and very important fact, given that it is one of the very few draft laws of parliamentary origin in this parliamentary term. This means that Parliament can fully exercise its capacity, power and ability to be united. I wonder, then, in the form of a question: why do we not favour what unites us and think about what divides us, not abolishing it but perhaps giving it a parallel path? If the issue of immediate divorce is divisive, then let us think about it: let us give priority to this extraordinary step forward in which everyone can identify himself and which the Italian people will enjoy (because seeing a united Parliament, especially in these issues, is pleased), and let us take a moment, not to discuss, not not to decide, but to deepen issues that are not ethical, but legal, with implications on which perhaps it is worth thinking. I don't go into technical matters, because I'm not a jurist. Bringing citizens closer to politics and institutions is a huge responsibility that we have on our shoulders. We can divide on many things, but not on the respect and responsibility of human beings in our country. That's also why we're here. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u28	Mr President, I believe that this Parliament, in order to use aphorism, should not teach the cat to meow, should not teach or by law arrange how to be a parent. Nature has already thought about it. We've already thought about ten million evolutions of our DNA. There are natural atavistic reflexes that cause that for each parent, when he has the possibility of having a child, in whatever way he had it, even if he did not want it, he is the subject of those mutations that Darwin has well expressed. There's no need for laws. Likewise, there is no need for laws to say that love is not eternal. It was once said that it was, because the average life was forty-fifty years. Of course, since we used to get married and had little chance of communication and movement compared to today, the family was more stable. Now love is not eternal and, therefore, it is normal that there are differences within a life. I am a lay socialist, a follower of Loris Fortuna and Marco Pannella, who rightly wanted that divorce we now boast about and the abortion law, which we believe to be of great standing. These laws have not been made as usual, in the sense that it is necessary to divorce or abort. When a person is born, it's not that we did hospitals because we want to send it in there. You are born and made to stay in good health; therefore normal is good health and is a suitable way of life. If then, during the journey, there are problems, then the State, with the laws, prepares hospitals, clinics and health service, to cure a pathology and bring it back to normal. So it seems obvious to me that, when it is no longer possible to keep a couple together, because they married or had a cohabitation (for those who speak to you it is the same thing, because the rights and duties of reciprocity must be guaranteed to the cohabitation), it is not possible that the State obliges a couple by law to be together, if there are no longer the conditions to stay together. Children are different. The law does not serve; there is already DNA that protects them. Even there, of course, the law serves only in those rare cases where there are pathologies that intervene to modify what nature has given us. If there are other problems, that is, diseases, these must be treated from a health point of view and guaranteed from a legislative point of view. So parents are not by law, but, if God wills, you are by nature; nature has thought of it. Of course, we are well aware that it is necessary, in a modern society, to be able to resolve conflicts quickly enough. It is a torture to force a couple who no longer consider themselves to be such. I do not share what some colleagues have said about premarital courses. These are not to teach how children are made, but to illustrate - in a country where ignorance is dominating, because it goes too fast to be able to transpose the inputs - what are the legislative devices that allow and guarantee to put on a family, to have children and to be able to give them a proper education. It is therefore a question of helping the family and supporting it with economic aid if they are no longer there. This is important. Those who say no to premarital courses should consider that these are also training and that training and education are the most important thing that is lacking in Italy. We all know from economic studies that raising the level of culture by one year of schooling is equivalent to raising GDP by one point per year. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I must continue to point out that this measure is necessary and has been necessary for several years and for a long time. Thanks to it we are uniform to the other European countries; in fact, we are often European according to the conveniences. It is certain that we need a law like this to equate ourselves with Europe. We cannot make a law, as we are doing in the Justice Commission, where we bring the penalties and prescriptions to fifty years, because in Europe this does not work and they tell us that we are wrong. We must not be reformists, lay people or pro-Europeans according to interests and conveniences. From a genetic point of view, when you are born a man, you are a man. If then a person wants to change sex or has different impulses from those of departure given by nature, it is right that it is protected and guaranteed, but it is not born to become transgender. One is born a man and remains a man; the woman remains a woman. There are exceptions, which I absolutely do not abjure. I am among the most tolerant, indeed my culture is stratollerous, but these are exceptions that, of course, we must protect and guarantee. I turn to Senator Lumia, because I also guarantee the political de facto couple between Senators Lumia and Airola, which has formed today. It is unnatural, but I protect it, even if it is an unnatural, anti-European, anti-laic and anti-democratic political couple. However, there are also those who think, in the 21st century, that the earth is not round and we also stand for it. That reality, therefore, is also to be protected and not to be abjured, but one can obviously not share it. My colleague, Mrs De Biasi, used to say: "without going into intimacy." Senator Airola said you can't go under the covers. You're right. Then why do we let Boccassini? It's useless for you to come here and make false demagogy. We allow such behavior to a judge who spent four million euros of Italians and then come here to tell jokes. Come on, settle down! [[Applause from the Divine Senator]] Because then nature leads you to tell the truth, but this must be sustained. We are still an ethical state because we make ethical laws. If we were to make truly secular and reformist laws, these Freudian slippers would not escape them, because it really emerges that reality is quite different. Colleagues, with a view to a context of simplification and deburocratization, certainly the short divorce provision is a fundamental part of it. The reduction of the time needed to stop the effects of a marriage at the end, where the spouses consent, should therefore be welcomed. Simplifying must mean making life easier for citizens, including by promoting relations between them and established powers. In the case of an agreement between spouses who have decided to terminate their married life, if there are no particular grounds for impediment, there is no reason not to facilitate divorce. Doing so potentially means facilitating any marriages after divorce. It is not true that then they will not have children, because they are born children from the second and the third marriage. As they say, one Pope died and another made. You can't force two conscious people to be slaves to something that doesn't work anymore between them. That the family is a primary value to guarantee and protect as much as possible, is not in question. But you have to do it with natural interventions, because you get married to have children and make the marriage last. You are born to be healthy, but if you get sick you must of course cure yourself. The concept of family is based on values. If these fail, what sense do years of forced ties and exclusively legal connotation take? The less laws we approve in this area, the better. As we have already said, we cannot make a law to teach the cat to meow, because he will do it alone, without needing us. If two conscious people realize that these values are no longer shared, perhaps even by one of them, it does not make any sense, neither from the logical point of view nor from the legislative point of view, to force them to draw years, waiting for no miracle is known. If the final result remains, however, the obtaining of the cessation of marriage bonds, there is no reason to lengthen an agony that risks only bringing greater suffering. It is also necessary, especially on such issues, to engage in what is happening in the rest of Europe, especially in those countries which, despite their shortcomings, have always put themselves at the forefront of ethical issues and civil rights. So, ladies and gentlemen, we needed to take action. It was necessary to have already done so. We're late but, as the old saying says, it's never too late. When it comes to Europe and to stick to established practices throughout Europe, we cannot do it in an alternate way. If action is taken on civil rights, it must also be done on justice. I see, however, that this truly ethical Parliament does not intervene on justice. Perhaps in the twenty years that we abjured and fought, it was better than now, at least there was no torture there now; there were special laws, but those were declared and we fought them. Now we do as the ostrich, we put our heads under the sand and we continue to torture and vex a people and force our entrepreneurs to invest more and more abroad. [[Applause from Senators Formigoni and Zuffada.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u29	We greet a representative of the UCIIM, the National Association of teachers, managers, educators and trainers, of the Belpasso section, in the province of Catania, which is following our work. We also greet the students and teachers of the Istituto tecnico commerciale (Technical Trade Institute) Rino Molari in Santarcangelo di Romagna, in the province of Rimini. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u30	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u31	Mr President, we have heard a little rise in the tone of the debate in this House today. Instead, we should feel that there are different feelings and views on how to be together on these issues. It is not to blame those who consider marriage indissoluble, nor is it to blame those who prefer a free coexistence; what matters is that the State - and we, as legislator - must contemplate and respect the different positions. 11:37 a.m. (Follow DIVINE). As a League, we have tried to sum up the issues we are dealing with and the need to leave freedom of conscience has emerged. We are talking about the most important issues, which touch the person deeper. We sometimes end up in a discipline that is no longer legal, but legal-religious. At this point it is good to give a minimum of tuning, a minimum of freedom of expression to each representative, who has a direct popular mandate. What we're going to do is a little bit of a revisiting - not even so big, if you like - of the 1970 divorce law. Then the path chosen was this: a separation of the spouses was expected and, after a certain period of time, civilized marriage could have been dissolved. At that time it was established that such a period of time should be three years. Today we are basically going to discuss whether or not a change should be made and how long it should be. This text speaks of one year, in case of judicial separation, or even six months, if it is agreed by both spouses. Even if there are no interests of minors to protect, i.e. if the couple does not have children, there can be immediate divorce, without even passing through the phase of separation, when the two spouses agree jointly to achieve this type of choice. We could be extremely objective and say that, if the spouses agree, it can be fully positive to face a less costly path, because, accelerating all times and even skipping the passage of separation, since - alas - defenders and lawyers are always involved, if the number of hearings and the course of the dispute are prolonged, the costs also rise. In this respect, we could say that a logical positivity of this measure leads to it. However, we would also like to highlight the inherent risks to this type of accelerated measure. Marriage lawyers report that, even if in rare cases, some marriage lawsuits are eventually recomposed: in the more than three years of the separation decided by two spouses, something happens, perhaps some good advice is accepted by the spouses and in some cases, even if not in the majority, the family nucleus is recomposing. Catholic matrimonialists will always support, by force of things, the opportunity to give a reasonable time to reach the reunion of the family nucleus. The original law of 1970, as the whole structure is composed, has basically this purpose, that of trying to save the marriage; just think that, even if decided the way of separation, the president of the court must feel, first separately and then jointly the two spouses to try, in limine litis, yet another attempt at reconciliation. The same law, therefore, starts from the assumption that you can separate but that you try until the end to save the family nucleus. The second risk inherent in this rule that we want to highlight is that if we think that in six months we can separate ourselves, that is, that - I am allowed this simplification - twice a year we can marry and separate, we must be careful about marriages of convenience. These are already there, in rare cases they are discovered, but we have to ask ourselves whether we should introduce some caution, which is currently lacking in the law. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] Just think of how many people come in a direct, legal or illegal way in Italy and do not enjoy citizenship, if I did not decorate at least ten years of stay, and that in order to obtain it they could resort to a false marriage, in this case also quickly dissolved. If there are criminal associations in this country that are sometimes called "cartoleries" and can obtain false invoices in an extremely easy way, if there are really unscrupulous people like the scafists, organizations that do not have problems managing the trafficking of human beings, let alone how easily they could organize themselves to get an easy citizenship once these subjects enter the country. The Forces of Order are already monitoring the situation, but with this rule you really give a tool that you can lend to be used improperly. We would therefore like to see proper attention paid to these two issues during the examination of the amendments in order to avoid that these rules, which do not fundamentally alter the original system of the 1970 law, but which simplify procedures and shorten time, do not result in much more difficult matters for the aspects I have just listed. As members of the North League, we call the Assembly's attention to a third issue, that of children. The whole of the amending proposal that we have tabled is intended to put the weakest element at the centre of our attention. Two couples without children can be separated with some ease, but the problems that emerge in the presence of children must be addressed with the utmost attention. We have seen that, even if there is a rule that provides for shared custody, the Italian courts almost never proceed in this regard. Therefore, on the one hand we have the science that says one thing, on the other the jurisprudence that makes an exactly opposite path. Personally, I have read important international research - not research of little importance but done on important samples of more than 180,000 young people and therefore more than scientifically reliable - from which it emerges that in the case of shared foster care, where children, even in the blackberries of a separation or divorce, can spend equal time with both parents, the benefits are enormous: greater self-esteem, higher school performance, less risk of falling into bullying, drugs, alcohol and so on. Therefore, for mental and physical health it is appropriate that these children remain, even after the separation of parents, as much time as possible with both parents. We have introduced this principle as one of the conditions in the case of marriages with children: if you don't get to just 50 percent, at least one third of the time the child has to spend it with the less involved parent. Then both of them must provide for the formation of their children. In fact, we also foresee an educational plan shared by the two parents, which will then have to be followed by the children, as well as a plan to share the expenses. Generally, once entrusted to the child, almost always to the mother, the figure of the father is taken as the "Bancomat" that must provide for the maintenance of the family. The maintenance of children, as our tax law says, must take place in proportion to the contributory abilities of one or the other spouse and must not be a single spouse to decide how to spend the amount allocated to the children, but both - a kind of joint account - must provide responsibly for the maintenance and livelihood of the children. I talked about science that lists all the benefits of spending time with the two parents, however, if we go to read the judgments of our courts these say exactly the opposite. I won't read them to you, but tight, the Italian judiciary says: Children should not be treated as parcels of mail and thus tossed from one parent to another. They use exactly the expression, which is repeated in the sentences, "Postal packages", thus supporting exactly the opposite of what science affirms, in the documents at our disposal, which claim that children benefit more from the possibility of spending equal time with both parents, not postal packages therefore. Even so, and we have put forward an amending proposal in this regard, it is assumed that the house may be divided, in which both parents can live separately, leaving the child essentially in the house where he was born; still, if this were not possible, think of the alternation of the two parents in the family home, always leaving the child at the center of all the attentions. This is our philosophy, our approach, which we will clarify in detail at the time when the amendments are being presented. I have said that on the subject under discussion the League has left some freedom of conscience, as these are issues that affect people in depth. Those who speak do so in a personal capacity. I must say that if, pushing to the maximum, we arrived at this easy, immediate divorce (theoretically immediately after a marriage we could also divorce, according to this bill), we would also struggle to distinguish marriage from an engagement, because between getting married and being engaged, all in all, would change little if a few days later we can also decide to divorce. At this point, because this week we talked about adoptability and models that are neither comparable nor overlapping, but of reference, and we were very careful not to let Islamic institutions such as kafala enter the Italian legal system, we are careful because in this case too we are introducing a foreign order to ours. In fact, if it is so easy to separate and divorce, it is enough to introduce a few lines and, if the Islamic order enters the Italian one, it will be enough to say a few times to one's wife and the marriage will be dissolved. We do not believe that this should be the way to go and we would also like to maintain, while respecting positions, a minimum of linearity and, if we believe it, even some fixed points - I do not know whether to define a value - with respect to marriage, which is not a coexistence or an engagement and cannot be dissolved with a handbeat. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is appropriate to entrust my thoughts to this debate in this House, because we are dealing with a very sensitive issue in a week during which, as has already been pointed out by some Members, perhaps for even random reasons, very sensitive issues have been discussed in this House concerning the custody of children and the ratification of international treaties which also had an impact on minors, with institutions belonging to other cultures and religions which are not compatible with our constitutional values. Today we are debating, and in the next sessions, we will vote on a measure that concerns the family, the marriage and which also has repercussions on the custody of minors. Moreover, this dialectic comes from families that unfortunately fail to continue in their project. It is therefore a very important week and I am personally satisfied that in the last hours the story of adoptions to singles (today the press has taken up the topic) has been averted, because it could be a sort of Trojan horse to circumvent issues that we have been discussing for a long time in the Senate concerning civil unions, those between homosexual people, the possibility that there can be adoptions in those contexts. I am personally opposed to this, and yesterday the Senate, with that debate in which our Group too has contributed a great deal, has determined the setting of some stakes that I hope will be kept in mind when we discuss different but in some way related issues in the coming days. Similarly, the theme of the destiny of minors has been addressed with clarification, which our Group has also urged, concerning kafala or institutions of Islamic religion that, if introduced through the ratification of international treaties in our order, would have involved the obligation of religious conversions, which we instead do not impose on anyone in our state that is secular, even if there is a prevailing Catholic feeling. I say this coming to the subject, today under discussion, of the so-called short divorce, because I do not deal with this issue from a confessional point of view. I remember personally (I was very young) the 1974 election campaign on the referendum repealing the 1970 law establishing divorce. It was a very passionate debate in which religious, ethical and political aspects were confused. There was also a battle of a political nature, because I remember that there was then a center-right front, which did not exist politically speaking, but which went to be realized because the DC, led by Fanfani, did a battle; the political right, although led by a political leader who was personally separated, chose to support the battle repealist. As we know, that referendum for repeal was not won and won, with a majority even quite clear, the confirmation of the law. Today someone even dated in that referendum the start of a process of modernization. This could be discussed for a long time. We were in the post-Sixty-eight phase. Today no one would question the institution of divorce, but then what is modernization of a nation will be another time to discuss it. What happened next? There are magistrates here today, Members of Parliament, lawyers who are certainly better educated than me, but I remember that legislation at the time set the time limit for separation in five years. What happened next? It was said: "Very well, let's introduce the divorce." However, even the advocates of divorce, in passing the law in 1970, agreed that there would be a period of time before the end of a marriage was established. For this reason, the first draft of the law provided for a period of five years of separation. We have then intervened several times and this term has been reduced; at the moment it seems to me that it is two years, but the initial interventions had brought it to three years; I quote from memory, but there has been a historical tendency of Italian legislation to reduce the time of separation and, in fact, to simplify the use of divorce, which has become less complicated. After that, it was said that this time was too long - of this we are discussing - and it had to be reduced. The procedures were also simplified, even removing some from the full sovereignty of the State (which in the end takes note of it), also giving way, through forms of decisions that take place outside the courtrooms, to simplify the divorce. Personally, I have doubts about that. Will it be possible to express doubts? I am not saying that we should return to a confessional discourse; I am speaking in terms of the Constitution and Italian law. I do not say to go back to before 1970, when there was no law on divorce; I do not even say to return to the five years of separation, that is, all things that were in Italy in the post-war period of the Republican Constitution in force. So, it wasn't that there was obscurantism. Now it is said that the term must be shortened. I have doubts and therefore - I say this quite clearly - I will not vote on the law as a whole. Besides, we have some weird judgment in this country. He who makes this speech is a obscurantist. First someone was accused of making ethical calls. I don't put it on the ethical level, but on the organization of society. I'd like to know who has the right to make moral calls. For example, in recent weeks I have been very impressed - you may wonder what this has to do with, but it has to do with understanding how you react - the total silence of Italian gay associations in the face of the fact that in the Islamic State many gays are taken to the top floor of the palaces - you have seen those images - and thrown into the void. That's the idea he has of al-Baghdadi homosexuals. These are countries - I am not talking about al-Baghdadi, but in general - with which we must then ratify and deal with other issues. I have not read a statement - I repeat: a statement - from a homosexual association. I've never seen him. After that, if any of us say it's against gay marriage, he's charged with homophobia or something. First, someone mentioned the slowdown in the examination of the homophobia bill. There is concern that expressing an opinion of a certain kind can lead to being pursued by those who then, when tragic situations such as the one I have mentioned happen, do not express themselves. I have not seen a specific reaction and I regret this. The crimes committed in the Islamic State are numerous: we have seen Jordanian pilots burned and people of various nationalities slaughtered. This further phenomenon of people of different sexual orientation thrown from the top of the palaces adds horror to the horror of the abject and intolerable motivation of this attitude. I am saying that we must not give some people the right to set up stakes so that if one defends the family he is almost a reprobate. I have tabled amendments to this measure which provide for attempts at conciliation, because I believe that the divorce in our legal system is in any case a failure of a project of life that the State in some way then organizes. If this were not the case, in fact, there would be no marriage in the civil order of the State; reformed, modified by divorce, of which the times were shortened, is however present in the order. I do not say that people must marry, not be separated or have to wait all those years: those who are not convinced of making stable life choices do not marry. There is no obligation to marry. There are various forms of cohabitation and de facto unions that are discussed whether they should be regulated (I personally think it is strange that they should be regulated for homosexuals and not for heterosexuals, but this is being discussed in the Justice Commission). So people may not marry or ask, as they are doing, union in fact (even if I do not see a great demand in Italy because then, in the end, those who want to give stability to the bond leaving aside the religious aspects reserved for those who want to choose them, can access civil marriage that I believe is the most appropriate instrument to give stability and certainty, not only moral and affective but also legal, because from marriage derive a whole series of obligations and rights, for this it exists in our order). Marriage, in fact, is not a kind of punishment and those who do not want to contract it do not. Then, and on this point I would like to draw the attention of this House, I know that there are different views in my Group, too, which I respect. We have discussed this in these hours and we will talk about it because we are debating it. Regarding paragraph 2 of Article 1, relating to the so-called immediate separation, which I would call the "spray divorce " (allow me to use this image, because it nebulizes marriage), I am not favorable but there are illustrious colleagues, and they will certainly say so, who think it is feasible because it happens before the judge, there are a number of conditions: there must be no minor children, children of age who are unable or have a serious disability, and children under the age of twenty-six must be economically self-sufficient. I have read, I see, I observe and I know that the presence of the judge guarantees a more reliable, more supervised and controlled public procedure (anticipating the reasons that other colleagues will support). I have some doubts, and this will be granted to me secularly, because I believe that in some situations - and here are the amendments on conciliation procedures - instinctive choices could be made. If we had immediate separation, I believe that so many situations would be broken up more quickly. It is true that paragraph 2 of Article 1 provides for a series of conditions and therefore there is no risk of seeing children suddenly abandoned on the road by two people who have argued: this cannot happen even in accordance with Article 1, paragraph 2, as it came out of the Commission, this must be said in order to avoid a social alarm. I think, however, that in many cases - it will have happened to everyone - when there is a conflict in a couple, the next day someone could decide to divorce and then, maybe after a week, a month or six months could reconsider, and this even if the children are over twenty-six years old and even if there are no children, because a couple, even if they could not have children or did not want them, is a socially relevant factor that must be protected and safeguarded. What would the institution of marriage do in civil law other than to protect a form of social aggregation from which then derive - or at least should - a number of fiscal, regulatory, housing granting factors and so on? It should be a family - I say "should" because, unfortunately, many times it is not in our legal system - the object of particular safeguards and safeguards. Then, if there are children, maybe disabled people, even in the allocation of housing, these factors will be taken into account, but in any case a family, even without children, is still a family, in fact, many are fighting to say that everything is family in our reality. We have doubts about this regarding the various forms of cohabitation and the different sexual orientations. However, even a couple who have no children is certainly a family according to our order and trying to safeguard it is not reactionary obscurantism. There aren't any salaphites here that mess up society. Those, if anything, we introduce them with the Conventions and maybe someone could use the Italian order instrumentally, taking advantage of our generosity and welcome. In fact, the instrument that is likely to be introduced, instant divorce (I go to the judge and get divorce), could also be used with unscrupulousness for choices of other nature, so I think we should reflect on this point. There has also been a reflection in today's debate. General discussions rarely serve to convince one another but must be done, not only for the rituality of the rules that Parliament and the Constitution impose on us, but also because they remain in the act and remain in the political and institutional debate. Moreover, even if the classrooms in the general discussions are not packed, we are talking among ourselves that we have the responsibility of legislators. So I appreciated the doubts that have emerged from many quarters. I have tabled a number of amendments concerning attempts at conciliation and then, with regard to paragraph 2, I agree with the deletions. In particular, I have signed Senator Malan's deleterious amendment, and I appreciate the positions of other groups. I hope that the reflection that is taking place also within the groups that have the greatest numbers in this parliamentary term, and therefore, democratically, the greater possibility of weighing on the decisions of this House - this is democracy - can make the considerations that I wanted to express prevail for my conscience, for my responsibility as legislator and for a secular idea, even though I am a Catholic, as a family that I want to defend in Parliament. I may win, I may lose, but I am here to represent a valuable and moral choice that, for me, counts more than other matters. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u33	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will devote a few minutes to supporting a reasoning and a reform objective that the socialists have been pursuing for decades now. It was 2003 when, in the Chamber of Deputies, at my first signature, we presented a bill to overcome the institution of legal separation in cases of consensuality and the absence of minors. Twelve years have passed, and perhaps even more, and we continue to maintain in our system an institution that frankly becomes difficult to understand. I would like my colleagues to explain to me why there should be a part of Italian citizens who impose compulsory behaviour on the other side, who show instead the willingness, in this succumbing vision, and see the Italian State leave the citizens to organize themselves according to principles of self-determination that have nothing to do with the behaviour and interests of persons outside a certain situation. We often criticize societies, organizations and institutions from other countries that impose extreme behavior and bind in all its parts the behavior of citizens. But if we extend the concept, I believe that even in the vision that we are trying to maintain in our country there is this kind of approach. I also wonder why great efforts are being made to lighten the workload of our civil courts and, instead, we maintain a process that nothing takes away and nothing adds to the will of the citizens, maintaining a bureaucratization of relations and decision-making processes that has no deterrent function but to represent a waste of time and a cost. Wills do not change unless there are substantial conditions over time. Changes in understanding are determined by changes in interests, wills and objectives. And then the time - one time, by the way, neither long nor short - does not add anything, except to keep in our order, in this and in other cases, procedures that probably have other objectives, such as saving ideological principles and the will to preserve areas of economic interest of professional activities and bureaucracies. We run the risk - indeed the risk is now established - of having the company later than the State and the legal systems. We have concrete situations that evolve and strongly anticipate formal situations. I must say that I appreciate the calmness with which Mr Lepri has dealt with this issue, albeit from another point of view. I would, however, like to ask my colleague, and others who have shown willingness to compare, why we continue to maintain in our system an institution that has no impact but to extend situations of potential litigation. It is an institution that does not, however, produce - statistics from this point of view support this thesis - substantial changes in the behaviour of the parties called upon to make a decision. I agree with the idea of possibly adding a further period of time from six to twelve months in the case of the presence of minors, of the non availability of a part and, therefore, of non-consensuality on the objective of divorce; as well as in cases where there may be elements of criticality that can derive from a whole series of factors that however, in our current procedure (in the cases of presence of non-available or weak third parties), is safeguarded. I therefore wonder why we still want to maintain this length of time, this bureaucratism, in the face of a reform that we have already done, because we have already introduced very simplified procedures in the reform of the civil process. Here we simply want to save a theoretical principle, that is, we cannot move from marriage to divorce without a phase of further bureaucratization, which is that of legal separation. The protection of the weak parties, in the legislation we are about to adopt, remains. We are blowing the principle of legal separation - I say this to Mr Lepri - where it is of no use but to lengthen the time, to distribute quotas of economy (even if residual) to strong subjects - these yes - and to feed bureaucracies which, on the contrary, should be concerned with the efficiency of our system and to respond more quickly to the demands of the citizens. I am not going to go any further because we have already wasted too much time. I would just like to make one final and final point: the text before the House today is the one which has been dismissed by the Senate Justice Commission, which we share and will support and which, in the face of positions that are not understandable - I say this frankly - we are not prepared to amend. [[Applause from Senator Longo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u35	Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u36	Madam President, today's draft law actually serves to make the time needed to obtain divorce more European. There was a wide-ranging debate between yesterday and today in which the long stages provided for in Law No 898 of 1970 were also examined. In the first phase, that of separation, the couple must turn to the court; once the judgment of separation and after three years from the same, a second judgment, the one for divorce, must be promoted. Only when the divorce sentence has passed into judgment - and often after many years - is marriage dissolved. It is therefore a question of dealing with two judgments, two judgments and lawyers to be paid twice. On the other hand, if we are faced with consensual separation, it takes at least five years. If a couple needs to get to judgment because there's no agreement, it can take even ten years. It is an endless time, not at all in tune with the times of life and the choices of the couple. Couples are forced to face the difficulty, at times, of maintaining strongly deteriorated relationships, which only hurt and do not help to rebuild new choices of autonomous life and couple. Once again, as we tried to do yesterday on the occasion of the Act on Trusts, Parliament must be able to adapt legislation to the reality and to a historical, social and cultural context of our country which is very different from that of 40 years ago. The path planned then, the result of a long, difficult and bitter discussion not only in Parliament but in the country, is no longer necessary to act as a deterrent to the dissolution of marriage. In short, then it was thought that a useful period of time was necessary to verify the modalities and times for eventual reconciliations. The couples who make the choice to separate - a choice that is not only of liberation, as I have heard in some interventions, but also of great suffering - do not do it on the wave of emotion or as a shortcut to resolve conflict situations, as the CEI has repeatedly pointed out in the statements of its highest offices. In this case - for example - data and numbers come to the rescue: only two percent of the couples that separate, with time, reconcile and return to live together. In short, the data are important, if we think that the rates of separation and divorce in continuous growth since 1995 have a setback of 2012. For every thousand marriages there are 311 separations and 174 divorces. This bill, in the end, does not invent anything, because it intervenes to fill a delay in politics. And we should have the intellectual honesty to say that, for years now, this bill has been presented in Parliament to reduce the time of divorce, but it is constantly being sunk down. Then, today, during this parliamentary term and with this majority characterized by the reformist action of the government faster than in recent years, we would like to see confirmed that reformative action fast, which instead we understand, suddenly from today's debate, being at risk of being blocked. The key element of the text is the reduction from three years to one from the beginning of the separation for the definitive dissolution of the marriage, with a time that is reduced to six months in the case of consensual dissolution. We would like to stress that we consider the terminology used very wrong, perhaps because it is imposed by the modes of communication fast and too busy to look for slogans that can act as real Bignami. It's not a short divorce understood as a quick divorce. This is a less long divorce, because the current legislation provides for too long and complicated times. It is not a matter of short divorce or lightning, an expression that seems to make explicit reference to an irrational and impulsive choice of the couple or a single component, with consequent necessity on the part of the State to protect paternalistically and give time for a more thoughtful reflection. The reality is that couples who come to the decision to separate, after months and years of weighting and too long terms, risk exasperating conflicts, inducing feelings of revenge with heavy relapses over time. It is precisely in the long run that children end up suffering more, for the period of uncertainty and suspension that makes everyone more insecure, in both consensual and, all the more, legal struggle. We are all aware that the supreme interest of minors is untouchable and sacred. Marriage is a free choice, but it cannot become an indissoluble bond. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I ask colleagues on my right to lower the volume of their conversations, because the speaker is unable to make the speech. PETRAGLIA (Misto-SEL). Marriage is a free choice, but it cannot become an indissoluble bond, a theme that even the constituents posed themselves when they wrote the Constitution. It cannot become a prison if there is less esteem, love and affection. It's a strong bond for everyone. In this debate, however, I have heard strange distinctions. All those who choose to marry wish to see their marriage last for the rest of their lives. It is not that only those who marry in church have this hope, while others do not or some do so in a carefree way. Then, let us avoid talking about the dissolution of the family - for example - because divorce was also conceived and introduced to protect the family, understood as social formation and as the right of children and parents to live their family dimension beyond the bond of marriage. Parents can and must continue to care for their children and be parents: it is the protection of the right to parenthood and a serene childhood, that is, the right to the family we spoke about yesterday. And then divorce becomes an important protection for children, who stop living in a climate often of cold war, if all goes well, or in a climate of great conflicts and sometimes violence. The chronicle tells us - here we have often talked about it - about a long series of feminicides linked to the long time to obtain the divorce. 70 percent of the violence against women and children is committed in the name of the family's sacredness. Then, at least today, let us spare ourselves self-righteous concerns. It would be a great injustice not to give right and adequate answers to all of this. It is no coincidence that, according to a research of the Eurispes of May 2014, 84 percent of Italians declare themselves in favour of legislation that can shorten the times even in Italy, as proposed by this bill. The changes made to the Senate in the Commission do not only appear technical to us, but they appear to be very important changes. We consider paragraph 2 of Article 1, which provides precisely for the dissolution and termination of the civil effects of marriage, which can be requested by both spouses even in the absence of legal separation, even if there are certain requirements (they have been widely present), as an important step forward. It is an intervention that goes in the right direction, that of overcoming the double track (first separation and then divorce), which is a peculiarly Italian track. It is a question of introducing in Italy what already exists in other European and non-European countries. It is also good to have foreseen, in the bill, the dissolution of the communion of property between husband and wife, at the time when the president of the court authorizes the spouses to live separately. We are always reminded in this House of the need to adapt to Europe, but this cannot only apply to the economy. On this point - for example - we are halfway through the very imperfect path of European harmonisation. Over 8,000 couples, over the last six years, have relied on law firms outside Italy, which have promoted the possibility of using the most favourable foreign legislation in the Netherlands, Belgium or Great Britain. The data have been extensively illustrated: just rent an apartment for a few months, have temporary residence and get a divorce. Already today some law firms are struggling to point out that even when the new law comes into force, divorce times will continue to be shorter abroad. The so-called tourism of rights is a sad primacy, all of our country, which - to be honest - is not only about divorce. Abortion, therapeutic abortion, assisted procreation, euthanasia are all halved rights: halved by prejudices that become law and that may not even correspond to the real convictions and behaviors that take place in society. We in the Left Ecology and Freedom believe that more Europe is needed in Italy and that greater tax harmonisation, economic harmonisation, but also rights, is urgently needed to reduce the excess of paternalism present in our legislation and to consider citizens as fully responsible and full rights holders. I am thinking precisely of that paternalism of the State that interferes with the autonomy of the person and that limits the full exercise of rights. Paternalism on the part of the State is to foresee long times for divorce, as if the State were asking: have you thought about it well? Don't you want to think about it a little bit longer, maybe things will work out? One ignores how slowly such a decision matures over time. And to expect long divorce times is completely in contradiction with the very short time to get married: it takes eight days from the date of the publications. Yet, getting married is a choice of freedom, which must be fully recognized to those who want to exercise it, as well as that of divorce. But getting married is also, in this country, a choice of freedom only for those who can dispose of it and it is incomprehensible - for example - so that we continue to deny this free choice to all homosexual couples who have been asking for it for years. We hear in the various speeches of a probable deletion of paragraph 2 of Article 1, because it is explained that making further changes to the Senate to this law would mean no longer approving the law, since this could be upset in the House. Then we need to ask ourselves a few questions, very clearly. But isn't there a broad and transversal majority on this act? In the House, the majority do not have certain numbers, to which are surely added the votes of Left Ecology and Freedom and other Groups? Or is the problem once again within this majority and within the Democratic Party? We need to be clear about this. In Italy important civil conquests have been blocked for years by hypocritical cross vetoes - as you have all said - just like today's debate, which brings the country back to obscurantist periods, blocking the recognition of individual rights and freedoms, from assisted procreation to the adoptions of singles - and yesterday we wrote a bad page - to homosexual and unmarried couples, at the end of their lives. Only all ethical themes that, instead, would need a true reformative action and a secular vision, because the secularity of the State is a value and a reference point for all. The secular state protects freedom of choice and not restrictions, and is of no use to anyone. But above all I would like to remind you that secularism protects believers and non-believers, and it is not a partisan value. And then that's the only way we can help the country and its citizens grow. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u37	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u38	Madam President, first of all, I would like to stress that Parliament has found broad convergence on these issues. And as he did yesterday, he also found it today on a particularly difficult and difficult subject: the so-called easy divorce (so called). With the work in the Commission and then in this House we have managed to draw up a measure which has then found a very wide convergence. And even the text we are talking about today, in fact, in the Commission, in principle has found convergence, so much so that the Group of the People's Area has tabled three amendments. I repeat three amendments and not three thousand. Basically, for three months - the time at which this measure was being discussed - we discussed whether or not it was the case, as everyone agreed to shorten the time, that a drastic abbreviation (from three years to one year in case of conflict, and from three years to six months in case of consent) could be reduced a little less in the presence of minor children. This was the matter of contending, until, suddenly, at the last second, was introduced, with an amendment, what I call the marriage on trial. In fact, a marriage celebrated on Sunday, which can lead, after the first night of marriage, to the request for divorce the next day, is a kind of strengthened engagement, which implies a whole series of immediate consequences or in time, as other colleagues of different political forces (from left to the League) have emphasized, as abuses and trafficking that can be devised, in a scam way, to reach all other ends. On the other hand, do we want to think about fundamental issues, which would require a minimum of reflection in the Commission to understand what we are doing? While we are debating, all the old legislation on separations and divorces is still in force. There is still Article 151 of the Civil Code, which provides that the person can separate and divorce only for objective causes or if there is an unbearable situation for the children. Then we know that, in practice, in Italy, for divorce to take place, it is enough for one of them to say that he is tired of being married. In the meantime, however, Article 151 is still in force. Then we approved the reform regarding the possibility of being assisted by lawyers, simplifying the procedures, and then the reform according to which, if there are no children and after a month in which rethinking is possible, we can separate ourselves in front of the mayor. So, we have also admitted this new instrument. I asked the competent Commission offices to have a synoptic picture for us, to understand exactly what we are doing. So, where do we want to get to, and what kind of certainty do we give the citizen? Europe is always referred to in the debate. I have studied some of the issues and I do not know if colleagues know that in England - I say: England - if there are no objective reasons proven, such as adultery, abandonment of the marital roof or cruelty, for which it is possible to divorce immediately, it is necessary, if there are children, to undergo a compulsory preventive family mediation, which can last from nine to twenty-seven months, without which one cannot divorce. I repeat, I'm talking about England. When there are children, then, it is not enough for one of the couple to say that they are tired and want to get divorced. If the objective situations I have mentioned above do not arise, those figures which, even in our debate, have been evoked by many colleagues and which are missing in Italy, will be activated. The President of the Health Commission referred to the then mayor Albertini, when she was city councilwoman in Milan, to recall that the institutions that should have served to mediate and to avoid negative effects on children have been eliminated. The idea that when there are children, especially children, there is a form of parental responsibility, even in the short process - six months, a year or a year and a half - that separates separation from divorce, avoids a "little" problem that no one is talking about. In Italy there are 800,000 couples already divorced, who spend their lives arguing about "after divorce": about the home, the heritage and the care of their children. We all know that divorce serves to marry again and, therefore, it is not just a problem of simplifying procedures to get to divorce very quickly. After divorce, in fact, you can marry again, thus finding yourself for the second or third time in the same situation. When he was ironic about the great protagonists of Hollywood movies, like Liz Taylor, who married nine times in her life, it impressed us. If the mechanism we set in motion is such that we can marry on Sundays and divorce the following Monday, it becomes statistically possible to marry several times, if you have money, availability and attitude, having of course children from several different people. How much this is then in tune with a society that suffers phenomena of unbundling and presents situations in which children suffer these realities, is another discourse. Anyone with a legislative responsibility can imagine that the more society breaks down, the more problems there are and the more problems things become. Mrs Cirinna mentioned, as in a war bulletin, the great victory of Spain for the fact that divorces are being multiplied: after amending the legislation, divorces have exploded. It does not seem to me that a person responsible can rejoice at an enormous increase in disintegration and family failures. Maybe that's a pathology that should be treated. Let us reason for a moment then, colleagues. Let me give you a figure: in 75 of the cases women are asking for separation, while divorce is asked, in 60 percent of the cases, by men. Why is there such a great disparity? Since the woman is the weak part to protect, with separation, and therefore until divorce, she has the right to maintain the standard of living she had during marriage and, therefore, there is the problem of the home and of the foster care of her children. On the other hand, it is men who have every interest in asking for a divorce, but to arrive at an unclear situation. For example, precisely because of the evolution of society, I wonder how we intend to regulate the institutions of reversibility - it is a great problem - and succession. Do you have more right to reversibility than the divorced wife or perhaps the one who later lives with the person from whom the first wife divorced for 20 years? These are the arguments that we have made and that President Palma has repeatedly raised, with regard to succession and reversibility. Our proposal, therefore, is very simple: we delete the absolute novelty of the last second, which has improvised the institute of trial marriage, and we postpone the theme, together with the others I have just mentioned, of the overall rationalization of the institution of divorce, separation, the treatment of children and the need for institutions that can in the preventive sense educate to a social function of marriage. The matter is not trivial. As some colleagues have said, including Senator Gasparri, getting married is not an obligation in our order. Nobody's forced to get married. A reform was approved, which I signed myself when I was in the government, so children born inside or outside marriage, in any situation, have exactly the same rights. So, we've overcome the last inconsistencies from the point of view of our children. When you decide to conclude a marriage, however, you cannot understand it - as I have already said - as an enhanced engagement. Among other things, even today in the Civil Code sanctions are provided for in the event of a break in the marriage promise, i.e. an engagement, such as the obligation to return gifts or compensation for damage in the event that the engagement has involved expenses in view of marriage. If, therefore, even the engagement is still regulated in a timely manner, marriage becomes something even more binding. There has been talk of trivialization, but it is not that one can return from the honeymoon and say that he made an attempt but that he did not find himself well and, therefore, ask to divorce. The image that would eventually be given of marriage is precisely that: an attempt that, if it goes well, well; otherwise the remedy is immediate, but it is not so. The problem of scams has been raised, but there are situations, precisely because of the current mobility (the problem of caregivers, the elderly and perhaps those who are deceived or who want to throw years of marriage into the air, thinking of getting divorced immediately and free, because it has the suggestion of marrying another woman), in which today this too could give rise, if divorce is immediate, if there are no second thoughts, if there is no time for reflection and support for the weaker part, to a whole series of situations that the legislator should foresee. For all the reasons I have said and taking into account the fact that on two occasions (on the so-called easy divorce and on the trusts) there has been essentially unanimity in this House, I believe that once the obstacle of marriage on trial inserted at the last second has been removed, there is a substantial consensus on the rest. For our part, however, we ask for a shorter abbreviation of the times in the presence of children. But this can be overcome if we in the Commission identify institutions that can accompany couples, through mediation, in a situation that enables them to face responsibility and to make separation the least traumatic possible for their children. The distances, therefore, are very small. If this remains the case, it is unfortunately clear that this House will break down dramatically. But this will happen on an issue, with respect to the overall framework and to the broad sharing of the reform, which leads to a division that I consider absolutely useless. Let us take a great step forward shared, and also on our part. The only difference, which emerged during the examination of the measure in the Commission (Senator Zavoli has just returned to the Chamber and, therefore, I repeat it before proceeding to the conclusion), was that we accepted the reduction from three years to six months, when there was consent, and from three years to one year, when there was disagreement between the two spouses; provided, however, in the presence of children, the abbreviation was from three years - not to six months - to twelve months for the consensual separation, and from three years to eighteen months in case of conflict. This would have led to a drastic reduction in time, but at the same time it would have given a signal that, in the presence of children, we need some extra caution. We are absolutely willing to identify this caution through other guarantee institutions for the weak and for the children and to remove the part concerning the marriage in trial, with all the problems it entails, and to bring it to the Commission. We could also extend it by providing for an overall review of the divorce and separation institute, its articles in the civil code, the problem of reversibility and succession, bringing to the eyes of citizens, lawyers and operators an organic reform understandable to the public.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u39	We welcome the students of the Istituto Tecnico Industriale Stato (State Technical Institute of Industry) Antonio Meucci in Florence, today visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u40	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u41	Madam President, I will certainly take less of the time allocated to me, because in this speech I will confine myself to clarifying my personal point of view on certain aspects, which in part also corresponds to the opinion of the Group to which I belong, the 5 Star Movement. We are not surprised that the debate that has taken place so far inevitably represented ideological, preconceived views. This is not surprising and, in the end, in my opinion, is also acceptable, because in this House positions are represented, beyond the qualifications we can give them, which are reflected in part by the electorate and, therefore, by our fellow citizens. However, we cannot escape from a criticism - always according to the pragmatic approach we are trying to maintain - of what seems to be a great hypocrisy, which will probably be evident next week, in this House, when we are called to vote on this bill. I am referring to the great difficulty of dealing with the thorny subject of the so-called immediate divorce, a rule contained in paragraph 2 of Article 1, which allows us to stop - let us remind those who should be listening to the outside world - the civil effects of marriage on certain and rather strict conditions. These conditions are: the presence of the consent of both spouses, for which a spouse cannot choose to divorce himself; an recourse to joint signature to be presented before the judicial authority, for which it goes before a magistrate, and there is no possibility, even if it was of concern, of addressing a civil status officer (as happened in another measure approved by Parliament a few weeks ago); limitation of the so-called immediate divorce, which causes the civil effects of marriage to cease even without a period of separation, to situations of absence of minor children, of children of age who are unable or severely handicapped, of children up to twenty-six years economically not self-sufficient. We move, therefore, in an area of application that - in our opinion - protects the freedom of spouses to have the civil effects of marriage from their contract in a form of guarantee and respect of the legal norms, rights and duties assumed at the time of marriage and, above all, to protect the possible offspring. We warn that this subject - certainly sensitive, and we understand this very well - could lead next week to a request for the deletion of the paragraph in question. In fact, we use the term 'abstract' in order not to use a more brutal term, which would essentially amount to deletion. In fact, if we remove this paragraph from the text, it is difficult for Parliament in this parliamentary term, no matter how long it lasts, to put its hand on this particular point. Perhaps the term excerpt also conceals a little hypocrisy. From a political point of view we fully understand the difficulty of dealing with matters which are so sensitive and also relevant to the internal forum of each of us. I would like to announce that on this point our parliamentary group has decided to maintain the freedom of vote and conscience: if the second 2 of Article 1 is put to the vote, each of us will vote on it conscientiously, because it is a point not contained in our programme, which was presented before our entry into Parliament, and on which we have not had time to consult the members of the network; therefore, recognizing the ethical value of the rule, we will vote freely. However, as far as the proposal for a deletion is concerned, we frankly believe that it would be a missed opportunity for Parliament to consider such a sensitive issue, so we do not encourage the imposition of the obligation not to allow the Senate to vote freely on the rule itself. A few words should then be spent on those who still fear even the mere reduction of the terms of separation (which, as we know, with the bill under consideration will be increased to 12 months in case of judicial separation and to six months in case of consensual separation) in order to obtain the cessation of the civil effects of marriage. Even today we hear that this undermines the matrimonial institution, the foundation of society, the continuous reference to Article 29 of the Constitution. Each of us can only recognize the ontological value of the family in today's society, as in that of yesterday and also in that of tomorrow, but we believe that this must not be made a taboo or an ideological point of inmobility that would force the so-called politics not to be able to adapt to the social reality, the one that each of us lives and that however lives also regardless of us outside these walls. Society has changed, as my colleague Mr Airola from my parliamentary group also said, and it is right that the rule should be adapted to this, in accordance with the general principles of the law, in the protection of the rights and freedoms of individual citizens. In our view, the draft law before us, at least in the text before us today (then we will see what will come out at the end of the vote on the amendments), seems acceptable and does not undermine the family institution at all. In the Justice Commission we have heard very often speeches that seemed to echo the same issues and arguments that we heard exactly forty years ago when the referendum repealing the law that had introduced divorce in Italy. Even in that case, sfraccelli and even anthropological changes of Italian society were feared if that bond had failed, considered still sacred at the time, but with a sacredness that ignores the strictly religious context, which seemed to prevent and ingessare Italian society. It wasn't like that. There are divorces and I believe that cases where they are instrumental in other purposes are very limited. Especially those who, like myself, live in the classrooms of justice and are often confronted with the reality, also in the matter of family law, of spouses, of the protection of the offspring, are well aware that the possibility of divorce has not changed the family institution. On the other hand, if the family is suffering today, this is clearly due to other economic reasons, the absence of effective support measures for the family, mothers, working mothers and offspring. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We don't know that. It is worth remembering, as has been done, that today it is already possible to divorce immediately in Spain or Romania, which has been mentioned earlier. We understand that there are a large number of Italian citizens who, even if they do not have to wait three years and have the economic possibilities, today prefer to go to Spain or other European countries like Holland. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] It's been ten minutes already? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u42	It's been ten minutes, but you have a few more minutes if you want to use it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u43	BUCCARELLA (M5S). I conclude with these data on the timing of the divorce: United Kingdom, six months; Netherlands, three-four months; Romania, two-four months. Therefore, there is already the possibility of obtaining a divorce without waiting for the three years that in rare cases, in concrete experience, involves an effective rethinking of the couple and, therefore, the conjugal reunion. We believe that this bill, in the form in which it will be fired - we will see it later and in the explanation of vote we will make more detailed observations - is welcome and is a measure that society needs today. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u44	Senator Palma is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u45	Madam President, I must immediately correct Senator Giovanardi. It does not correspond to the fact that the amendment on the so-called rapid divorce was inserted at the last moment: it had the same life and the same path as all the other amendments and, waiting for the delicacy of the matter, was clearly the subject of reflection and deepening in the Commission. With great clarity, there is no point in talking about excerpts. Those who do not want to vote on paragraph 2 of Article 1, i.e. the quick divorce, can safely vote on amendments 1,113, 1,114, 1,115 and 1,116, which are deleted from this paragraph. Let's just be honest with each other. Who thinks to ask for the excerpt and to obtain it wants a sinking of this provision without the consequent assumption of responsibility that is precisely of those who, in these classrooms, represent the Italian people. As far as I am concerned, I will always be against any possibility of deletion. Each person shall assume his or her responsibilities by voting in favour of or against the deleted amendments relating to paragraph 2 of Article 1. Having said that, for the sake of clarity and reconstruction of the dynamics of the facts - as I say in my capacity as President of the Commission, justice - I come to the substance of the question which, of course, concerns only paragraph 2 of Article 1. In yesterday's and today's debate I have heard some speakers using apocalyptic tones, fearing immanent tragedies and positioning themselves on ideology in some ways hypocrites, often not knowing the merit of the issue. How can one say, as some have said, that this provision would have devastating effects on children, if children are not foreseen in this provision, since rapid divorce is possible only in the absence of children or in the presence of children over twenty-six self-sufficient years? Basically, we are talking about children who presumably work, being self-sufficient; presumably married; presumably they have taken on another social formation, another marriage. How can it be said that this provision would make marriage a mere economic contract? I do not want to dwell here on the normal way in which the attempt at conciliation is made in courtrooms and how little there is, in general, the intervention of the judicial authority with regard to the clauses that are agreed between the parties. But those who say this should tell me where they were when they were in the Chamber, with the contrary vote of Forza Italia for the reasons that I will shortly explain, we voted for the dissolution of the marriage and the separation through assisted negotiation and through a procedure before the civil state officer. To my colleagues in the New Right Centre, who refer to Article 29 and Article 30 of the Constitution, and because of this, they stand up to extreme defenders of the marriage institution, I ask how they defended him when, in this House, they voted for the dejurisdiction of procedures and allowed it to happen before the lawyers and the civil state officer. GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). That's not true. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). With a polite interruption, Senator Giovanardi asserts that what I say is not true. Now I'm gonna publicly deny it, having the microphone, and he's not. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't abuse your privilege. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). When in the assisted negotiation you have allowed that in the presence of children of age who are not self-sufficient and in the absence of children with disabilities, that is to say, a situation absolutely similar to that which is the basis of the so-called rapid divorce, the separation and dissolution of the marriage could take place before the lawyer without any real involvement of the judicial authority, being the judicial authority only responsible for formal control in relation to the agreement or rather not the judicial authority but the prosecutor, what defense have you made of the matrimonial institution referred to in Articles 29 and 30 of the Constitution? Do you understand that the prosecutor is different from the judge? So I cannot understand why in the presence of minor children, you have allowed a similar procedure of assisted negotiation in front of lawyers with the only harp to notify the prosecutor of the Republic. And in your confusion of judicial roles, you have forgotten that the prosecutor is a part and that what is needed for advertising in these marriage procedures is exactly the judge. Mainly: where were you when you voted a similar separation procedure no longer before lawyers with the pseudo-control of a prosecutor of the Republic but a procedure before the civil state officer without providing for any intervention of the judicial authority, not even that prosecutor of the Republic, demiurge of the morality of the Italian couples, and excluding any possibility of attempt at conciliation? It is you who have privatised the procedures and, consequently, you have touched on the publicistic nature of marriage. It is so difficult to understand that the public nature of marriage, Articles 29 and 30 of the Constitution, derive two consequences from the legal point of view: the obligation to reconcile the judicial authority (Articles 708 and 709 of the Code of Civil Procedure) and the intervention of the judicial authority of the judge on measures concerning the offspring, minors. These are the two interventions that make public the procedure of the marriage institution. And either way, you forgot about it when you ran the assisted negotiation and the other procedure in front of the civilian state officer. As for the separation, gentlemen, if you went to re-read the Nenni-Moro and Saragat-Moro correspondence or the acts of the Gonella Commission, at the end of the 1960s, with reference to the Concordat, when, before the referendum, you acted on the divorce law, you would understand well that that separation, disguised as a pause for rethinking (who knows the right well how to motivate) was nothing more than what Scoppola, a writer certainly not secular, claimed to be the result of a long negotiation. Then let's be serious to the end. To Senator Dalla Zuanna, who after a broad statistical dissertation, for which one out of three marriages ends in separation and one in five ends in divorce, asked us to focus our attention on the reason why separate couples do not then access the divorce, I say that perhaps, if he carries out a reflection on the section of the civil code, in particular on the rights successors probably could find a justification for those choices, which many parents do to the exclusive protection of their children. But Senator Dalla Zuanna, in his passionate speech, said a great truth: it is reasonable to shorten the interval between separation and divorce to six months. It was five years, then three years, then two years, now six months; which is to say that in the next legislature it will be reasonable to break down this, which is nothing more than a totem! Explain to me the reason in the world why people who have no children or are older than twenty-six years old, so people who are probably fifty-fifty-five years old, are mature adults who know perfectly well what they have to do, they have to wait to resume their lives. In the descending phase of life itself, they must wait six months to then remarry or have a different relationship with the former wife as with the previous family. The legislator is not an ethical legislator. The legislator, within the framework of the principles set out in our Constitutional Charter, must legislate in the interests of the people and try to solve the problems that daily weary the citizens of this country and not reduce their morals in a superpositional way and superimposed on the morality of others, if the morality of others is in line with our order and our Constitution. And where, in our Constitution, is the rule that imposes the period of reflection? Do you want to understand that the state has to let the individual go free? Do you want to understand that we must allow the individual to exercise his or her rights to the full, to live to the full his or her life, the rational one and also the sentimental one? What is this buffet, by virtue of which you have to wait six months? A person is fifty years old, can take on all the responsibilities in the world of work and decide as he wants of his life, but he must wait six months to realize this decision. But do you realize that all this is abuse? All this is an abuse that is linked to an approach that could have made sense in 1975, when Italy was different and divorce became part of an ancient, deeply Catholic society. But what is the point of waiting for six months when in this Parliament, after 1975, we decided on important ethical issues such as abortion, heterologous fertilization and now we are discussing civil unions? In essence, we are trying to adapt our legislation to the social reality, which is made up of married, separated, living together, single, and our task is simply to adapt reasonably, proportionately, the current discipline to what society is. And do you really believe that these six months constitute a fundamental principle so important that the state can override the autonomy of individual citizens? Get rid of ideologies and free yourself also, for those who have it, from that religious sentiment which, besides leading to no sin, tries to prevent others from sinning. We are free to sin, in compliance with the rules of our order. Make a decision that is aware of people's interests. Take down this totem and allow those few couples who want it - because it is not mandatory to get a quick divorce - to go this way. One last thing I would like to add, Madam President, is that it is not said that rapid divorce may, in some way, not protect the weak person of the family. But how can the weak subject of the family be protected, then, in a divorce that arrives six months later? And mainly, Senator Giovanardi and friends of the People's Area, how do you protect the weak subject of the family by legalizing how you have legislated, that is, allowing the separation or consensual divorce to take place before the civil state, without attempt to reconcile and without lawyers, being the presence of lawyers absolutely optional? [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and Misto-SEL groups and the Senators Filippin and Buccarella. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u47	Madam President, perhaps when we have to discuss rights and social issues such as the one we have to face today it would be better to start on Tuesday because there is no longer the attention of politics and the absence of many senators in this House depends on two factors: first of all on the fact that every Member thinks of living the political life of the Group; secondly, on the fact that he discusses matters without having studied them and without even having the sense of what he is discussing, so he speaks of excavation, of rapid divorce as if there were a new rule. So we need to reconstruct the presuppositions: just as a judge must strip himself of his own political ideas, religious ideas, of his own conception of life in order to be able to assess a concrete case, so the legislator must disregard his own opinions and ideas; he must ignore them when it comes to matters pertaining to the life of the individual; he cannot legislate and modulate the norms according to his own beliefs and his own will. In fact, it is necessary to take into account those who are atheist, Catholic, those who profess any other religion, as the Constitution teaches. When we discuss family and divorce, we must take into account that there is Article 29 of the Constitution that recognizes the rights of the family as a natural society based on marriage. This legitimate not the Catholic Church but public intervention; contrary to that wretched law passed some time ago in contrast to the law on divorce. Why do I say that? I have heard a number of considerations that do not fit into it. I have heard statements, as if there were a rule in our law that after three years of separation you are entitled to divorce. It's a fake. That's not true. I've been a divorce judge and I've been interested in family law doing studies for 40 years. Do we want to read the divorce law we're going to amend? Article 1 reads: "The judge" - and here is the fundamental error of the decree-law of the Government that you voted - "pronounces the dissolution of the marriage contracted under the civil code, when, unnecessarily experienced the attempt to reconcile referred to in the following Article 4, ascertains that the spiritual and material communion between the spouses cannot be maintained or reconstituted for the existence of one of the cases provided for in Article 3". In other words, the existence of one of the causes - which we will then see - is not enough for the purposes of the pronunciation of divorce. It is necessary for the court to carry out this determination. It is so important this finding that the jurisprudence has allowed the recognition in our country of a series of divorces pronounced abroad, without separation and between Italian citizens and without any of the hypotheses whose existence in our country we will then go to see, has recognized the divorce pronounced abroad because in those judgments the judge, even of a foreign State, had established the cessation, the impossibility to reconstitute the family communion. I therefore do not understand who, like Senator Giovanardi or others, speaks of an attempt at marriage. With the attempt to marry it is allowed after six months of separation, without any control (what is happening in our country), separation; you have reduced the institution of marriage to a farce! GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). You want to do it in 24 hours... CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I have proposed the amendment tabled by Senator Alberti Casellati with some modifications and, together with the whole Commission, we have come to find an articulate consonance of the law. Those who say that we are introducing a quick divorce show that they are ignoring the law, Madam President. If we are to discuss between Members of Parliament in a Senate Chamber, we must at least read the law that we want to amend. It is absolutely not true that separation is the only cause of divorce. Shall we discuss the causes? If a spouse is sentenced to 15 years of imprisonment for one or more non-polluting crimes, well, contrary to the fundamental rule that provides for moral assistance and personal assistance to the spouse, even if the condemned poor man has repented and followed a rehabilitation path according to our Constitution according to the Civil Code you can ask for divorce without separation. If by hypothesis one of the two spouses goes abroad and obtains a divorce that we cannot recognize, the other, without separation, asks for divorce in Italy. If by hypothesis one is convicted of carnal violence (of course not against his wife), the other mate may seek divorce without separation. And if by chance a spouse moves away from the marital home, does not provide for the needs of the other spouse and children and is sentenced twice (for the crime referred to in Article 570 of the Criminal Code), the other spouse may seek divorce and there is no need for separation. You all know you're thinking about something nonexistent. We are faced with the so-called "rapid" divorce, as you call it, that is, the easy divorce, which you have done with those evil rules that do not allow the judge to evaluate. And what does the judge have to do? Beware that the law is very clear: not only that necessary assessment is provided for in the first article but, in the event that a person is sentenced in accordance with Articles 570 or 582 and others of the penal code, the judge, even in view of the subsequent conduct of the defendant, must assess his ability to maintain or rebuild family life. This is that fundamental concept that is at the basis of divorce and that you have eliminated and ignored, despite our prayers to read the rules, when we discussed the rule on easy divorce. What does this rule provide? It provides first of all for joint action. With the joint appeal, both spouses, when there are no minor children, children of age who are unable or severely handicapped, or children under the age of twenty-six economically unsufficient, go before the judge and the judge, who serves to protect the weakest part. Also in this case - be careful - for the rule referred to in Article 1 you will have to pronounce the divorce only if it ascertains the impossibility of rebuilding the cohabitation and family communion. It is therefore not true that it is the first time that a divorce without separation has been introduced and that the weaker spouse has been protected. Beware, with this crazy law that you have voted, we are faced with this situation: an economically rich and powerful man manages to solve everything, even under the table, with the weaker wife and with the stronger lawyer than any weaker lawyer of his wife. And there is no one to evaluate the correspondence with the conditions of life and family. How many times has the judge, even in the face of an agreement and a joint appeal, postponed the spouses, and how many times has the judge considered that the agreement did not correspond to the interests of the children or did not protect them correctly! Think about when there is a one-off agreement: even the one-off agreement, if it does not correspond to the interests of the weaker party, cannot be approved by the judge. You destroyed all this, leaving only the intervention of two lawyers, without any public investigation. So, dear Senator Cucca, it is precisely the weak part that has been destroyed and that no longer has protection. And you want to deny her the possibility of having this protection, because you know better than I do that, with two lawyers doing an act transmitted without any importance, after six months, with consensual separation, they will do another act and get rid of it. Most likely, in this way within six months in some courts it is not possible to conclude. But the essential point is that the parties will have to produce all the documentation required by the Divorce Act, so that the judge makes the assessment, even if it is only two spouses. Then I wonder what the reason for the opposition is. I have read only ten cases (but there are others) of divorce without separation. In fact, I would understand your position, Senator Cucca, if, hypothetically, you say that six months are too few in cases of consensual separation. In fact, it may be the case of an immediate response from a spouse to a family dispute, which led him to request separation. In that case, most likely six months are few. By pursuing the profession of a high-level lawyer, as is your case, you know better than I do that, at a time when conflicts are exacerbated, even in the event of consensual separation, the revisitation of those conditions that have been subscribed leads many times to subsequent conflicts. But after six months the separation process is over. Then it would have been more logical not to accept the hypothesis of the House of Deputies and say that it takes a year, because that does not make any sense. Senator Giovanardi has tabled three amendments and has conditioned them to be recognized the assisted negotiation and intervention of the civil state officer. But I do not think that colleagues in the People's Area have completely lost their reason, so much so as not to understand the substantial difference with a guarantee operation, such as this rule that guarantees the weakest spouse and wants the intervention of the State as required by Article 29 of the Constitution and entrusts to the judge what Article 1 of the divorce law wants entrusted to the judge. I invite all my colleagues, including those who are not in the Chamber (but I hope they will read some speeches) to reflect and reread the divorce law. Let us not continue with wrong statements. This is not the first time a quick divorce has been introduced into our system. But this definition is also wrong, because this is neither a quick nor immediate divorce. It is a divorce on the basis of a reality, established by the judge, about the failure of spiritual and material communion between the spouses, which leads to the pronunciation of divorce. If this material and spiritual communion has not failed, the judge who sloppyly pronounces divorce fails to his duty and function, if he does not carry out this verification, through an effective attempt to reconcile, because there is a joint appeal. I know, Senator Cucca could tell me that in some cases this does not happen, but we cannot take sloppyness as a rule, or non-compliance with the norm. I can say that in my life I will have made 4,000 presidential hearings and I have never left out an attempt at conciliation, nor have I let it be done without a commitment. Like me, so many other judges and, I must say, the entire section of the Milan court of which I was a member. If there is someone who does not do it: good, we intervene! As you know, ladies and gentlemen, in the reform of family law we had also made certain obligations regarding the timing of the presidential hearing, because it is necessary that, especially in the separation, those times be respected, in order to intervene before the problems and conflicts that may involve the child are established and stabilised. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to think before saying: "Let us go over the rules and evaluate them as they are, compared to the reproach we have voted on. This last text does not guarantee, while that guarantees effective protection even to the weakest and finally introduces another element within the framework of the law on divorce, which is represented not by the freedom of citizens, not by the possibility of the individual to do what he wants, but by the necessity that the judge has established that, since there is no possibility of re-establishment of coexistence, forcing the spouses to live together is against the interest of the State. This is the logic and only in this way can we achieve a result that can be consistent not with the Catholic thesis or the secular one (this does not matter), but with the principles of the Constitution and, essentially, also with the law that we are going to amend. Do not continue to discuss excerpts or other, without having framed the system in the law of 1970. [[Applause from Senator Pelino]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u48	Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u49	Madam President, yesterday we approved the provision on foster care and adoptions, today we are discussing that on short divorce: a fruitful season for civil rights in our country opens. It is a waiting season, if anything late, but full of results, a fruitful season, towards modern goals to be achieved. In short, it is a great resource, to put behind us the "italietta", a resource to look inside Italian society and to put in harmony design politics with citizens. This is a great opportunity to modernise our country. In the crisis there are unprecedented opportunities to make sure that our country changes radically and makes choices that it would never do otherwise: the crisis must be seen as a progressive resource of Italian society, institutions and politics. The short divorce doesn't surprise our country, if anything it puts a bit of a strain on politics and it was good for the Senate to overcome the resistance that we had on this choice that was made in the House. It was right for the Senate to grasp its innovative scope, to avoid splitting up, during the days of discussion in the Justice Committee, on short divorce: it is a great, positive result and so we must live it. We have all referred, for my joy (as you well know who knows me in this House), to Europe. There are two reasons for looking positively at Europe's path, let us say in terms of vision. One cannot one day be focused on Europe and the one after being frightened, recall our traditions and ask Europe to take this into account. You see, in a vision that looks to the future, Europe will increasingly have to create common legislative spaces: we have asked for it on the economic side, now we are making progress on banking, financial governance, debt governance, we are asking for Europe to make a qualitative leap on the logics and strategies of development and growth. We cannot forget that Europe has been asking for years to build an anti-mafia legal area, which is a very dear topic to me. And then, ladies and gentlemen, Europe cannot stop its dynamic in the face of civil rights: it will go on, it is unstoppable, any form of reference to the traditions of its own country will be worth nothing. Europe will also be built on civil rights, and we must welcome this vision. Indeed, we must be a resource for Europe which wants to create an area of harmonisation of civil rights. However, there is also an element of necessity: Europe is moving forward, the countries of Europe are moving forward and we must prevent Italian citizens, wealthy citizens, from going to another country of Europe, for example in Spain, as our rapporteur well explained when she made an objective description of what is happening in Europe, in order to have access to those civil rights, including the short divorce, that are being denied in Italy. In this way we would create a Europe at so many speeds and in Italy we would create a social belt able to benefit from the innovations present in other countries and a part that instead is cut off, that is excluded. We want a Europe of inclusion, not that of exclusion. That's why it's an asset to us, not a limit. In short, in the next few days (starting Tuesday) we have the opportunity to unite Parliament on short divorce and to unite the institutions with Italian society: a wonderful opportunity not to be missed and not to be minimized. That is why it is good for us to put aside rigidly ideological approaches and make sure that we approach this problem in the best possible way. All political cultures, none excluded, can draw within themselves motivations and content to arrive at a short divorce, because it constitutes a great opportunity of modernity able to be consistent with two great issues that have emerged here: the importance of marriage and the centrality of the family. No one is against marriage, no one wants to degrade its scope or thinks of demeaning its profound meaning: anything else. However, there are two ways for marriage to maintain its centrality. There is the traditional way: let's close, let's try to resist change, rather, let's make sure that change is demonized. This is thought to be the best way to defend the marriage. I am not convinced: I think this choice is ruinous for the marriage itself. There is another way, that of those who think that the constitutional value of marriage must also be projected to the future, meeting the conscience of the new generations, putting themselves in harmony with our country and therefore ensuring that this marriage changes, opens up, becomes welcoming, is not rigid and excluding. This is why we have put this important problem on civil unions: marriage, a modern, open resource, able to dialogue with the present society and to constitute a resource for the new generations. This can be done if we think of marriage with a view to combining freedom and responsibility. Those here who have called (rightly, legitimately) the relationship that must exist between the spouses in responsibility must understand that this marries with freedom; of course, even those who focus their attention on freedom must understand that responsibility is a future value of modern democracies. We balance freedom and responsibility, because if we do not do so we will have the wrong divisions and legislative results. This is also true of the family, an extraordinary resource. But beware, if we lock the family within an exclusive model, old, traditional, that no longer exists in Italian society, we put it in crisis, indeed, we make it marginal, obtuse, completely devoid of charm and possibility of being welcomed by the new generations. The value of the family must be grasped in its evolutions, in the difficulties that live, in its own labours. The characteristics of the Italian family, which opens to a plural condition, with children coming from different marriages, where grandparents and grandmothers are the first to welcome the diversity that in the meantime mature in Italian society and have no prejudices, must become a value, a resource for legislation that must not lock the family to a monocultural dimension of a certain type. For this reason, short divorce is the great opportunity to open a new season of rights. Attention, divorce is not the cause of the crisis of marriage and family, if anything it is an opportunity to regulate conflicts that, if not regulated, can implode marriage and family. It is now clear that time is a resource in modern society. Who thinks that the lengthened, indefinite time, what we live today, can be the best cure to put the marriage back at the center and the family has wrong everything. Time is a great resource if it recalls choice, responsibility, if it has in itself the ability to decide even in complex and troubled relationships. Politics, therefore, must understand that time is no longer that of the past: let things settle themselves, let time heal and soothe the evils of society. No! Makes time become conscious, makes time become design, that calls the choice. That is why short divorce is also an opportunity to ensure that time is finally conceived, as in all modern and globalized societies, a great decision-making resource. Ladies and gentlemen, the element of division here in this House, as has been mentioned in all the speeches, is the choice made by the Commission of justice to vote and therefore to welcome the institution of so-called direct divorce, on which the possibility of a division has been created which I do not think deserves to be. Yes, it would be a mistake to divide us on direct divorce or even make it an opportunity to degrade short divorce, or a tool to block the possibility of launching here in the Senate and then in third reading in the House the short divorce. No, that would be a mistake. I say this, of course, both to those who are opposed, in my opinion, to direct divorce, and to those who, like me, support it and believe it to be consistent with our system and with the new season of civil rights and with the enhancement of marriage and the family. In short, it must not become a club with which to hit us and bring back from the window what we left out the door: ideologisms, radicalisms, dullness and possibility to block this new season of civil rights. Direct divorce, as has been said, involves a restricted audience. Attention, children are not at stake, and therefore those conditions that could create disorientation and difficulty. But I would also like to say another very important thing: it is not true that time soothes and overcomes conflicts. Short times often call for choice, responsibility and overcoming conflicts. It is not true that having more time means having more opportunity to give children the opportunity to mature and to find a new emotional balance. It was well said that we can separate ourselves, but we never separate ourselves from being parents, and that is why it is not true that the relationship between time and parental responsibility is such a measure that it can become a cause for division within Parliament. It was well explained that in the face of that choice that I voted, that we defended and that there were legitimate divisions even within the Democratic Party (I am referring to assisted negotiation and the possibility of separation and divorce in front of an officer of the civil state) we said that they were necessary options that we defended because they were modern and had to be seen without prejudice. However, we also said that it was necessary to give the possibility of introducing direct divorce, because that was an opportunity to guarantee that, with the presence and function of the judge, he was really able to put back in place a real attempt at reconciliation, to be able to defend the weak part, man or woman who was, to verify the conditions in order to be able to implement. For these reasons I believe that this additional opportunity is not detached from our legal system: it is not a coercion, it is a normal option, restricted and optional, which is added to the others that we have inserted with the assisted negotiation and with the possibility to divorce before the official of the civil state recently with the approval of the decree-law that the Government has proposed to us. We don't have to split up on Tuesday. There is absolutely no need to recreate an instrumental conflict on Tuesday. On Tuesday we must ensure that the new civil rights season can be accepted. We will find the most appropriate solution to remain united and ensure that the short divorce can become law, finding the Senate the widest welcome, and finally preparing for the other great appointment that we will always have on civil rights: I refer to the legislation on civil unions, which will be a further step towards the modernization of our country and also for the quality of legislative and parliamentary activity. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u50	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u51	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u54	FALANGA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, although I speak bitterly, because I know that no one listens to me (apart from three or four colleagues), I am doing the same thing at the end of the sitting on a personal matter of mine, in order to fulfil a specific obligation. Exactly in 1998 137 people died in the municipality of Sarno, following a flood and the mud that, from the hill, devastated the entire town. There have been several judgments to affirm the responsibilities and, after the right times of the trial referred to in Article 111 of the Constitution, for about a year has been pronounced the judgment of the Court of Cassation, after the postponement (i.e. after about twenty years), with which the responsibility of the mayor and the prefecture organs has been affirmed. This is an enforceable judgment. I have listened to representatives of the majority who support this Government saying that the sentences are respected and enforced, but when they concern others: when they concern them, the sentences become rag paper. This judgment of the Court of Cassation condemns the mayor and the prefecture - that is, the State, the Presidency of the Council of Ministers - to compensate for the damage to those who died more than sixteen years ago for the impriety, carelessness and inability of the administrators and the prefecture to organize then a minimum of activity. On the contrary, in the process we read some very disconcerting things: we read that, even through television, words of reassurance were spoken to the citizens and they said not to move from their homes. In those houses people died because they were covered in mud. Today, even the damage does not compensate; they do not even compensate the costs of lawyers who had to support these citizens in five degrees of judgment: first degree, second degree, Cassation, return to court of appeal and, again, Cassation. Well, despite the condemnation, this government, after about twenty years, does not even consider to compensate a citizen who has seen a joint die under the mud - I repeat - about twenty years ago. I do this intervention only to say a word: be ashamed, be ashamed, be ashamed!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u57	LUMIA (PD). Madam President, I asked to speak at the end of the sitting to note that a problem has been resolved which has been called for several times in this House, by myself and other colleagues, on the Micron dispute, whose employees were on the Social Security Fund. The dispute has been resolved positively and several workers have finally been able to be integrated into the new and modern industrial plan that has finally been implemented. For me, too, a result was achieved, because the workers in Catania were all integrated into the new industrial plan, but I did not want the problem to be raised only for the workers in my land and I find it right to draw the Presidency's attention to represent to the Government that 18 workers still remain out of the possibility of being reinstated. I am referring to workers in Naples and Vimercate (three in Naples and 15 in Vimercate respectively) for whom I ask whether it is possible to urge the Government to take a step further. Finally, I would like to draw the Presidency's attention to another major issue, which concerns the whole of Italy: the derogation fund, which belongs to the Region and sees the contribution also from the Government. We stand firm in 2014 and still issues to finance workers living this dramatic condition are not closed. It is necessary to urge the government to make it soon, because it is a matter of survival and every day lost makes the lives of many workers truly sad. Let us find the right solutions and prepare ourselves for reform, which will put us in a position to overcome an instrument that has often created economic and social hardships and difficulties for many workers.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u58	The Presidency will undertake to report on the issues you raised to the Government. I am sorry that the Undersecretary is not present today for relations with Parliament, which generally takes note of the issues raised by the senators in the speeches at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u61	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Madam President, today's news is that two investigations were to be opened on the procurement of Cara di Mineo: one of the competent regional prosecutors and one of the Anti-Mafia District Directorate of Catania for immigration-related crimes. From the newspaper "La Sicilia" it is learned that more than ten people would be involved in various ways in an investigation that starts from the hypothesis of crimes ranging from the abuse of office to the disturbance of the auction, but it seems that checks are also being carried out on the existence of a vote of exchange. Among the people involved, the press bodies also include the current undersecretary for agriculture Giuseppe Castiglione, former president of the Province of Catania, in the capacity of actuator; later, when in 2013 the competence passed to the Ministry of the Interior, he became president of the "Calatino Terra di Welcoming" (Calatino Terra di Welcoming), the consortium of Municipalities that launched a tender declared illegitimate, last February 25, by the National Anti-corruption Authority. On this point, with the question 4-03599 of two days ago, I asked the Government to know what measures it intends to take to verify what happened in relation to the tender declared unlawful by Canton and whether it is not appropriate to revise the outline of contract specifications provided for in the Ministerial Decree of 2008, in order to bring it into line with national and Community procurement rules. But above all I have asked what initiatives the Government intends to take to eliminate the fearful conflicts of interest that exist in the case of some apical representatives, including the commissioners of the contracting committee and the mayors of the Terra di accoglienza consortium, as well as what measures they want to take to ascertain the relative responsibilities. The responsibility that today must also be attributed to the undersecretary Castiglione, who declares himself unaware of the whole story. There was no answer to another question I put, the 4-03159 of 16 December 2014, with which I asked the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of the Interior whether they considered it appropriate for Dr. Castiglione to remain in the post of Undersecretary or did not consider it necessary to initiate the appropriate withdrawal procedures. Now that it is certain that an inquiry is involving the Undersecretary, the 5 Star Movement asks that the procedure of revocation be accelerated, being not conceivable that a representative of the Government with important delegations can continue to exercise its institutional mandate, with the addition that even in the investigations of the public prosecutors of Rome on Mafia Capitale appears the name of Castiglione for having appointed the now known "expert" in matters of immigration Odevaie. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u62	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-03-12-LEG17-Senato-sed-409.ana.u63	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.55 p.m.
