ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 10 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u4	Colleagues, I would like to extend my greetings to the delegation of the parliamentarians of Côte d'Ivoire. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u7	Bianconi (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I rise to share with the House the memory of General Piccinno of the NAS, who disappeared last Friday. Those who have dealt with health care must have known General Piccinno of the NAS. The antisophistication nucleus is an armed phalanx of the Ministry of Health, an extraordinary institutional structure. We all hear about it when there are roundups of people operating in the health sector who are not professionally qualified or when tons of damaged food are required or when hospitals are closed because they are not in compliance with the law. These very valuable operators of the National Health Service carry out extraordinary underground work, often not known except in these striking tips, but of great protection for all of us. The Italian NAS is a flagship of the Italian nation and abroad envy us the sense of protection and self-denial of these operators. General Piccinno leaves us. He was an extraordinary figure; those who knew him appreciated the sign, the figure of great humanity and great professionalism. General Piccinno has accompanied the work of the Health Commission all these years, and for this reason we are extremely grateful to him, but he has also accompanied the Commission of Inquiry into the National Health Service, which unfortunately we have not wanted to open in this parliamentary term. In fact, this Commission was very valuable to the National Health Service and to the reasons that operate in the sense of public health. General Piccinno was a precious servant of the State, attentive and in love with his profession, capable of directing a handful of a few carabinieri, enslaved to the State. I give him an affectionate memory. Our deepest condolences go to the family and to the entire Carabinieri weapon. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u10	DE BIASI (PD). Madam President, I agree with the words of Senator Bianconi and, as President of the Health Commission, I can only recall with emotion, affection and recognition General Cosimo Piccinno, who died on Friday at the age of 65. He was a man full of life, inflexible in his moral principles and extraordinary professionalism in the difficult field of health. It has been defined by a national newspaper in a beautiful article "General of Health." It was just like that. We have known him in this legislature for the incredible and irreplaceable work he has brought with us on the Stamina case. I believe that if there had not been his determination, his inflexibleness, his capacity for relationship, his ability to deepen that serious lie that was Stamina we would not be in a position today to say, as the Cassazione said, that the Stamina method is dangerous: it is inappropriate and dangerous. Thank you, general, also for this: for a job that had no rest or vacation. We worked together in August last, at the dramatic moment of the seizure, at the hospital company "Spedali civili di Brescia" of the cells of the "so-called" case Stamina. We spoke daily on weekends, there was no break. There was no break because there was passion and great professionalism. The general has made all the journey that a carabiniere has to make: he started from Ostuni, his city, and he has reached the general command of the NAS. This is also the testimony of an extraordinary civil passion, combined with his being a carabiniere to the end, therefore with a belonging to the weapon that has always, however, contaminated itself with the civil passion to work for the health of the citizens and for the common good, in deep collaboration with the institutions and with a truly rare intellectual honesty. I join in mourning the family and I just want to say the following: we will not forget it and it will be impossible for us to replace it. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bianconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u13	[[Brusio.]] Since we are commemorating a person, I call on colleagues to lower their voices and to have a minimum of respect. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CRI). Mr President, on 7 May last, the division general Cosimo Piccinno was here in the Senate: he was with us, friends of the Health Commission, at a conference on the health problems of the fish supply chain. It was one of his numerous presences alongside the senators and senators who took advantage of his expertise and the commitment of the NAS carabinieri to carry out the complex work in the field of health policies. He's gone. General Piccinno has gone away, leaving us prematurely, with an unbreakable void and a great sadness. He was not only an illustrious man of the institutions, a man who served the country with loyalty, rigour and competence; General Piccinno, as he himself loved to say, had the wings carved on the skin. As the General Commander of the Arm of the Carabinieri, general of army Tullio Del Sette, recalled just yesterday, General Piccinno had the alamari carved in his heart, evidently wanting to highlight that great and generous heart that has always fed his work, his talent and his innate vocation to confront others. With this precious patrimony of values and strong of these extraordinary competences matured on the field, which were unanimously recognized to him outside and inside the Arm of the Carabinieri, General Piccinno honored the uniform for more than forty-two years, becoming, as commander of the Carabinieri of the NAS in 2008, a diligent and passionate protagonist of the motto "salus populi suprema lex" (salus populi suprema lex), which made him the champion of the citizens, as well as a strenuous defender of the legality and purpose of good practices in health, also through agreements, conventions and protocols of understanding of which he became protagonist inside and outside the national borders, in the awareness of how important the process of legislative harmonization, also at supranational level. General Piccinno, Mino (as he had been called confidently by those who had the honour of having relations of custom with him), was an extraordinary person, who will always remain in the memory and heart of those who knew him for a rare virtue, the ability to contest the authoritativeness of the role with the humanity of the trait, to unite to the awareness of having a great responsibility a profound charge of humanity that made him respected, but never feared, loved by the powerful and even humble people. He left on tiptoe, with great dignity and full awareness that he was about to conclude his laborious earthly experience. "Usi obedience silent and silent dying; stoic and unique, even at the time of death. The Arm of the Carabinieri loses, with General Piccinno, one of his most illustrious and most representative men, who honored the uniform even outside the national borders. This is why, in the silence of prayer, together with the Group of Italian Conservators, Reformists, I associate myself with the cry of the family, of the wife Giulia, of the daughters Giulia and Giovanna and of all her boys of the Carabinieri and NAS. [[Applause from the CRI and FI-PdL XVII Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u16	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would also like to mention, on behalf of Forza Italia, General Cosimo Piccinno, a figure who has certainly done so much for health and who has done so much for the citizens. A man who is difficult to remember with words, in that he always preceded the facts to the other forms of apparition. He was a concrete man, who had in the result a real mission in favour of the citizens. He was a man who served the State with an absolute abnegation and who lived this year of illness always with a unique dignity, never subtracting himself from his commitments and spending himself to the last for those values that he strongly shared in his life. So I extend a hug to his wife Giulia and daughters Juliet and Joan, who surely lose a father who was exceptional for his unique abilities to be a man of state, but also a man with the unique ability to live life and be close to the feelings of the people. I also remember him as a friend: I shared so many personal moments with him. He was a man who could really combine a unique trait of his particularly exuberant character with that seriousness of which the Carabinieri's weapon makes its own distinctive trait. I want to remember him still serene, close to his men, with that ability to face the problems to solve them, without frills, straight to the goal. Hi, Cosimo. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u17	The Presidency joins the words of condolence and invites the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The President stands up and with you the whole House, who observes a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u20	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to speak about an issue which I have already raised, both in the previous parliamentary term and in the current one, and which - alas - seems to have come back to the present, in the light of what has happened in recent days. My reasoning is very simple: Rule 135 of the Rules of Procedure, in the fourth paragraph, states that all documents and documents received by the Junta relating to applications for authorization to proceed can only be examined by the members of the Junta itself and at the seat of this Junta. This is equivalent to saying that, once the Junta has completed its work, its authorization is denied or granted by the Senate of the Republic, on the basis of a vote that is not yet known about the cards. Since there are two permissions to proceed that concern fundamental rights, namely Article 13 of the Constitution on personal freedom and Article 15 on freedom in communications, and since in these two cases the vote of the Senate tends to remove an obstacle to the implementation of the provision of the judicial authority, I ask myself and ask you - I do so for the umpteenth time in this House - whether it is compatible with our right and our constitutional order that such a delicate vote, which tends to affect the freedom of communications or personal freedom, can be issued by the individual senator without any knowledge of the papers. It may be said that there is a report, whether it is a majority or a minority, but we all know that reports are acts of evaluation of a material that is transmitted by another authority. This is tantamount to saying that, in the absence of the knowledge of the cards, the vote expressed by the individual senators in the authorisation is an exquisitely political vote. It is basically a vote that tends to join the majority or minority, depending on the political positioning of the individual senators, not being allowed to form an autonomous idea in terms of what is required. Madam President, I apologise if I think that you and the House are tedious, but I do find it laughable that I have repeatedly read in the newspapers invitations or promises to read the papers, saying that we do not need to worry, that perhaps we are wrong to make a certain statement, but that we will then read the papers. This cannot be done, because the Rules of Procedure of the Senate prevent it. I therefore think, Madam President, that such a sensitive issue can only be dealt with by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I do not feel, Madam President and Senators, that I should continue to vote on such delicate measures without being able to form my own self-confidence. It is as if, by hypothesis - clearly this is a paradox and a forcing - it is said that the court of freedom must judge on the appeal de libertate not on the basis of the knowledge of the cards, but only and exclusively on the basis of the order of precautionary measure issued by the judge for preliminary investigations (GIP). Then I ask you, Madam President, and I do so for the second time in this parliamentary term and for the third time in my alas not a short parliamentary career, if we do not have to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure - and I would therefore ask you to do so - to finally address this problem. If this does not happen - I realize that this is little - I am not going to take part in any vote on requests for authorization to proceed, if I am not given the opportunity to form a self-confidence through the personal reading of the papers. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and CRi groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u22	Senator, I don't think it's fair to open a debate on this. I think it would be useful for the Presidency to take note of what Senator Palma has said. It will be my duty to send the request to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u23	BONFRISCO (CRI). I would like to speak on another matter. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. BONFRISCO (CRI). Madam President, I do not intend to supersede Mr Palma's thoughts at all. On the other hand, I think it is useful to point out to the House that yesterday the Italian Reformists Group submitted to the President of the Senate the request to review the balance within the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, so that this Group can have, like all the others, its own representative. I hope that there will be a positive outcome to this request as soon as possible. [[Applause from the CRI Group and Senator Carraro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u24	Again, I will speak with the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u25	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1678. I would remind you that at the sitting on 11 June the rapporteur gave the oral report and the general discussion took place. I call the rapporteur, Mr Esposito Stefano.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u26	Madam President, I would like to thank all the Members who have spoken in the general debate, because I believe that all the speeches have raised important issues, which have also been the subject of an important debate which, as I said, we had during the examination of the measure in the Commission. I would like briefly to highlight some aspects which I think deserve clarification. In particular, we have dealt with the issue of the objective law a long time ago and it is clear that different opinions have emerged on this issue, although they have always expressed a great deal of knowledge of the merit. Neither the rapporteur nor the majority in this context have assessed whether the objective law has been exceeded, but certainly the issue of greater control and greater attention to public works, including large works, through ordinary procedures emerges clearly in the delegation that we have led to the examination of this House. I would like to stress this because, although there is no formal proposal to exceed the objective law - I want to say it to my colleagues from SEL and the 5 Star Movement - for us the issue of the use of ordinary procedures becomes an element to be standardized. Mrs De Petris has raised a question with regard to the provisions on motorway concessions, in particular the rule, which we insert, which provides for Italian legislation to be adapted in a timely manner to European regulations and directives. In this respect, I believe that it is worth pointing out that the twenty-four-month concessions are not extended, but that this deadline refers to the expiry concessions for which it has not been possible, at present, to open a tendering procedure. I could give examples of important concessions of motorway sections that expire in 2016 and to prepare a European race with all the chrysms is required at least a year and a half or two of preparation: therefore, if it had not been provided and the time necessary for the preparation of the race were not there, the maximum extension of twenty-four months is according to the contract notice, not of surreptitious extensions or that are related to what was written in article 5 of the so-called Italian release. I want to make this clear, because otherwise a misunderstanding is generated. It is certainly the responsibility of those who wrote the letter and certainly not of Senator De Petris to have generated this doubt, but I would like to clarify it because we are talking exactly about this. I repeat, therefore, that the extensions of up to twenty-four months are based on the writing of the contract notice and the European tendering procedure: no surreptitious extension having any reference to Article 5 of the Italian release. Both questions then posed by Senator Lumia, whom I do not see in the Chamber, are real and preannouncement that the rapporteurs have prepared, obviously trying to summarize what had been the thought expressed by the Senator, an amendment, which we will present during the debate, including two additional paragraphs that collect the solicitations of Senator Lumia. These are two important paragraphs, because they introduce two instruments which, in our opinion, further strengthen the possibility of combating the system that often lurks in subcontracting and which unfortunately is on the agenda of the news. However, I would now like to respond to an issue which, unfortunately, has not been the subject of discussion in this House, but which has had a journalistic echo, and I believe that this is the right place to clarify it, namely the House. Senator Cioffi, in recent days, on input from a national newspaper, made a statement concerning an amendment by the rapporteurs, in which we were talking about project financing. I am convinced that Senator Cioffi was misled, because given the work we have done, it cannot be otherwise. The national newspaper attributed to the proposers - moreover by entrusting them with a desire to promote corruption and it is clear that this is an accusation that we send back to the sender - the will to overcome the current legislation with respect to project financing and the relative contests in order to obtain concessions through project financing. This statement is false and destitute of any basis, because the proposed amendment that we will see, and which I confirm in its text, concerns not the custody of concessions through project financing (on that we have not intervened and remains the procedure of competition as planned), but the process downstream, namely the custody of works and purchase of goods and services by the public and private dealers, who therefore already have a concession, for the works that today, as you know, would be technically regulated by European legislation, which provides that 60% are put to tender and 40% are subject to direct custody, and that unfortunately is not respected in a timely manner. In this regard, I suggest that colleagues read the results of the hearing held last week in the 8th Commission in the Chamber, in the course of the cognitive survey on motorway concessions, of the head of the economic structure service of the Bank of Italy, which highlighted that the concessionary system in Italy does not guarantee competition. This leaving aside a whole series of issues relating to the formal correctness of the financial plans submitted in the award, or concession (I speak of award, but you know that there are rare cases where concessions in this country have been awarded through a tender). The theme of project financing and the exclusion of concessions obtained through project financing concerns works on the network, not on obtaining the concession. The evaluation made by the rapporteurs, from our point of view largely supported by common sense and legislation, concerns the possibility that since a project financing work is assumed to be carried out with substantial private investments (not exclusive, but substantial and in many cases majority) in the management of the purchase of goods and services and in the custody of works, since there is prevailing private capital it cannot be granted that there is no public evidence competition for the custody of this type of work. I would like to say this to Mr Cioffi, and I believe that we have understood each other, because it has nothing to do with overcoming the procedure currently in force, which also provides for the tender for project financing for obtaining a concession. I wanted to stress this because there was a controversy, even a little unpleasant, with the newspaper in question and not with my fellow senators, who is destitute of foundation. Given that this is the top seat, I would also invite all those who have doubts to read the letter zz) of the draft law delegation and the related amendment of the rapporteurs on the subject. I have finished my speech and I would like to thank my fellow Members who have spoken again because I believe they have had the opportunity to further enrich the already extensive debate on this subject. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today this House is debating and voting on a very important measure, which is such not for a political part or for the Government, but because it places two main factors within a new framework: firstly to allow better and better supervision, better or better control in the very sensitive and relevant field of procurement of various kinds and, secondly, to give certainty in the execution and therefore in the timing of the timetable for public works of different and varied importance. The Commission has worked very well and made the delegation much more detailed. I must thank the members of the 8th Commission and their President, Senator Matteoli, and the two rapporteurs with whom the work has been done in a very thorough way, so as not to use the adjective 'perfect'. The speakers worked in agreement with the Government without taking into account a field of play restricted to majority forces alone. And exactly what should be done when you write rules of the game that serve to define the broad field of operation in which entrepreneurial forces, social forces, labour and enterprises move, that is, all those who have the effect and responsibility of decision on the fate of a great country like this. Before he came to the Assembly, the draft delegation law had a sort of placet on the part of the European Commission through the director of the competent Directorate-General Almeida, also collecting in the various and many hearings a sort of decidedly choral green light. We can honestly say that if yesterday we had a code that respected some innovative principles inserted within the delegation, some issues of which we have read in the press in the past and of which we still read in these days related to bad things, they would probably have had a much less expedited process. Finally, I refer to the story of Mafia Capitale and the report issued by the inspectors of the Ministry of Economy and Finance in January 2014, which among other things wrote: It is to be found that the custody is to be carried out directly, in the absence of any competitive procedure, although the amount of the service is far greater than the limit laid down by law. The MEF inspectors also added that extensions and renewals of contracts were expressly prohibited. If we had therefore had a code such as that which the Senate House is debating and which - I hope - will approve, although in the form of delegation, those who have worked on those services and obtained those forms of derogation would have found far greater obstacles. During the process of "construction" of the delegation I heard interesting voices, as well as some objections coming mainly from the 5 Star Movement Group, very many, who worked in the Commission and worked positively to make the delegation coming from the Council of Ministers much better. In particular, I have listened to the opinions of my friend and colleague Scibona, a kind of Tiresia, although I do not fortunately have the physical characteristics and less bad, on the contrary, I hope I never have them. But with regard to the delegation, which Article 76 of the Constitution makes in a precise way, referring to principles and criteria to which the Government must adhere, I point out and stress the fact that the delegation out of the work of the 8th Senate Commission has characteristics pointfully respectful of Article 76. They are so respectful that today, tomorrow or tomorrow the other Senate House will discuss and approve a delegation which has never been seen for the detail of delegation that has been launched by the Commission public works, thus giving the Government the possibility to be - I use the only adjective that I have in mind - respectful: no alternative to be strictly respectful of what the Commission has pointedly written, so pointily that a part of the delegation appears exactly like what will be the norm provided for in the legislative decree. The delegation contains some very important innovations. I mention only the most significant ones, the others have already mentioned the rapporteurs and have been mentioned by many of my fellow senators. Some of these innovations are the cover of a fault that had opened up over time not only with regard to procurement, but also with regard to the regulation of parts of democracy that representative democracy had left decidedly uncovered. There are two cases above all - lobbying or interest groups and public débat - which in the delegation are peeping out and then, of course, they will have to find support in specific legislation. Already in the delegation, however, there is talk of pressure groups and public debate and the legislator is invited to intervene with the speed and timing to which the delegation refers. It is expected that there will be a close relationship between code and regulation and therefore, compared to the past, the code will have a hic et nunc support on the regulation. There can be no time separation so much that in the past we have often found a regulation that is not in line with the principles that the delegation laid down. Often the regulation even intervened in reading not on the delegation, but on the code that had already been written trying, and sometimes succeeding, to modify the structure that the legislator had envisaged for the code itself. In this case, code and regulation will travel, let us say, at the same time and therefore there will be no separation of reading, nor will there be separation of political input from the legislator who could take a different form with the regulation. I have to focus on two points that were raised by the Left Group, Ecology and Freedom, which Senator Esposito has already clarified, and which concern the issue of concessions and the subject of the objective law. As far as concessions are concerned, I would like to make the specific words used by Senator Esposito: transitional arrangements do not mean extension, they do not correspond to an extension. I say this for clarity so as to have a single voice between those who have worked on the delegation and those who have led the delegation within the Commission. As regards the objective law, in many areas of the delegation reference is made to a regime that recalls an ordinary procedure. The reason is not only to put the objective law in a marginal position. The truth is that the objective law is born to achieve some goals that prove unattainable over time. There were three reasons in particular: to give strategic value to the work that was part of the law, to give certainty of calendar, to schedule to that work and to give certainty of financing. We can say that these three factors have been added only in very rare cases. When we go to see the times on the calendar, the ordinary time of the realization of a work does not differ only marginally from the times that the legislator had delivered to the objective law, therefore, if the times do not correspond, if the strategic reason fails and if there is even defect on the financing, so as to proceed on the highway that is that of the ordinaryity, having, I repeat, no difference in times and on the other points that were considered pillars of the objective law. There is the attempt, then - this is definitely new - to include in the delegation a rule that in the Commission, for a short time, we have defined as the protection of Made in Italy and which is detailed. There is an explicit reference to standard costs and the use of digital procedures and then three points are indicated which constitute the substantial part of the novelty. On the one hand, there is the role assigned to ANAC, not separately, but in synergy with the institutional, ministerial and non-institutional apparatus; then there is the centrality that is handed over to the project; thirdly, a framework that affects and paints in a different way the question of both the derogation and the variant, limiting and detailing the field, so that there is no more uncertainty of evaluation. With the delegation approved, there must also be effects, which there will be. One of them will be linked to the reform of Title V of the Constitution, where it is expected, in its re-reading, for that part, that the Government, as a decision-maker, will have in mind some major issues related to infrastructure works, which today are connected to a shared competence. This was the first of the great changes, while the second concerns the role, which needs to be rebuilt, of CIPE. In fact, if in the law we assign the centrality of the project - and the legislator repeats it within the code - we must also review the role and functions of the CIPE that looks at the same project several times. This would, of course, mean a time shear and an acceleration on the possibility of carrying out a great work, the times of which - I remind the House - were already very long, only in the last three years have become too long. Until 2011, a work that had a value of more than 200 million euros required a time of execution of about eleven and a half years; between 2011 and 2014, those eleven and a half years became almost fourteen (thirteen years and eight months). Too much time and too much uncertainty about implementation, which leads to additional problems. I should like to conclude by mentioning two issues. Today, the House is debating one of the fundamental rules for keeping Italy within Europe and for enabling the many social players to play a game without a biased referee. I am very grateful to the Members of the Commission for their vote on many of the amendments, because it became clear within it that the writing of the rules and the acceptance of amendments from majority and opposition meant choral writing of such an important rule. I hope that this House will continue to do so. Many of the proposals that emerged in the debate have already had a sort of green light on the part of the rapporteur, who spoke before me, and many of them also received a positive opinion from the Government. Second and last, the respect of the times: the European Union obliges us to close the delegation with the related decrees by April 2016. An Italian rule tells us that we must anticipate one month, therefore March 2016. The time we would have set - and I hope it will be accepted tomorrow by the Senate and then by the House - lies between the end of 2015 and the beginning of 2016. This would not lead to sanctions, of course, because we would be within the set time, but, by closing two months in advance, we would put the Government in a position to contribute to a number of advantages that time would give us. In expressing my thanks once again, I wish you every success in your work on the amendments we are about to consider. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Bertorotta and Romano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u28	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u29	Madam President, at the beginning, we are asking for the text to be limited to a, when we say that we cannot insert more regulation models than the minimum ones. In fact, we would like to consider the possibility of differentiating work above threshold and below threshold. As we know, the EU's thresholds are EUR 5.150,000 for public works contracts, EUR 400,000 for service contracts in non-standard sectors and about EUR 200,000 for services in ordinary sectors. We would therefore like to incorporate the first amendment, which calls for the deletion of point (a) of the system of aid. Unfortunately, in fact, since Italy is a country always a little'special, the food is used in a spurious way to make sure that there is a sale of the ability of the enterprises. We therefore wanted, at least under threshold, to try to limit the institute of welfare. In this sense, these two aspects marry each other. There are also other amendments which concern the overcoming of the objective law. The rapporteur has already said that the idea is that, but we wanted to explain the concept with reference to the objective law, wanted by the minister of infrastructure and transport of the government Berlusconi Pietro Lunardi, famous to the judicial chronicles of the time. Just to remember some, I mention all the work he did as a designer in the Variante di passico that he approved as Minister (he was then designer for the whole section of the galleries). Well, that objective law has created several problems. We therefore ask ourselves why we do not return to ordinary management, because in Italy we do not carry out works in an ordinary and not extraordinary way, with all the derogations that we know exist instead. There is also another series of amendments in which we intervene in various ways to raise a number of issues. We are asking, for example, for thresholds to be included with regard to contracting stations. We know that in Italy there are 33,000, undoubtedly many, but from these to 200 we think it is an excessive step. Therefore, in order to obtain a higher quality of the contracting stations and more possibility of doing things properly - sometimes it happens that in the small municipalities there is a building expert or a surveyor who has difficulty in following complex races - one could expect the existence of a purchasing centre, therefore a contracting station of regional level above the Community threshold (for which the theme of the threshold returns), but providing that below the municipalities, as currently provided for by the code of contracts, can be aggregated in order to find an intermediate solution between 33,000 and 200 stations that, frankly, represent an excessive concentration. And it is precisely the excessive concentration that occurs so many times in this text. I am referring, for example, to the powers conferred on ANAC, which has a very important function. ANAC is the controller, i.e. it performs a control function. However, when we sometimes see that everything is centered in the hands of ANAC, even the famous second-level adjustments, we wonder who it is that controls. In fact, if the ANAC issues the rules, no one can control it, since the controller and the controlled one would be the same body. We therefore call for greater transparency to be published before the DAC introduces binding rules, i.e. that these rules should be published so that all citizens, in fact, especially stakeholders, can ensure that the rules are not directed towards certain companies or sectors. This reminds us of what happened before the Merloni law, before 1994, when there was still a regulation in this country that has resisted more than a hundred years: the famous regulation n. 350 of 1895, which has resisted very many years in Italy. Sometimes there was a problem with ministerial circulars, in the sense that they were sometimes addressed to someone's needs. Therefore, to prevent such things from happening, it is necessary for someone to make a rule and someone else to check it. Who can do it better than stakeholders or citizens, since we are calling for transparency on these points? Then there is a whole range of other rules. There are amendments by the rapporteurs and other passages in which we ask, for example, that the system of qualification of the contracting stations be not in the head of the National Anti-corruption Authority (NAAC), but in the head of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport (MIT), for the same reasons that we discussed earlier that is because it is a task typically of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. At ANAC we leave the task of carrying out the checks and checks. This is also a problem of overlaps, as sometimes happens. We've already said about the food. There are also some amendments concerning subcontracting. It is important to know that it has been used transversally on so many points and historically it has been used to do things that are not perfectly lawful. Just to give an example of what happens with subcontracting, I would point out that the current rule provides that 30% of the prevailing category of a work can be subcontracted - when we do a public project the work is divided into categories - while nothing is said for the other categories, which can be subcontracted to 100%. Strange things sometimes happen, as happened also at the Expo in the contract of the "Piastra" where there are large parts of work given in subcontracting. Well, it must be avoided that large contractors or large companies use the subcontractor as a safe. Basically the subcontractor makes the invoice to the company; it presents the invoices and attaches the state of progress and then is paid and then pays the money to the subcontractor. This mechanism sometimes jams because when companies are in poor liquidity they pay a long time after the subcontractor and this causes damage especially to small ones. The direct payment to subcontractors, which is also shared by the rapporteurs and the Government, is fine and we ask that this be done not only for the subcontractors of the works, but also for the supplies because there too we must be careful. Then there are other aspects of detail. There is also the point raised by Senator Esposito that concerns dealers and exclusion procedures for project financing. On this particular point, however, I reserve the right to speak when we arrive at the amendment because it is a sensitive issue and, therefore, it must be addressed with particular attention. For now I have concluded, Madam President, but I reserve the right to speak in the vote on the amendments. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u30	Madam President, I speak very quickly because of the many amendments that have been tabled I would like to explain two which seem important to me. The first concerns subcontracting: to provide, as the rapporteurs do with an amendment approved in the Commission, that, before each invitation to tender, the undertaking involved already states which subcontractors are at the risk of the large undertaking taking a serious risk as to its freedom, once it has won the job, to find on the market the person and the undertaking that gives it the best service at the lowest cost, and above all puts the small local enterprises to the test. In fact, if, for example, Aosta's company participates in a race in Canicattì and has to look for its subcontractors before asking, surely it will not seek them in Canicattì because it will not have the time to do so and there will be no chance for the small company to participate in the work on a great work. As far as concessions are concerned, the amendment to my first signature 1.358 is intended to partially correct that of the rapporteurs. Indeed, the spirit of the amendment that drives towards greater competition and transparency is right, but it does not distinguish between old and new concessions, between very small and very large and does not distinguish between services, supplies and works. In this sense, I think that the amending proposal of the rapporteurs should be corrected, giving back full delegation to the Government in the writing of the decree to evaluate case by case and to arrive at decisions that, from punctual, become absolutely more appropriate and valid.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u31	Madam President, some of the amendments tabled by the Group will be presented by Senator Cervellini. I will concentrate, in particular, on two, three aspects, not least because the rapporteur has provided clarification in his reply, but I am not in our opinion exactly in line with what we had raised as a problem. First of all, I would like to address the issue of the so-called objective law, which, as can be seen from the file, is frequently used. We have tabled a number of amendments explicitly calling for the objective law to be exceeded and, in particular, for the application of the strategic environmental assessment on major works. In my opinion, the clarifications made by the rapporteur in his reply just now do not clarify what is the fundamental point. Delegation is already an act by which, as provided for in Article 76 of the Constitution, we lay down general criteria as precisely as possible. This is a delicate task, because the delegation will then result in legislative decrees and, therefore, more binding and clear are the objectives and criteria and more clearly, on the part of the Government, there will be no possibility of not respecting the will of the House. Let us say things as they are: unless it is explicitly said that priority must be given to abolishing the existing extraordinary procedures provided for in the objective law and all its implementing regulations absorbed in the procurement code, it is not said that we want to go towards overcoming the objective law. But that's not all. We propose also to add that, for the selection of the infrastructural works to be realized already included in the strategic program, in implementation of the objective law, these, on the one hand, will have to be subordinate to the update of the General Plan of the transports and the logistics, and, on the other, they will have to be subjected to the strategic environmental evaluation. I would like to remind you that we are examining a measure which, in this case, concerns the implementation of the European Parliament Directive of 26 February 2014 and other directives. You, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, took part in an interesting presentation of the ecofuture White Paper a short while ago, and you know, therefore, that the call for and indication of strategic environmental assessment is not a talk of anything else, but they are a crucial issue. In other amendments, we have provided for an even more explicit reference to the deletion of the objective law and, therefore, all the extraordinary procedures, with all that this entails. In fact, it is useless to have torn our clothes on the affair of the general contractor, which created, even in the economic world and in the system of small and medium-sized enterprises, a desertification because either it was linked to some specific ropes, or you were out of everything and you did not work. I would like to mention all the data, including those relating to the death of an infinite series of small and medium-sized enterprises which, thanks to the mechanisms of the objective law and the general contractor system, have been completely excluded from the market. Not to mention the question of the appointment of the director of the work, therefore the fact that the controller and the controller coincide in the same figure. So I think the simplest thing, if you really want to get over that law, would be to write it very clearly in the delegation, because we are talking about delegation. We then come to amendment 1,364, referring to the letters aaa) and bbb) of paragraph 1 and concerning the issue of motorway concessionaires. The rapporteur has said that it takes twenty-four months; we know that perfectly well, but the point is another one. The text explicitly states: "The start of the procedures to public evidence for the custody of new motorway concessions not less than twenty-four months before" - because it takes time, but we are talking only about the new motorway concessions - "the expiry of those in place, with revision of the system of motorway concessions, with particular reference to the introduction of a prohibition of clauses and provisions for extension". Not surprisingly, in letter bbb, it is referred to as a special transitional discipline for the granting of motorway concessions which have expired or close to the expiry date. So I would have expected the rapporteur to clarify better what is meant by transitional arrangements. Or - of the two at one - the letter aaa must be amended, specifying that the rule applies to all concessions that are about to expire, obviously with the scheduled time. If this passage is not removed, indicating that the rule applies only to new concessions, a precise criterion and indication is not established in the delegation, according to which the system of public evidence procedures must apply for all concessions, expired or due to expire next or future. As a result, our amendment rewrites the letter aaa), extending the rule to all concessions, and then repealing the letter bbb).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u32	Madam President, as we have also said in the general debate, on this occasion we must be clear and clear, because it is a draft law that delegates and not an ordinary draft law, which would allow us to bring a defined and therefore uninterpretable product. Secondly, I confirm the exceptional work that has been done in the Commission. However, there is the other side of the coin: exceptional work has been done in relation to the original text of the government delegation, of which we cannot but stigmatize modesty and vagueness. It has been said that we have even risked excessively detailed work; but on issues of this nature, i.e. not of an ideological nature, but of a very precise and concrete nature, absolutely technical, definition and precision are factors of absolute quality. That is why we say that we still need to clarify, clarify and strengthen everything that concerns the social clause sector, which is the subject of real dramas with regard to workers and workers and, very often, with regard to the communities that then use those services. We are talking about activities aimed at services where the element of labour and human labour is predominant... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u33	I apologise to you, Senator Cervellini, but I have to ask my colleagues to lower their voices, because it is difficult because of the buzz to proceed with the explanations of the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u34	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Therefore, where the human element is predominant, we need a formidable respect for national employment contracts and a clear and clear escape from the logic of the maximum decrease, with everything it has produced, not only in the delicate areas in which it often intervenes. I would like to give an example to everyone: the issue of multi-service contracts for schools, for children, for families and for the public sector, or in sensitive sectors, where the impact of the quality element is far greater than the economic aspect. I am also thinking, above all, of everything that refers to the world of corruption and to what has been determined concretely and materially in this regard, of which we are then going to discuss specific cases. The other aspect I want to highlight concerns the public debate, which will of course be regulated by a specific law and on which some draft laws have also been presented. In this case too, however, since it is a delegation, we must give a clear direction to the Government and therefore two aspects must be indisputable: the fact that it is binding and that we cannot make "three card games," all the more so when we open a confrontation with citizens, local administrations, associations and movements. We are not going to discuss the ideological aspects in a public debate, but we are talking about concrete works. Therefore, we cannot hold a debate or a binding debate on a vague title, asking whether we are in favour of the construction of a motorway or not, but we need to discuss a specific project, because behind a term there may be types of projects that lead to products and also to guidelines and judgments of local populations and administrations that may be absolutely different. We have seen, in fact, even in a recent past, that in some cases there has been a discussion on a particular project, but then it has been changed: despite this, we have continued to refer to the positive pronunciation of an administration or committee, expressed on the original project, or on a work with technical characteristics, engineering or environmental impact absolutely different. Finally, although this does not concern amendments tabled by our Group, I would like to focus on the counter-observations of the rapporteur, Mr Esposito, with regard to amendment 1,606, tabled by the rapporteurs themselves, which continue to be unconvincing. In article 1, paragraph 1, letter zz), the amendment proposes that after the words "obligation" for public and private entities, holders of already existing works or public services concessions or of new award, the words "not including those entrusted with the formula of project finance" are added. The amendment ends here, the point and end of the broadcasts. I therefore understand that this is a derogation for this type of activity and procedures. In this case, I find this absolutely contradictory: I do not repeat the considerations that have already been made, but I find it absolutely contradictory. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u35	I would like to inform the Assembly, as the Heads of Groups have been informed in advance, that the sitting will end at 7 p.m. to allow the Senators and Senators of the People's Area to take part in a meeting of the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u36	First of all I would like to apologize to the Deputy Minister, but I was careless so I don't know how to answer him; I will when I read the report. We have already said in general debate that there has been a great deal of work in the Commission, but the critical issue remains that it is a delegated law, and in this we are partly conditioned in the judgment, partly because the amendments cannot be specific. However, we have given some indication. For example, we have proposed to eliminate the vulnus of the target law, which did not produce the desired result. Some say that it has had effects in some areas and not in others; in fact statistics and data say that the objective law did not achieve the purpose for which it was written. Indeed, according to President Cantone, it is a criminal law; this is one of the reasons why we seek to eliminate it in all ways: to eliminate corruption, which means to be as transparent as possible. That is why some of the amendments go in this direction: to try to be more transparent so that there is one less chance for the underworld to get involved in these mechanisms, i.e. as a deterrent to the underworld being able to intervene in the field of public procurement. A number of amendments have been tabled on this subject. Hence, the breach of Law No 443 of 2001, known as the objective law, and the incentive to transparency. On this line ex post controls should also be made possible, so not only during the race but also later, when the race has already been won, to see if the conditions for which a given company has won are actually real. In some cases, Mr Cioffi and I have tabled amendments which go in a diametrically opposite direction, but with the same underlying philosophy. This is the case, for example, with Amendment 1,229, which deals with the obligation to publish in national or local newspapers to which we are absolutely opposed, because it is a way of financing certain periodicals which do not actually have a circulation... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I understand that what I am saying is not interesting; I hear a lot of talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u37	You're right, Senator, but I don't know how to call this House anymore. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u38	SCIBONA (M5S). Therefore, if Mr Cioffi proposes that the obligation to publish notices should be eliminated, Amendment 1,229 requires two publications to be included, with the aim of making them more transparent and, if necessary, at a time when there is a considerable shortage of work, with the hope of finding a job. This is provided that the publication is still free of charge, not as it is now. This is a case where Senator Cioffi and I are on diametrically opposed positions. There is another point I would like to focus on. All government policy is part of a very globalist plan and therefore we are talking about the free market and, in any case, about possible competition everywhere - an approach to which, as we know, we are absolutely opposed - unless we go to touch the interests of some friends. This is not to be taken as an accusation, but we cannot make globalist policies along the lines and then put in place an amendment that favours the award of contracts to local firms, because in any case they are customer brands, there is little to say. I understand that there may be the purpose of protecting local work, but there are examples where jobs are currently subcontracted or won by firms based abroad and abroad also have employment contracts. In this respect, this and other amendments aimed at making the transposition of minimum trade union guarantees mandatory for workers, so that workers are guaranteed in terms of safety and rights despite the fact that the company is outside the national territory. My amendment 1.332 to delete the letter rr) of paragraph 1, Article 1, concerns precisely this function, because if we move forward with a globalist idea of the world and the market, then we cannot allow there to be privileges relating to small or even large local companies: if free competition must be, it must be on all fronts, without exclusions. As far as the National Anti-corruption Authority is concerned, we have already said in general debate that we are very much in favour of the DAC taking control of the situation, but we would also like its opinions to be binding. For this reason, Amendment 1,232 aims to replace the words "also equipped" with the word "enjoyed" because the current wording has a mitigating effect compared to a real will to do something to eliminate corruption. Amendment 1,322, which Senator Cioffi has already mentioned, concerns the practice of good practice, which can be good but limited to the scope of a tender: there can be no transmigration of characteristics, because in this way the professionalism of the companies that compete in the races would be diminished. This practice is good when an ATI is set up, but the ATIs or subcontractors with certain characteristics must not lose their classification characteristics. The food can therefore be there but must, if necessary, be temporary, on the understanding that in our opinion there should not be at all, because everyone knows how to do their job and therefore there should be no possibility of entrusting to a subject a workmanship for which it is not classified. With regard to the extension of concessions, we try to eliminate as far as possible the extensions, to limit even temporarily, bureaucratically permitting, transit and to ensure that the passage time from one dealer to another is tight. We have also already pointed out that we are in favour of the direct payment of subcontractors. Amendment 1,394 also provides for a further specification to paragraph 1 (ggg) of Article 1. Given that we are talking about a delegation law, I would prefer that the reference be made to the state of progress of work (SAL) and to the invoice, because it is true that it cannot be otherwise, but verba volant and it is better if certain forecasts are put in writing. I should like to conclude here my illustration and, if necessary, I reserve the right to speak later. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u39	Madam President, Amendment 1,208 seeks to replace a word in paragraph 1, Article 1, but I would be happy to hear an explanation from the rapporteurs on what is meant by laying down closed and non-derogable procedures for public procurement. I tried to understand if the term "closed procedures" is included in the literature, but I didn't find it. I do not see the rapporteur here, and I think it would be normal for him to listen to the explanation of the amendments, since he should give an opinion, hopefully not a priori.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u40	Sometimes it happens that the rapporteur moves away from his place, but it would be preferable to warn the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u41	EXPOSED by Stefano, rapporteur. I'm sorry, I wasn't there for me, but I was listening. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I thank the rapporteur and acknowledge his active and attentive presence. Amendment 1.213 proposes the deletion from the delegation to the Government of the possibility of introducing innovative solutions in regulated matters with particular regard to the development of infrastructures and anything else, because I find it an expression so vague that it can understand everything. In a delegation you should not talk generically about innovative solutions, because it could mean anything. I would consider it more appropriate to specify what kind of solutions this is, because - I repeat - this seems to be a reference to whatever solution comes into mind to the Government. The intentions of the delegation are probably good, but I am not counting on the implementation of these good intentions. Amendment 1,223 calls for the public interest to be taken into account as part of the development of the economic and technical capacity requirements necessary for participation in tenders to have the largest potential number of participants. I believe that it is not unfounded to fear that, when defining requirements for economic and technical capacity, we will always ensure the same people, the famous known ones that the President-in-Office of the Council promised to eliminate or at least remove from their privileges, which instead have been more rooted than ever before, confirmed and strengthened in their ability to enjoy privileged positions. Therefore, there will have to be minimum requirements, but they cannot be used to establish that, in practice, only those who already operate the various activities that can be contracted can participate in the tenders. Amendment 1,230 contains a proposal for intervention to paragraph 1 (o), which provides for the allocation to the National Anti-corruption Authority - which has become the refugium sinnerum of any problem - a series of powers that leave me puzzled: in particular, it provides for powers of control, recommendation, precautionary intervention, deterrent and sanctioning. I welcome Mr Matteoli's amendment proposing the removal of the reference to precautionary measures, deterrents and sanctions, which goes along with my amendment, which seeks to give priority to these various powers of intervention which are intended to give the national anti-corruption authority the criterion of respect for the freedom of enterprise. It cannot be the Authority that determines how, when, what, why and, perhaps, who too: with all respect for the National Anti-corruption Authority, you can not go from the arbitrary power of perhaps a general contractor to an equally arbitrary power. It is, of course, hoped that the Authority's powers will be exercised in the best way possible, just as it was hoped that the previous subject would exercise them. For the truth, the precedents for which the same praised Authority has decided to entrust all the restaurant service of the Expo to a company without a tender and with its own blessing does not make me want to attribute further powers to this Authority, while respecting its work, which has often proved useful and which however it must continue to carry out. I would also like to refer to the amendments I signed, 1.247, 1.248 and 1.249, which relate to paragraph 1 (u). Alongside a series of rather balanced proposals, there is the criterion introduced by letter u), which seems to me rather rigid, providing the obligation even for the municipalities not the provincial capital - we are also talking about cities above the 100,000 inhabitants - to resort to forms of aggregation and centralization of clients at least regional level. If you think that less centers of commission there are and the better, then let's do only one, so that, when a Municipality of 100 inhabitants in the mountains of Sicily or Piedmont has to buy a nib, turn to a Roman office. However, there is Article 5 of the Constitution, which provides for greater decentralisation and respect for local autonomy. If, therefore, we leave the autonomy, but we want to go even to the supraregional level for the purchasing power stations, even if for the trusts of more than one million euros, it is to be said that one million euros is a frankly small figure when it comes to a municipality. In any case, if it is true that, regardless of the size of the municipality, there must be maximum respect for the taxpayer's money and so on, it is not unifying the things that improve the situation. Has it occurred to anyone that the Commune in which there is the most acclaimed case of corruption and maladministration is the greatest of all, something that does not happen in the Small Municipalities? Will there be a reason? Are we gonna pack this up? We could entrust to the management of the Municipality of Rome all the clients: it would seem to me a great idea of these times. For this reason I propose first of all to delete the word "at least" and to replace the word "regional" with the expression "provincial" or "wide area" because they want to abolish the Provinces, but then everything is done at the provincial level: with Italicum there will be 100 colleges probably provincial, as well as the graduations for the school will be provincial. We are talking about a large area to update us, but talking about Provinces would be the most reasonable thing. With amendment 1.249, then, it is always intended to include in paragraph 1 (u), the reference to the principle of subsidiarity, so that decisions are taken at a level as close as possible to the citizen, also in order to avoid the amounts smaller and certainly those less than 40,000 euros: in fact, one cannot even devastate the territories for which in certain realities, which are already in difficulty finding themselves decentralized compared to the centralization of all the services (tribunals, post offices), one no longer even gives the option to sell a nib - which is no longer sold - or to make the smallest of the supplies because everything must be centralized at a supraregional level. Frankly, this is something that he really does not understand: maybe you should go for a tour, not only tourist, in the realities of the Provinces and small municipalities to discover that, perhaps, they are delicious from a tourist point of view also because they have the possibility to work on their own and not depend on some supraregional or maybe supranational body to buy something or to repair a wall or a sidewalk. Two other proposals concern lists of selection boards by public procurement for the provision of services. In particular, with amendment 1,276 I propose to introduce measures aimed at the progressive inclusion of young people, because even in this case, if we focus exclusively on the requirements of morality (for goodness' sake, there would be no other), competence and professionalism, it ends that there are always the same individuals who perhaps, in the long run, take advantage of their position. Secondly, considering the list of candidates to be provided, the DAC would be given the opportunity to determine who works and who does not, also because, in order to belong to the above list, it requires a number of requirements that DAC itself lays down. If you draw a draw, you must then do among all those who are included in the list to be part of the jury, of course among those who have the ability to judge on these things. Evidently not everyone is able to do everything but, if you do the draw, it is done among all, also because it does not involve any cost. I also propose the same type of intervention, with amendment 1,291 relating to paragraph 1 (ee), which refers to the definition of the person responsible for the work and the director of the work. Once again I say: space for young people and draw among all. In this case it would be up to the Ministry; here too I propose to widen the meshes otherwise from someone's arbitrariness you switch to the arbitrariness of another. Of course, we must always hope that those who have arbitrariness, or rather discretion, use it in the best way, but we do the rules precisely to prevent and not to rely on someone's good heart or honesty. There are rules precisely because not everyone is honest. With amendment 1,367 on paragraph 1 (bbb), which, in my opinion, is not very clear and which concerns the particular discipline for motorway concessions that expire, evidently in shorter terms than those provided for in the previous letter aaa), I propose to introduce a clause in the letter aaa) that says that basically we must apply the principles contained in this letter also for the concessions that are shorter-term, of course with deadlines compatible with reality, which, among other things, has also been illustrated, while talking about another aspect of the matter, by the rapporteur, Senator Esposito. Amendment 1,370 proposes to delete the word "minimum" in paragraph 1 (cc) because when it is said that we need to identify, in terms of custody procedures, how to ensure the minimum levels of competitiveness, transparency and anything else provided for by European legislation, I do not say that we should write "maximum" but remove the word "minimum" in order to avoid being forced to remain at the lowest level. In this respect, I believe that we should be able to make a more incisive contribution. Amendment 1,378 also concerns the letter fff) on public debate and, beyond the opportunity to do so or not, I propose to delete the words "debat public" because they are words in another language that are perfectly coincident etymologically and literally to the Italian words, so to envisage forms of public debate inspired by the model of the débat public seems to me almost a tautology. We leave the French model which, apparently, is considered appropriate. It is a matter of drafting or, as one would say, of drafting: there is the Italian language that is even more specific than the languages spoken in other countries. As the last thing, with amendment 1,407, I propose to delete paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 5 of Decree-Law No 133 of 12 September 2014, so-called Italy, concerning motorway concessions. It is true that it is going to expire naturally, but I would not like, in the blackberries of the adoption of this measure - as we use to say - that, for obvious reasons, it will not enter into force by the end of the month, someone would have the idea of making a new extension, as was already done last year. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u42	Madam President, I would like to make a number of general and complementary comments to what I have said in general, rather than specifically explaining the amendments, if you will allow me to do so. We have tabled, yes, some amendments, which - I repeat - are complementary to the work done, considering that it can be considered serious, since we have written it in the Commission with four hands with the Government, and that thanks to it we can give that abbreviation that our country is waiting for with regard to this important reform. It is a challenge, which we have accepted both from a technical point of view, given that we have entered a great deal of detail and from a political point of view, and we have done so by virtue of the fact that at last this time - and I remember that this is a delegated law - the Government has taken a fairly cautious approach to Parliament and the Commission. We have received a proposal from the Government, on which we have made our views, and, in fact, we have taken a blank sheet, we have tried to rewrite it according to the sensitivity of the Commission and Parliament. I therefore believe that a good job can be judged. The amendments we have tabled are complementary to all this work. Clearly, what we are dealing with is so articulated and complex that at this moment perhaps it is not the perfection of the writing that we must seek, but the fact of changing diametrically vision regarding the code of procurement and getting our country out of that juniper that we have known in these long years. From there, the need to make the objective law arose: in fact, if the ordinary procedure fails to do the works, it is necessary to achieve them by an extraordinary procedure, according to the objective law, which in spirit we share and shared. It is obvious that, with this challenge, we want to ensure that our country too can be approved of the normal practices in force on the face of the earth, that is, there are no procedures, unless they are emergent, due to contingent facts, and that therefore making contracts and works falls within the normal procedure of a civil country. It is a great challenge that we have accepted in writing this text, which - as I will then say more redundantly in an explanation of vote - is not a blank delegation that we give to the Government, but a confidence that we give to ourselves and to Parliament. That, from my point of view, is crucial. There are many novelties in the guidelines of this delegation law that we expect to reread when we pass the ball to the government, to see what it wants to do. We are absolutely not hostile to overcoming the objective law, but I would like to differentiate the fact that there are strategic works and the objective law, which I allow to separate. The strategic works remain, which are certainly not exclusively identifiable in the 25 works we have seen in the DEF (among which, I remember it for those who have little memory, there is also the Florence tramway, which is definitely not a strategic work of the country, and we could talk about it for a week). Having said that, the strategic works necessary for a country must be lucky enough to be realized in a civil country in which the ordinary procedure for their realization has a streamlined and productive path. It's definitely a challenge. The amendments submitted to abundantiam aim to further improve, if possible, this delegation law. Everyone can then exquisite and make his own considerations: we would miss it, we are in democracy. To find a pretext for not sharing this passage would have been simple, but I think it is reductive to try to trivialize the meticulous and scrupulous work done in the Commission by pointing out a possible weakness of this document and therefore presenting amendments that might appear "pretestuous." Ours has been a cautious, soft and yet collaborative attitude; it is understood that from now on we will watch, as we have done in the drafting of the text and as we will do in its implementation, so that there really are the conditions to be able to give our country something that is not projected into the future but extremely contemporary, because unfortunately at this moment we are not even able to live the contemporaryity in the matter of the necessity of a reform of the code of contracts. Synthesizing, the hope is that in our country there really is the possibility of not seeing any more things on which we have fought extremely hard. It is not possible, aspect attributable exclusively to our country, that works worth 500 million euros have reserves above the auction base; it is something that is not found anywhere on the face of the earth, so much so that in Italy the companies and the design studios have more lawyers than technicians. We are the only country that has the reservists, the ones who make reservations before they even start the work. In this respect, I have tabled an amendment, which will not be accepted because it is perhaps somewhat provocative, aimed at creating a bad list of companies using the reserve system in a scientific way, regardless of the project. With regard to the use of the integrated contract - also this prerogative of our country because, except for really specific cases for very particular realizations from the point of technical and technological visa, it does not exist anywhere else on the face of the earth or at least does not exist in Europe or in the Western countries - we of the League have proposed immediately a moderate use if not the abolition. This request was in most cases shared by all the audits in the Commission, first and foremost by Canton. It was not shared by the CEO of the State Railways and this says a lot, from my point of view, about the failure of certain works realized with integrated contract. In fact, I believe that the first act that any kind of administration must do in approaching a work, strategic or not, is to have the certainty of where it wants to go and what it wants to do. Therefore, the first mandate to be conferred is the one relative to the design so that it can decide, until the last nail, all the characteristics of the work and put in condition who will compete to its realization of being able to do it in equal weapons: whoever will be better will finally win the execution of the work, as happens in the rest of the world. I conclude by saying that this is an important step forward for the country, a challenge. I am certain that there are the characteristics and conditions to overcome this challenge, if the papers will be written by the government in the right way. We have in the country technicians and companies that achieve excellent results abroad, which they cannot do in our country for the juniper that we all know. This is the anomaly and also what leaves the bitter in everyone's mouth. This is an important challenge which, from a political point of view, we share - and I thank the Deputy Minister once again, as well as the President of the Commission and the rapporteur - for their cooperation. We managed, for once, to keep a little 'distant the excessively invasive approach that the Government always has on these occasions. Let's hope we're not disappointed in a second phase, and we'll see about that. We don't want to make any lawsuits. As far as the amendments are concerned, I reserve the right to speak in an explanation of vote on those that are particularly dear to us and relate to specific areas. In this case too, we will try to continue to have a dialogue with both the rapporteur and the Government and, in any case, also on these amendments, a peaceful and constructive approach, as has been the case up to now.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u43	Madam President, I am speaking very briefly. I would like to draw your attention to Amendment 1,253, which, in accordance with the priorities of the most economically advantageous tender criterion - we are talking about this - provides that, by decree, the criteria must be defined in accordance with which the price criterion can be applied instead of cases and thresholds of amount within which it is permitted in accordance with the current wording. This is necessary in order to take account of the extent and complexity of the cases falling within the scope and the excessive rigidity that a precise case law would impose. By law, it is appropriate and useful, however, to indicate the criteria and not thresholds and cases, thus avoiding the real risk of introducing a rule that is not adequate in relation to the individual situations that occur in practice. I would also like to highlight amendment 1.294, which concerns the integrated procurement, which proposes to go beyond the quantitative indication of the current 70% wording in favour of a qualitative approach. The amendment provides for the deletion of the quantitative criterion, given the 70% threshold for works or components with significant innovative content compared to the total value of the contract, as a condition for the use of the integrated contract. The reference to a purely quantitative criterion - this is the reason - in terms of the percentage of cost relative to the total amount is not applicable and not relevant - in my view - with respect to an element, the innovative scope, which is characterized precisely by its qualitative content. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u44	Madam President, Amendment 1,228 is very simple and aims to replace the words: 'in no more than two national newspapers and in no more than two local newspapers' with the following words: 'in no less than two and in no more than three national newspapers and in no less than two and in no more than three local newspapers'. What is it? It is advertising and transparency that are properly referred to in this delegation for procurement procedures. The proposed text sets out: "in no more than two national newspapers". Why? The risk is that of abuse and, therefore, it is said to delegate the Government, but it is clear that it must be no more than two national newspapers and no more than two local newspapers. So a national newspaper and a local newspaper are also possible. What is the purpose of the amendment? There must be at least two national and local newspapers and, as the costs then fall on the contracting station, to avoid abuse a ceiling is set, which is no more than three. It creates, therefore, the balance of a minimum of two and a maximum of three. I say this because, expecting not more than two national newspapers and not more than two local newspapers, it can be even one. I believe that, to give you maximum knowledge at local level when there are contracts (but also at national level), the use of the Internet and other certainly facilitates and helps. However, for those who are used to reading newspapers, giving the possibility, with the forecast of a minimum roof and a maximum roof, at least for a number of years, I think it is a fairer thing. That would be to say that we guarantee transparency, without any abuse by contracting stations. I therefore consider this forecast to be balanced and I call for the utmost attention at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u45	Madam President, I would like to draw your attention to the points made by the rapporteur and the Government, rather than to the amendments 1,255 and 1,293, since they do not conform to the logic of a delegated law, and I announce that they will be withdrawn and transformed into agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u46	Madam President, this measure is particularly expensive to me, not least because it reviews the replacement of European directives, including, in particular, Directive 2004/17/EC, but also Directives 2004/18/EC, 2014/23/EU, 2014/24/EU/EU, as regards procurement in ordinary and also excluded sectors (energy, water, transport and services). I would like to explain, in particular, Amendments 1,264 and 1,265. I begin with the explanation of amendment 1.265. One of the most significant innovations in the Directive is the European legislator's favour for the award criterion according to the most economically advantageous tender. Quality finally comes to be a central element of evaluation so that the choice of the contract is tied to the best value for money. In particular, in recitals 89 and 90, the European legislator, with a linearity and simplicity far from the often too technical and twisted language of our national legislators, in ten lines considers that the most economically advantageous offer has a priority concept rank and warns that, in order to avoid confusion with its current meaning, a different term is needed to translate this concept, namely the best value for money. In other words, the directive definitively undermines the principle of equivalence of award criteria, favours the criterion of the offer more economically advantageous than that of the maximum reduction and therefore gives it the meaning of better value for money. In addition, in recital 90, in order to further encourage quality orientation, it should even be possible for Member States to prohibit or limit the use of the only price or cost criterion to assess the most economically advantageous offer: on the one hand, therefore, very little room for the lowest price criterion and, on the other hand, the new concept of the most economically advantageous offer, in which quality becomes a priority. In my two amendments, binding myself to this European directive, which is so clear and of common sense, because of the new trend it is appropriate - in my view - that the criterion of the most economically advantageous offer should apply especially for the award of contracts or concessions for services that have a profound impact on the quality of life of the citizen (transport, mail, energy, water). In these sectors, a choice based on the lowest price, regardless of the quality parameters, can also lead to poor benefits, with significant damage to the whole community. And we must not try too hard with imagination: just take a tour of Rome to see what happens everywhere, based on the concept that those who least spend often spend more and, sometimes, spend even more. The other amendment, 1.264, which is particularly dear to me, aims to exclude the intermediary of the CONSIP from entrusting tasks that require a high level of professionalism and competence, also because of the role of responsibility that the selected persons will have to assume. In fact, CONSIP, under the category of professional services and advice, can be an intermediary for the assignment of highly qualified professional services. The classic example, which is closer to me because it is my job, is that of the competent doctor, that is, the doctor who, in accordance with Article 38, of the single text on health and safety at work, is appointed by the employer for risk assessment and health surveillance and has a key role in the protection of health in the workplace, whose nature is strictly intellectual and requires high professionalism and high specialisation. Well, public administrations increasingly (currently more than 600 administrations across the national territory) turn to the CONSIP as purchasing power station, concluding special agreements. So it happens that the mediation of the CONSIP in the races does not allow a choice of the competent doctor according to quality parameters. On the contrary, often the criterion used is the reduction of the auction, and the health of the workers is lost and the quality is not guaranteed. In addition, the manager responsible, as an employer, will also have to answer criminally for the work of the competent doctor, although he has had no role in his choice. Other examples may be the assignments of legal advice, engineering, public interests, architects and other, equally sensitive, which must be protected by quality and merit-oriented selections as much as possible. Therefore, from this point of view, CONSIP is an inconsistency that goes against the new European directive and also does not guarantee quality and - let's say - often not even the best price. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u47	The remaining amendments are set out. Since the amendments tabled to Article 1 are a large number and we must all listen carefully to the opinions of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, who have appreciated the circumstances, I shall refer the continuation of the debate on the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u50	[[Brusio.]] I would ask colleagues who wish to leave the Chamber to do so without disturbing. Mr Albano (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since the late evening of last Thursday, more than 100 migrants have started to crowd the flowerbed in front of the Italian border in the city of Ventimiglia. Many of them arrived in Italy facing the crossing of the Mediterranean on board the infamous "boats." Just to refresh the memory, in March we saw a national mobilization against the massacres of the Mediterranean and the horror of the drowned dead in search of a better future towards our European continent, fleeing from wars, persecution and inhumane situations. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] In Ventimiglia part of the flow that was in Rome at the Tiburtina station and in Milan at the Central Station came, as from 26 May to 15 June the border with Austria witnessed the suspension of the Schengen Treaty, on the occasion of the simultaneous development of the G7 in Germany. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u51	Excuse me, Senator Albano, I'm interrupting. The subject that you are discussing is important, and I therefore call on colleagues to lower their voices.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u52	Mr Albano (PD). This is obviously not an issue, Madam President. Ventimiglia, a species of Lampedusa of the North, with connections and infrastructures lacking, that have the tendency to make it isolated from the rest of Liguria and the bordering Piemonte, has become hand by hand a kind of "cap," welcoming at least 80 people a day, that arrive with the trains from Milan or Rome. But why this situation? The Treaty of Dublin, signed in 2008 when it governed the center-right - Minister was precisely Maroni, who, together with his secretary Matteo Salvini, now shouts "Everyone at home," "Fathers at home," "We will not accept more migrants" and threaten illegal sanctions against the municipalities that respect the indications of prefectures and remember that we are all human beings - provides that the request for asylum by the migrant is made in the country of access of the European Community. And we have become the door of Europe for these desperate ones, who now crowd the door of Italy, Ventimiglia. Personally I spent three days at the border and advise all my parliamentary colleagues to go personally to see, look into the face of the children, mothers, fathers and children, even a few months, who are now welcomed at the railway station Ventimiglia, and the desperate who resist three nights on the rocks. How dare you tell them to come home? Have you ever seen the images of the places they run away from? No, we in the peaceful West can't have an idea. Maybe our grandparents, first migrants and then victims of the war, but we don't, unfortunately. As the late Enrico Berlinguer said: "We are saved and we go forward if we act together and not just one by one." This sentence I address to all of us parliamentarians, here to represent the Italian citizens, to the Government, to all the Member States of the European Union, and to the twenty thousand, who in these days are proving to be a model for all Italians, bringing incessantly their solidarity and their collaboration, so that all - and I say all - Italians and migrants, can feel better in this emergency. Italy must not be left alone. The Treaty of Dublin needs to be changed. None of us can think of getting away with turning our backs and curbing migratory flows in a violent and inhuman way. Already the fact that Italy is a land of transit and not of destination should make us think. The slogans that some leaders wave, the expression of the most bizarre populism, reveal their unsubstantiatedness. Thank you Ventimiglia, thank you Ventimiglia, for the example of humanity that you are giving today to Italy, as before you Sicilians. However, the government needs a more incisive response, both at European level and, pragmatically, in terms of emergency management funds such as this, because one cannot leave only a municipal administration, the Red Cross, which is managing the health aspect tirelessly. And, in particular, I would like to highlight the aspect of the necessary cultural mediation, entrusted to young volunteers, including an eighteen-year-old of Moroccan origin who has been in Italy for nine years. I still remember her tears, exhausted by tiredness, tears of disappointment for not being able to convince a family, with pregnant mother and young children, to abandon the flowerbed and to go to the station to receive assistance, terrified of what might have awaited them by accepting the transfer. The protest of migrants is peaceful but determined and hence the rejection of the food of many. They call for a reunion with relatives and friends who have obtained asylum in other European countries. I conclude by thanking again for the work carried out by the prefecture and the police station of Imperia, Rete Ferroviaria Italiana, which has made available its own spaces, and all the associations and citizens who incessantly bring their help. You are the best Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u55	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Madam President, I read a hallucinating story on the blog of 'Il Fatto quotidiano' today. A fifty - five - year - old family man was sentenced a few days ago to a year and a half in prison for cultivating five marijuana seedlings. This is the end of the story, but let's start from the beginning. In the middle of 30 years our man discovers with terror that he is epileptic. Life instantly turns upside him down: he enters and leaves the hospital, he struggles to keep his normal working rhythms (he is a cameraman); he is padded with sedatives and antiepileptic drugs, which cause him prolonged sleeps and vomiting. His is a serious form of epilepsy, so much so that he endangers his own life. Attacks follow each other at an increasingly fast pace. The man is desperate. The job is lost. Sometimes things seem to be better, but there is never a real way out until it reads on the Internet that marijuana helps in cases of epilepsy. He decides to try; he buys some. Indeed, the benefits are obvious. Tell your doctor about it. Slowly, with the help of marijuana, they start climbing drugs. Things are finally getting better. Man does not want to give up his restored life. The medicine, however, is not clear on this: the neurologist authorizes it to use cannabinoids, the doctor of trust denies the cure. He sees the concrete effects and decides to take responsibility. To avoid contact with drug dealers, grow some plans at home. Meanwhile, the drugs are almost zero, the drowsiness has been overcome, as well as nausea and dizziness, and life begins again, until in 2008 the police notice the five plants. And the man is arrested. In the sentence of the trial for very direct - wow, what efficiency against such criminal! - it is said that therapeutic use should be presumed. Yet, the sentence is two years and eight months in prison plus a fine of 12,000 euros. The appeal sentence reduces the sentence to one and a half years and the Cassation confirms. This happens in the past few days, after seven years of trial: seven years in which justice has wasted time, money, resources behind a sick person, in serious health problems that life had devastated by a disease and tried to get back on track. Well, these are the facts. Today marijuana, for those who do not know - in my opinion, many of you do not know - is sold at the pharmacy, its name is Bedrocan and it grows a Dutch company. Imagine the paradox in which we live: if a Dutch company grows marijuana and sells it in a pharmacy, everything is fine; if it is cultivated by any person at home, it is a criminal and is sentenced to a year and a half in prison. What I have read to you, ladies and gentlemen, is a true story of suffering and pain, the result of hypocrisy, ignorance and absurdity of our legislation on the use of marijuana. As you know, I presented, with the 5 Star Movement, the bill n. 1858 that aims to allow the cultivation for personal use also therapeutic of four plants. The history that I have read to you shows the importance and priority of the debate and - I hope - the immediate adoption of this bill. My invitation, therefore, is to the immediate calendarization of the same. The sick, ladies and gentlemen, dear President, cannot wait any longer. Every day that passes is a day of suffering for these people. I believe it is an act of human and legal civilization, a due act of the new policy towards the citizens, especially towards all those who must also add to their suffering the damage deriving from the ignorance and ignorance of the parties of the old politics. The 5 Star Movement is close to the needs of citizens and the bill of which I am the first signatory constitutes a clear proof of this. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u56	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-465.ana.u57	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 17 June, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.53.
