ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 29 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u4	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. I take note of the presence of Senator Di Giorgi, not registered by the system. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 11:11 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u10	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, having had the opportunity, in 1994, to visit Mr Calogero Mannino in prison, who was in protective custody for a year and a half, and then to be fully discharged of the objections that had been attributed to him, I speak only to inform the House that he was again acquitted, for not having committed the fact, about the matter of the negotiation between the Mafia and the State. I believe that this is good news, but it also deserves a reflection on the fact that a colleague of ours, for almost thirty years, has been subjected to trials and imprisonments on the basis of totally inconsistent objections. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC), FI-PdL XVII, PD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u11	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1676, already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u12	Mr President, in Article 28 concerning the supervision and management of waste, I have tabled Amendment 28,509, which calls for the deletion of paragraph 5. This paragraph contains in fact a little game that we have been carrying out for some time, making again effective paragraphs 2 and 3 of article 234 of law no. 152 of 2006, which had been repealed by the so-called measure unlocks Italy, a few months ago. We must therefore ask ourselves what this legislation contains, and in particular paragraph 2 of Article 234. Article 234 deals with the recycling of polyethylene, i.e. a certain type of plastic. We must first ask ourselves what is the objective we want to achieve and where we want to go. If we want to achieve a circular economy, i.e. a total recycling, a total re-use of the material, we must consider that paragraph 2, limiting the recycling of polyethylene, which does not concern packaging, to materials containing 100% polyethylene only, i.e. agricultural sheets only, pending a ministerial decree, which has never been issued since 2006, in fact limits the collection and recycling of this material. Ben managed to eliminate this provision in the decree unlocks Italy, thus widening the possibility to collect and recycle the material even if not entirely made up of 100% polyethylene, also because the ministerial decree never arrived. Now inexplicably - I do not explain it - the request is made to reimpose the provision aimed at setting a limit to collection and recycling. Why do we set a limit on collection and recycling? I ask you this question. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u13	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u14	The opinion naturally supports Amendments Nos 28,550 and 28,502 (identical to Amendment No 28,503) but also Amendments Nos 28,508, 28,509 and 28,510, which are identical to each other, and Amendment No 28,512. The opinion is opposed to Amendments 28,500, 28,501, 28,504, 28,505, 28,506 (identical to Amendment 28,507) 28,511, 28,513, 28,514 and 28,515. Finally, the opinion was in favour of the G28,200 agenda and opposed to the amendments aimed at adding additional articles after Rule 28.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u15	The Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u16	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 28.550. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pending the expiry of twenty minutes from the notice referred to in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.18 a.m. and resumed at 11.31 a.m.) I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 28,550, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 28,500 is therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28,501, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 28.502, tabled by the rapporteur, which is essentially identical to Amendment 28.503, tabled by Senator Fucksia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.504, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28,505, tabled by Senator Martelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.506, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators, identical to amendment 28.507, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 28,508, which is identical to Amendments Nos 28,509 and 28,510.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u19	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, we shall vote in favour of our amendment and the other two identical ones, which are deleted from paragraph 5, because I think they are extremely important and we welcome the rapporteur's favourable opinion, because it is a solution to a problem which has arisen concerning the recovery of polyethylene. In restoring, with paragraph 5, the old paragraph 2 of the Italian release there was the risk that, in the end, the cost of recovery and disposal would fall entirely on the farmers. That is why we have tabled a deleterious amendment to the past rule in the Commission, which we will clearly support.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u20	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.508, tabled by Senators Marinello and Giuseppe Esposito, identical to Amendments 28.509, tabled by Senator Nugnes and other Senators, and 28.510, tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u21	Our work is being followed by the students and teachers of the Aeronautical and Technical Institute "De Pinedo-Colonna" in Rome, which we greet and thank for their presence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u22	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.511, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 28.512, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 28.513, 28.514 and 28.515 have been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the G28.200 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 28.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u25	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in fact, the vote on the article is to be used to justify the vote in favour of Senator Arrigoni's amendments on paragraph 3. Very often in our provisions the institute of annexes is used, even for more complex and longer matters than the one dealt with in paragraph 3 of this article. It would have been more correct, by the Ministry or the proposers, to attach the list of persons to whom this paragraph 3 is referred. In fact, if we read it carefully, we see that it is a norm certainly ad personas: in this case fifteen people, plus a small percentage of increase on the possibility of external call. My absolute sharing of the proposal to delete paragraph 3, which has not been accepted because, obviously, under this paragraph there are names and surnames (which would have been more transparent to explain, when approving the rule), leads me to declare my abstention on the article.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u28	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, on monitoring and waste management, we regard the direct transfer to the Ministry of the Environment of personnel today in a position of detachment and command at the Dicastery itself as negative. In fact, we had tabled the amendment referred to earlier by Senator D'Alì. Equally, we stress how, in times of spending review, that also on this occasion is disregarded (so much, as in financial, there is the debt that can continually increase to finance spending commitments), both intolerable and for the reorganization of the Ministry of the Environment is expected to increase the limits set for the managerial positions of the first and second bands. From 15 to 30 percent for the first-range assignments and 10 to 20 percent for the total second-range assignments, the number is increased. For these reasons, the Northern League Group will vote strongly against Article 28 of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u31	NUGNES (M5S). Mr President, our Group welcomes this attempt to reorganise Article 28 in order to facilitate separate collection. We believe, however, that, as in all the measure, even in the good parts we have not been brave enough and effective enough. Above all, I would like to stress the opposition to the rapporteur's amendment 28.550 deleting point (f) of paragraph 1. Point (f) stipulated that the Ministry, which replaces the National Waste Observatory, should receive, by obligation, from the municipalities the transmission of data related to the separate collection of waste, which had to be collected from the database of the local observatory. It seems to us that the lack of this mechanism can actually affect the objective. Among other things, an amendment by my colleague, Mr Moronese, also provided for a specific web area dedicated to the national waste observatory. We must actually be more courageous in these choices. We must remember that in 2012 we should have reached 65% of separate collection. Instead, we are still with a government that talks about creating 12 new incinerators throughout Italy. Do we realize that we are not moving in the right direction? Yet, when we have the opportunity to deal with this with a measure and take more than a year to do so, we are weak and inefficient.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u32	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 28 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 28,0.500, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28,0.501, tabled by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u35	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I would like to begin by pointing out that this will be the first Italian law to mention green economy in the title, and this is not a trivial fact, nor a obvious one, but the sign of a new awareness: it is a starting point and certainly not a point of arrival for our growth. However, we must say that already in this period the companies of the green economy have continued to increase their turnover, both in Europe and in our country, and the Italian ones listed have had margins of yield above the European average. It is true that perhaps we lacked some courage, but in this connection we have given great importance to strengthening environmental protection and to pushing the green economy in the direction of the circular economy, in which any refusal is considered a resource, in a circular and closed cycle, with a reduced impact on ecosystems. It supports separate collection, penalized landfilling and disposal in incinerators without energy recovery; for this reason €15 million is allocated to support companies able to make innovation, using waste materials from disassembly and separate collection. I hope this is really the beginning of no more food for the waste-to-eaters. There are 35 million euros for the projects of municipalities and communities with more than 100,000 inhabitants to use more bikes, car sharing, public transport and also the so-called footbus (supervised pedestrian routes and safe home-school). Whoever chooses the bike to go to work will be covered by the INAIL insurance and this is also definitely a step forward. Many articles are dedicated to the prevention of hydrogeological risk and asbestos reclamation. It is clear that in our country there is still much to do on these issues, but this listening and sharing work marks a change of pace on the green themes that will allow us to present ourselves head-on at the United Nations Conference on Climate Change in Paris, the famous COP21 on the environment and climate. It will be an occasion in which Italy, also thanks to this measure, will arrive ready and able to give the example of a virtuous country on environmental policies. For these reasons, we in Italy will vote in favour of this environmental link. [[Applause from Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u38	LIUZZI (CoR). Mr President, the House is about to take a decision on the environmental draft law to promote green economy measures and to limit the excessive use of natural resources, approved by the House on 13 November 2014. It is a text that comes from afar and has a long path, even more long-lived than this Government: in fact it arouses a strange feeling to read among the notes that the initiative was of the Letta Government and, specifically, of the then Minister Orlando. Today, November 4, 2015, we have no record of that text that was approved a year ago by the House of Deputies. Basically, the government is demonstrating that the perfect bicameralism for you is already outdated and I sincerely feel that I must show my solidarity with the MPs of the PD of the Chamber of Deputies, who perhaps thought that they would transfer a text to us that could - yes - be modified, but that on the whole could allow us to judge almost positively with regard to the direction and orientation of the norms contained. Indeed, precisely for this reason we had proposed amendments at the time - almost a lifetime ago - aimed at further improving the rules indicated, trying to fill the gaps and limits set out in this matter. How? With the following measures: Firstly, by intervening on the competitiveness decree, which provided for the possibility, for the years after 2015, of further increases compared to those already set at 5% by the same in the matter of self-consumption electricity. Secondly, by channeling the resources available into investments aimed at achieving more advanced levels of energy efficiency, by also offering businesses a useful tool to plan their investments in a framework of legal certainty, with the introduction of the right of question in environmental matters in the statutes of companies, so as to allow entrepreneurs to request a correct interpretation of an environmental standard. Thirdly, through the introduction of a specific intervention on the rules that qualify CONAI and the collection consortia as public service officers, avoiding a substantial substitution of CONAI to the functions proper to the Municipality. Finally, with a deduction of the gross tax on the replacement of covers and casings of buildings containing asbestos by electricity generation plants from renewable sources. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity of the environmental link to the law of stability could represent a fundamental step forward in the definition of national environmental policies, in a logic that, for the first time, could combine the environment with the innovative and significant choices of industrial economic policy, directing them towards growth and sustainable development. Precisely for this reason, the bill was the ideal framework to address also the delicate issue of the promotion of asbestos reclamation. It is worth mentioning, in this regard, a study by the ENEL Foundation and Politecnico di Milano, which in Italy has estimated that energy efficiency interventions could save us 25 million tons of oil, namely 72 million tons of carbon dioxide not emitted into the air, with a turnover of 64 billion euros and 460,000 jobs. The economic well-being of a country goes hand in hand with improving the quality of life and protecting the environment. These two objectives must be the principle and spirit in which we should address any bill that speaks of the environment, i.e. promoting the culture of environmental protection and enhancement. Today we are discussing, instead, an ex-novo text and I feel I am saying, on behalf of the Conservatives and Reformists, that we appreciate very much the commitment we have made in trying to find the involvement of oppositions, but, you see, Mr President, we are not accustomed to these openings; seeing it today is almost a great emotion, even if we do not understand well whether these openings are an act of political intelligence or simply a legacy, a legacy of majority, because perhaps the subject did not interest you then so much as to open up the trademark of the majority, as, instead, it happened for constitutional reform. The government supports this environmental revolution. Yet, unlike the Minister's wishes, the policies implemented appear frankly overwhelming and inconstant. We must therefore ask ourselves: what is the space and role in Italy for the green economy? There is and is a lot of space, also because the principle that the so-called green economy is the most effective tool to help Italy get out of the crisis through energy efficiency, sustainable management of water resources, sustainable mobility, bioenergy, efficient use of materials, waste management and recycling is now established. This is the role of the circular economy, a sector potentially growing both as a volume of business and as a job. Minister Del Rio is right about this when he states that the green economy must and can bring to the South its privileged horizon to create well-being and work. Today, however, the government presents itself with this new text that more than green economy is a sort of omnibus green containing so many words and confused. It is a continuous reference to the Government and its future acts; but above all it is evident the absence of a strong governance that addresses and encourages especially agricultural entrepreneurs to invest. The Group of Conservatives and Reformists wanted to help revive the country's economy. In other words, we would have wanted to contribute to relaunching employment in the South by allowing individuals to invest and give back to young people with the title of study acquired with so many sacrifices in the South a hope, a horizon of life and employment, making them rediscover their own land and their own roots. Undersecretary, we sincerely appreciate your efforts, but let me remind you, quoting Winston Churchill, that many people see a private enterprise as a ferocious tiger, to be killed immediately. Others, however, like a cow to milk. Very few see it as it actually is: a sturdy horse that (...) pulls a heavy cart. For us the green economy is first of all research, that is knowledge and it is better to define it as a widespread culture and cultivation of beauty. Therefore, we will avoid being complicit in an insufficient measure, which helps to bureaucratize this sector even more by hanging that wagon that the Italians continue to pull. For these reasons the Group of Conservatives and Reformists will vote against this measure. [[Applause from the CoR Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u41	DE PIN (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the green economy, as the Government intends, is actually a hymn to offshore pollution because it confirms all the measures already provided for in the decree unlocking drills, better known as the release of Italy. In fact, the prospecting permits are given to oil companies, hundreds of authorizations for the use of air gun technology at only 300 euros per square meter. Simply put, splitting 100 square meters of seabed and damaging it irreparably costs only 30,000 euros by applying the environmental discount offered by the Government. While we are practicing torn prices for a country already on sale, Norway - let us take this country for example - which is not in the European Union, but which thanks to oil is the richest country in Europe with its thousand billion euros of sovereign fund obtained, has been able to make better use of its resources. For the first two years Norway provides for fees of as much as 3,800 euros per square metre, instead of our 300 euros, a starting price 13 times higher than ours. Also in Norway, if oil companies want to continue research beyond two years, they have to pay at least €15,000 per square metre. This measure certainly discourages speculation and devastation, as well as enriching the country. We, on the other hand, scandalously secure 50-year concessions at very competitive prices. The influence of the oil lobby on the government's wretched choices is quite clear. It is the era of environmental balances, of torn prices; it is something that sounds like green economy, but that is far from it: it is the green economy, that is, the economy of greed. It is a real environmental jackal, offered on a silver platter, indeed gold, to the oil companies by the Renzi government. We have delivered our future and our resources, depriving us of the only economic certainty for many regions: tourism. The government strangles the poor regions because it gives the loosening of the noose of the Stability Pact only to those regions that allow oil research, and not in a minimal way, but in that established by the Ministry of Economic Development. It is simply a shameful mechanism, as well as a morally unacceptable one. If we want to talk about industrial dumping, the criterion devised by the Government is contrary to any logic of law. All the European directives are turned upside down and all the expectations of pollution reduction are mocked. Small plants, in fact, according to the legislation to be approved, have a clearly defined limit on pollution. The big ones, however, thanks to the paradoxical mechanism that we vote on, can pollute in proportion to the level of production: in other words, the more they produce, the more they can pollute, by way of derogation from the limits laid down by law and common sense. But with what face will the Renzi Government have the courage to present itself in Paris in December at the Conference on the Environment? What are you gonna tell the audience this time about these craps? In the field of reclamation, then, the criteria have become so elastic that they even allow the self-certification of reclamation; something so huge that it can find no place either in heaven or on earth. Thanks to the legislation that will be voted by this House, every area can be considered reclaimed on the basis of a simple self-certification that, after the maturation of silence-consensus, will make virtual reclamation even virtuous. No control, no verification. The fight against air gun, which this very House, in a regurgitation of repentance, considered essential and certainly subject to legislative rethinking, today dies without leaving any trace, with all the consequences of the case. We have also abandoned without remedying the issue of the restoration of the 12-mile limit for oil research, deliberately ignoring that Veneto, Puglia, Calabria, Abruzzo, Marche, Lombardy, Campania, have challenged Article 38 of the measure unblocks Italy for this reason, lamenting the marginalization of the regional role in strategic environmental decisions. Thanks to the combination of the rules, all today polluted land can be reused without any effective reclamation. The chapter on discharges, if possible, is even more disturbing. With the legislation provided, all discharge procedures in the waterways and in the sea are by permanent derogation: the poisoning of all water deposits in open violation of Community legislation to protect them is allowed. The list of pollutants is long: aluminium, arsenic, chromium, iron, lead, cadmium, nickel, mercury and solvents of all kinds are substantially out of control, as well as the waste traceability system, better known as SISTRI. There is no interconnection, there is no coordination, and today it is sufficient for disposal companies to declare to the computer system, through a common USB stick, the quality and quantity of waste disposed without any extended strategic control. If that is not enough, local authorities and regions will be excluded from all forms of strategic and environmental control. The new authorisations - and I am talking about the EIA (environmental impact assessment) and the SEA (strategic environmental assessment) - use a mechanism of deadly exclusion of local authorities from the formation of decision-making. In fact, or within 30 days, local authorities are able to examine the strategic proposals of the Council of Ministers and to express their views on environmental impact assessment, strategic environmental assessment, time schedule, or the Council of Ministers will decide for them. Imagine then what will happen when the Presidents of the Regions sit on the Council of Ministers, endowed with enormous powers that will allow them to vary urbanistic destinations of entire territories without proper planning. The day after they have actively participated in the decisions of the Executive, they will enter this House as senators, therefore representatives of the legislative power, determining in fact a thunderous constitutional fracture, because they will interpret two institutionally incompatible roles and certainly in conflict of interests (I understand political interests, at least hopefully). All this is always approved in the urgency of the emergency, so that the citizen loses the last democratic rights, without having the time to realize it. Ladies and gentlemen, the catalog of nefariousness would be long, but for the sake of brevity I will only mention the further looting authorized by the current Government, this time in the field of oil research on the mainland (onshore, if you prefer). Through the legislation that we are preparing to promote, all oil research projects, which will result in enormous consumption of soil, are defined strategic, removed from all control and therefore untouchable and protected by military interventions, even against simple democratic demonstrations of protest. Let's not talk about a little: the values that emerge from the standards that have been partially approved are 80,000 square kilometers. These are authorizations that can reach the oil companies 70 percent of the territory of Basilicata, 87 percent of the territory of Abruzzo and 70 percent of the territory of Emilia-Romagna, for the researches of the case. The government deliberately ignores the damage caused by oil wells in Basilicata, located in the middle of the fields. We cannot forget the enormous damage to the aquifers and the environment, irreversibly marked by sulphur dioxide. Hydrocarbons have already been found several times, even in honey produced in Basilicata, and many water wells are acidified well beyond the limits allowed. Yet it would have been easy to consider that, despite the bad exercise of politics in the field of photovoltaic strategies, Italy today develops from the sun an energy quantity equal to that produced by two nuclear power plants. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator De Pin. DE PIN (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI)). I would ask you for two more minutes, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have a minute. DE PIN (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI)). On the contrary, the way has been chosen to consider and make the citizens believe that those alternatives were marginal energies, not worthy of consideration and development. But now at least we know to whom the country has been sold by the Renzi Government, because the names of the buyers are written in clear letters in the long list of oil companies that have already requested hundreds of authorizations from the competent Ministry - it is done to say - that it is hastening to grant them without there being any form of serious strategic control and coordination, today weakly entrusted to structures that at best do not dialogue with each other and that all too often exercise merely formal controls. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator De Pin. DE PIN (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI)). I would just like to add that my vote is of course against, in the sensitivity of our Group, and I would ask you to be able to hand over the remainder of my speech, which I have not finished by putting forward so that it is annexed to the Reports of the sitting. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u42	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u45	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Undersecretary, this measure is about to reach the two years of gestation, during which it has been very remodelled and integrated, until it becomes for the rapporteur a comprehensive and articulated work, but for those who speak to it also and above all a uneven, dispersed, inefficient and even harmful text in some points. It certainly has lights, such as the provisions to encourage sustainable mobility, but it is a pity that the projects that can be financed, including - with personal satisfaction - the footbus, only concern municipalities or territorial areas with populations over 100,000 inhabitants, thus excluding basins with less inhabitants, such as mountain areas, known to be sparsely populated, from the experimental programme. There are also positive provisions to support asbestos reclamation, despite the critical issues we have raised and which unfortunately remain. Fortunately, some of the problems introduced at first reading have been removed, such as the prospect of setting up a single technical committee for the EIA, VAS and AIA procedures, which has fortunately been cancelled. Unification would lead to confusion and a slowdown in authorisation procedures, to the detriment of the country's infrastructure. Moreover, the forecast of the vacuum system to lose with bail for packaging of water and beer, which would have burdened - and much - on public establishments, restaurants and bars, and which in a period of economic crisis would certainly have affected consumer prices, and therefore also on the market. The amendment introduced, also thanks to amendments of the League, at least is limited to introducing the system experimentally, only on a voluntary basis of the individual operator. Unfortunately, however, the measure has not been properly used to introduce expected provisions. It should be emphasized that in the year of Expo, with the theme "Feeding the Planet," "Energy for Life," except for the bland agenda, nothing concrete has been done to counter food waste. Even on the problem of wild boars, due to animal pressure, there has been a compromise rule that will not be effective. Yet, the economic and social damage created throughout the country by these animals are known: wild boars are dangerous for man, they carry out direct attacks, they are responsible for road accidents, they bring damage to agriculture, territory and birdlife. It is not enough to ban the introduction and breeding of the species in the territories; it was necessary to introduce - as we have asked - at least experimentally for two or three years the killing with the hunting by way of derogation. It can only be that parks, nature reserves and other areas that are not hunted become, in fact, natural reserves for wild boars themselves. It will always prove useless and ineffective to hunt them in the planned hunting territories, when it is known that the same wild boars have shelter inside the protected area and nighttime move outside again creating damage. But those who are most decisive in motivating the overall negative judgment of the League are the negative aspects. The forecast that only untreated wood should be included in the incentive mechanisms for the by-products used in the production of biomass and biogas is absolutely detrimental. This choice, which removes the incentives for waste wood treated will further damage the Italian furniture industry already affected by the economic crisis and the effects of the mutual sanctions existing with the Russian Federation. Absolutely negative then to have removed to the Regions the competences for the hydraulic arrangement of the rivers. Moreover, it is intolerable to finance - through a new tariff component - the guarantee fund set up to finance the construction and upgrading of water and sewage networks and purification plants. This will result in another increase in water bills, and thus other taxes. It is not clear how the resources will be distributed between North and South, but, given that the lack, inadequacy and inefficiency of networks and plants are historically chronic in the South, certified by different European infringement procedures, but also by the pitiful current, with the shameful situation of Messina, where for almost ten days the inhabitants are left without water - but also the one that is exploding with the purifiers of Naples and Caserta - I fear that to families and companies of the North will have to pay without a return of investments on their territory. This is a mockery, if we think that many of these users - certainly the Venetians and the Lombards - for some years have already suffered substantial increases in tariffs (even of 200 percent) aimed at financing investment plans deliberated by the optimal territorial areas of their territories. In the same way, we do not agree that they must fall on the virtuous users through a further increase in the water bill, the provisions to guarantee the supply of water for the dying users. The virtuous users who pay their bills regularly will also have to pay for those who will not pay them: it is a shameful thing. Finally, it is a serious desire to equate the location of campers and caravans of tourists in the open air facilities with buildings. Look, demand the building permit and environmental authorization, with a lot of marked paper, to position these removable settings, it means not only penalising hundreds of thousands of loyal campers, ready to move en masse on vacation abroad in front of these obligations, but above all inflict a fatal blow to the 2,600 Italian campsites. In this regard, we would like to point out that this sector, penalised by the legislation in question, has 8 million guests, employs 43,000 people and generates a turnover of 3 billion euros. So, Mr President, I would like to start by saying that we really are not here: after almost two years of gestation of the measure we had to achieve more, or perhaps because of this very long time, the text, fraying itself, has lost its identity and objectives. I would like to stress once again that it is dispersive and uneven and subtracts many competences from the regions, centralizing them at the head of the State, thus undermining the principle of subsidiarity. After two years, allowed - and not allowed - that the Chamber of Deputies approve it without modifications, the measure is largely not immediately operational, since for its implementation it refers to more than 50 implementing decrees, which will see the light in several months, if not in years, increasing again and further the bureaucracy of the country. The measure, then, brings into play a few new economic resources: in some parts it is only about tour matches, within the framework of funds within the competence of the same Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. So, many fine intentions will remain unnecessarily on paper. Even the chapter on land protection provisions, with seven dedicated articles, is not adequately accompanied by resources. The prevention of hydrogeological failure will once again remain ineffective and left alone on paper: the confirmation emerges plastically also from the non-existent contents of the next law of stability. In short, the environmental link to promote green economy measures will disappoint the expectations of Italians and, above all, those of Italian companies, who live and suffer from competition, huge taxes, bureaucracy, daily problems and who with difficulty are forced to face the ever faster dynamics of the market. Mr President, in conclusion, while acknowledging the commitment and the importance of the work carried out in the Commission on land, the environment and the environment, by all its members, by President Marinello and, in particular, by the rapporteur, Mr Vaccari, to whom I acknowledge the willingness shown to dialogue, thanking them, together with the Undersecretary Degani and, above all, the officials of the Commission, I firmly declare the vote against the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senators Bignami and Pepe.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u48	Compagnon (AL-A). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the environmental link, which has been fired by the Commission on land, the environment and environmental goods, is certainly a good text. I believe that the vast majority of Members of this House have appreciated this. This is an important measure, full of principles, which clearly show in which direction the overall environmental strategy of our country goes. Certainly everything can be improved - this is clear - so many things remain to be done and so many still to be improved. Beyond the many things that have already been said in general, I would like to stress that one of the most important innovations of the link is support for incentive mechanisms for citizens, businesses and local authorities, to promote recovery, recycling and re-use. One of the advantages of these incentive policies is not only to prevent waste of materials, but also to reduce the consumption of raw materials, with the immediate consequence of rational use of scarce material resources, less energy use, and the progressive reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. The promotion of the purchase of products made from materials derived from differentiated collections also opens up new market scenarios, in which small and medium-sized enterprises can recover recyclable materials, in order to sell them, as raw material or semi-finished products, to companies producing goods. It is a market, which can therefore also be translated into new employment and technological innovation in the field of green economy, which is not only made up of activities in the field of energy, but also and above all activities in the field of the rational use of materials and materials. It also introduces the financing of the demolition of illegal buildings in areas with high hydrogeological risk through a mechanism that facilitates the removal and demolition of works and buildings carried out illegally in areas of the country classified as high hydrogeological risk. This is a necessary measure for those areas where the conditions of fragility of the territory make particularly urgent the need to carry out interventions to ensure safety from phenomena of hydrogeological failure, whose concrete implementation is often prevented by artifacts of various kinds often carried out illegally. We recognize and finally give the right weight to environmental accounting with the birth of the Committee for Natural Capital, of which the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Cultural Activities is very well called to participate. In this way, environmental issues come fully into the country's economic and financial decision-making process. Through this Committee we will finally be able to achieve the integration of environmental costs into the process of preparing the Economic and Financial Document and the other acts of government on financial and budgetary programming, thus identifying a very important thing for future generations, namely the economic and social consequences resulting from the failure to prevent the impacts and environmental damage of productive activities. We are aware that natural capital, with the availability of its resources, the flow of its services and the capacity to absorb emissions and waste, is the basis of the economic processes of our well-being and development and must become central to the new economic approaches. This natural capital must therefore be recognized as its value, which must be accounted for by formally entering into the concrete political processes of the economic planning of our country. A country that has natural resources and biodiversity threatened by the pressing human intervention, as we have pointed out by approving the measure on agricultural and food biodiversity, undermines the foundations of its own development for the future and it is no coincidence that the European Biodiversity Strategy towards 2020 clearly underlines the importance of preserving and giving value to natural capital. At the time of the amendment, we are pleased that we have been able to make an effective contribution to ensuring that certain concrete principles and measures for environmental sustainability are present in the environmental connection with the Stability Act. I would therefore like to thank not only President Marinello, but all my colleagues in the Environment Commission and the rapporteur, because, all in all, we have achieved a good result that encourages us. We can certainly build a sustainable economy that is focused on objectives that can be truly achieved in the coming years and that must integrate with each other: climate and energy in view of the Paris Climate Conference (COP21), with the maximum promotion for energy from renewable sources, energy saving and reduction of emissions; resource efficiency and management (i.e. the application of the pillars of the circular economy, an economy that does not provide for waste, waste and pollution, but promotes circular processes of recycling, reuse and reuse); innovative fiscal and financial policies that eliminate the pernicious incentives for negative processes for the environment (such as subsidies to fossil fuels) and incorporate taxes on the use of resources and damage to the environment; a strategy, from here to 2050, that constitutes a challenge for Europe to allow us to live in harmony with the biophysical limits of the planet, thanks to eco-innovation, so-called green jobs and new indicators of well-being in addition to GDP, namely, those related to the circular economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this measure, which I hope, makes me quite optimistic and hopeful. I am optimistic because I have seen that working together in the institutional fora with the merit committees, we can truly honour our role as legislators, attentive to the world around us and consistent with our mission as guardians of the environment which - I would like to remind you - has only been given to us on loan and not on property. I am hopeful because, through dialogue and constructive confrontation ready to abandon ideological prejudices, we can bring home satisfactory results for our country. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of both myself and my colleagues in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party. [[Applause from the AL-A Group and Senator Puppato.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u51	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the draft law we are about to adopt: Environmental provisions to promote green economy measures and to limit the excessive use of natural resources have been characterised by a long and tortuous parliamentary process, as it was transmitted to the Senate about a year ago. The long senatorial reflection in 13th Commission was not, however, entirely negative; indeed, there was the time and the way to deal with many changes and improvements to the text fired by the Chamber of Deputies with the contribution of all the parliamentary groups; with the great work, patient and Carthage, of the rapporteur, Senator Stefano Vaccari, whom I thank; of the Government, always present and available with the Undersecretary Barbara Degani, and of course all the staff and members of the 13th Commission. And finally, I thank the President, Senator Marinello. Looking at the measure from the point of view of the mountain territories, we can highlight some significant innovations: there is confirmation, for the mountain municipalities under 1.000 inhabitants, of the autonomous management of the integrated water service provided that there is, of course, an efficient use of the water body and some particular conditions are recorded. With the introduction of the national green community strategy, a particular value is recognised for rural and mountain areas which intend to exploit in a balanced way the main resources available to them, including water, landscape and woods, starting from a new subsidiary and exchange relationship with metropolitan and urban communities, so that a sustainable development plan can be set up during the green economy phase and on which the Presidency of the Council of Ministers is explicitly committed. In addition, the creation of a specific fund for the design of mitigation actions from hydrogeological risk and the introduction of oil free zones, in which experiments are undertaken concerning the creation of prototypes and the industrial application of new hypotheses for the use of common goods, with particular regard to those coming from mountain areas, and with the important and ambitious objective of a progressive emancipation of a given territory from the use of fossil sources. It is also envisaged to introduce (with delegation to the Government) a system for the payment of environmental ecosystem services (PSEA) which, for the first time, can recognise the environmental function of mountain and rural territories, as it provides that the same PSEA system is defined as a remuneration of a share of added value resulting from the transformation of ecosystem and environmental services into market products, identifying in the local authorities of the territory the direct beneficiaries of this payment. Another important point is the decision that the supercanon of mountain water basin (BIM) must be paid to each plant with an average nominal power of more than 220 kilowatts, representing an increase of the economic return for many municipalities of mountain that struggle to maintain a correct order of their territory and that, in this way, can plan in a more effective way adequate interventions against the hydrogeological failure - and not only - widening with an amendment the possibility of using these resources by the municipal administrations. More generally, it is worth noting that this measure represents the first law dedicated to the green economy and introduces a series of different innovative measures such as green public procurement, the start of the circular economy with strong incentives to policies of recovery and recycling of materials. Simplifications are foreseen in environmental assessment activities, as well as interventions in the field of greenhouse gas and biomass containment policies, in the field of waste, in the field of soil protection and universal access to water. I would like to point out, in particular for the Autonomous Group, the safeguarding of competences in this area of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. Our Group, like all the others, has helped in the Commission with amendments to improve the text, although some proposals have not been accepted. It is, therefore, a vast and imposing measure that, if it is correctly translated with effective and operational administrative measures (which often does not happen in our country, in the face of good laws), can even be one of the most important laws of this legislature, representing the environment one of the essential themes in order to deliver to future generations a world cleaner, more livable and more respectful of all the elements of nature: in short, a better world. For these reasons, I announce the Group's vote in favour for Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u54	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, the environmental-related bill finally comes today to the vote of the Senate Assembly, more than a year after its presentation in Parliament by the Letta Government (so we are even talking about the previous government). The article has been significantly modified in relation to the text of the Chamber, even in the passage into the Senate Environment Commission, and it undoubtedly presents some innovative elements in a general context, although - we cannot fail to stress this - it remains uneven and, above all, not able to identify a clear direction in the environmental policies of the current Government. We have certainly welcomed some positive elements, which I would like to mention: the introduction of some provisions to encourage sustainable mobility, with particular reference to a national experimental programme to encourage alternative forms of mobility (car pooling, car sharing, bike pooling, bike sharing); the introduction of the figure of mobility manager, to organize home-school-home travel; the provision of interventions aimed at promoting green public procurement, with facilities for companies adopting environmental certifications; guidelines for the application of environmental criteria in the purchase of certain products and services by the public administration; the regulation of programme agreements aimed at encouraging the purchase of products derived from post-consumer materials or the recovery of waste and materials resulting from the disassembly of complex products, introducing forms of incentive to purchase. Also thanks to our amendment, which was accepted in the Commission, so-called community composting has been introduced, simplifying procedures for users who wish to recycle organic waste in common. The rules on the water supply authorities and the Guarantee Fund for water works are also of importance, with a view to strengthening the construction of infrastructure in this sector, with particular reference to sewage networks and sewage treatment plants. I also recall the delegation to the Government for the introduction of forms of remuneration of ecosystem and environmental services. The measure under consideration also makes it possible to establish the so-called oil free zones, territorial areas in which, on the basis of an address of the municipalities, the progressive replacement of oil and its derivatives is envisaged. But it is absolutely paradoxical that our amendment was rejected, which called for the exclusion of oil research and oil extraction in these areas. Finally, a long-standing request from animal protection associations was accepted, with the intention of making animals of affection or pets impregnable. However, we are absolutely critical, and we do not believe that it meets the expectations that the measure was encouraging, nor the objective need to improve environmental discipline, with regard to the provisions of Article 2 concerning offshore oil and gas operations, where the text - we regret to say - has also been made worse than the Commission's work. Having wanted to delete, with an amendment by the rapporteur, in Article 2, paragraph 2, which provided for the penalties from six months to three years for anyone who began the introspections in lack of regular authorisations, it seemed to us an absolutely negative sign. And I say that because we find that the issue of oil extraction is also one of the most negative and problematic points. It was possible to do a job which, precisely in this draft law, incorporated the famous amendment deleted in the provision on environmental crimes, on the use of air gun technology. The Cotrary did not want to take this into account and the text was even worse. The provisions, which we discussed yesterday, introduced in Article 6 on the control of wildlife, are also totally unsatisfactory and negative. Here too, a rapporteur's amendment, as revised in text 2, has made the Commission's text worse. To have chosen to deal weakly with the central issue in this area, namely the uncontrolled breeding and repopulation of wild boar and the introduction for hunting purposes, as well as the possibility of derogation from the absolute ban for wildlife-venatory companies and for those agritourisms, was - in our opinion - wrong. Just as wrong is the choice on transfers, which will cause further problems for our country as regards infringement procedures. We are not convinced, then, by the new provisions on reclamations and the environmental restoration of sites of national interest, where there can be a sponge strike on environmental crimes of great importance. The rules on incineration and mixing of waste, on the treatment of by-products from extractive activities, and on the discharge of waste water, are also of a negative nature. In addition, the opinion was also opposed to some fundamental amendments - as far as we are concerned - aimed at introducing innovative provisions aimed at the protection of areas included in the European Natura 2000 network and the preservation and enhancement of valuable rural landscapes. We have also learned from the text of the Stability Act that the most important environmental issues are not effectively addressed, starting with the serious problems posed by climate change in our country, with the evidence of a hydrogeological risk that has now become permanent. On this subject we consider it particularly serious that the law on land use is still bogged down in the parliamentary committees of the House, while the Government has, on several occasions, considered to proceed with the urgent decree on matters of lesser importance. Finally, I would like to recall other elements of negative sign in the government's environmental policies, such as the abolition of the State Forestry Corps. I do not wish to hang on to this fact, but, undoubtedly, this abolition will weaken all action on environmental protection and the prevention and repression of environmental crimes. Behind the obvious weakening of the institutional control capacity of the eco-reactors there is not only an inefficient and short-sighted application of the so-called spending review, but it is clear the thrust of the strong powers that, in recent years, have endured with increasing insufferance the control action and also the backwardness of those economic sectors that, under the drive of the crisis, aim to recover competitiveness by dumping on the environment and on the community burdens that compete with it. And we have also heard the echo of this insuffering in many speeches in this House. I have already mentioned the negative provisions introduced in the recent past. I refer again to the decree-law unlocks Italy. And, addressing the rapporteur, I say - alas - that the measure and its positive elements risk having as background the unblock Italy, or the implementing legislative decree transmitted to the Regions, which provides for the construction of new waste incineration plants, which would add to the 42 already in operation. Here, too, we are taking a step backwards in government policies and, unfortunately, in contradiction with the measure we are about to vote on. In the government's energy policy there are signs of showy backwardness. The unique concessionary title and the attempt to centralize the decisions on the granting of authorisations are a clear expression of the will to start drilling at sea and in some of the most important environmental areas of the country, with expected effects on the country's energy balance and the introduction of a serious environmental risk that could compromise the economy of tourism and quality agriculture. There are many others, therefore, the commitments that are needed to reverse this situation and the general policy of the Government. And we are waiting to understand what will be the orientation that Italy intends to take at the next Conference of the Parties (COP21) on climate change in Paris, from which can arise, in one sense or another, decisive options for the future of a country that already pays heavy tribute to hydrogeological failure and desertification. This is a decisive event in which we really hope that we can have precise answers. For the aspects - alas - certainly positive and negative that I have emphasized, we can only cast an abstention vote. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u55	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the State High School Niccolò Jommelli in Aversa, in the province of Caserta, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u58	GENTILE (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, we are voting strongly in favour of the draft law to promote measures on the green economy and to limit the excessive use of natural resources, linked to economic maneuvering. And we thank first of all President Marinello, who followed with attention and richness of details a measure to whose examination were dedicated even 38 sessions of the Commission; a full-bodied measure, consisting of 78 articles, increased with respect to the text coming from the Chamber, composed of 60 articles, which the Senate has enriched - in my opinion - abundantly and with the attention it deserved. For these reasons we believe that the bill preserves and safeguards the levels of livability of the environment, putting at the centre man and his future, his needs of today and tomorrow. This is a bill in which procedures related to environmental and health impact have been improved and strengthened, and carefully reviewed waste management and soil protection. In truth, with regard to the latter topic, there is still a lot to do, especially in the Mezzogiorno of Italy, and the latest events in Calabria and Sicily are testifying that on the defence of the soil we need to work a lot, but above all to plan. We see, in fact, that in those areas, even for the historical delays accumulated especially in the defense of the territories, it is enough a strong alluvial rain to create problems to the populations, and above all to make to yield portions of territory. And I remember that these events are not only related to building speculation, but are also due to the historical lack of infrastructure for soil protection. Especially in those areas we see, with a heart full of pain, that sometimes many people die from causes due to natural events, such as - for example - it happened in Calabria where two young people lost their lives to defend themselves from bad weather. This will no longer have to happen in a civil and democratic country like ours and we must do everything to ensure that the money allocated by the State is well spent in the defence of the ground. In Calabria - for example - delays in the use of resources are very strong and the time that is lost is what nature gains against man. Sometimes, nature takes the revenge, as it is natural that it happens, especially in the most degraded areas of the country. We insisted that the government be more careful in planning its activities. In many regions of the South the money has been allocated. I remember that No. 106 Ionica is called the path of death. Many colleagues with me - Senators Viceconte, Di Giacomo, Billardi and Aiello - have presented various parliamentary questions on this subject. The money from the government has been allocated, but we do not understand why, with the funding already allocated and the competitions already won by the companies, you can not start work on those roads, and not only to give, at the occupational level, oxygen and perspective, but also and above all to intervene on the structures. It is not possible that, precisely on the Ionian, where the last alluvial events have happened, the government's spending capacity stops in front of the cookers - so I define them - of the low plans of the Ministry of Public Works, which prepare the precookeds to be imposed, then, on the citizens. This must end in our country. Minister Delrio, who has been so good at coming to the South, must also tackle this issue with the cards in order and put the funding in place, which have been on the table for years and which cannot start because of bureaucratic impediments. On this ground, then, the defense of the ground also becomes a bet on the part of Parliament and the Government. We use resources, let's spend them on territories, and we'll probably have fewer victims and more livability. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of this measure by the New Centre, but let us ensure that all available resources are used. Moreover, a task force using Community funds and European funding in all areas of the Regional Operational Plans is sufficient and, above all, there is a link with the Southern Regions and the Presidents of the juntas, in order to ensure that the incentives are not lost and dispersed. It is necessary to work and communicate the state and regions in order to form a single asset, so that all the sums made available by the European Community and the State are not dissipated but are well spent. For these reasons we believe that, if the State is present and the Government is strong, the development model can be truly synchronized on innovation and growth. The other way is only the dispersion of resources, but we are, instead, engaged, in our governmental group, in order to achieve all the objectives, the economic growth left in the country and create moments of synthesis and unity on development projects. And, above all, an effort is needed to give wealth and well-being to the country. I must say that, this time, this is a good law because it is going to impact on the old and old problems of our country. It is a bill, however, that must be projected and developed on the territories: it is not enough academically to affirm some things, but to have a feedback on the territories, where we must win the big bet of a democratic, advanced and civil country such as Italy. There we must win, because we can no longer accept supinously that, often, in the environmental sector, the most turbulent and tricky things are happening. We abolished many of the negativity of the past in Campania, Sicily and Calabria. We must now take a new, particularly intense moment in the relationship between Parliament and regional institutions. For these reasons we will still say yes to this measure, and I again thank the Government and President Marinello for the work they have done. I hope this is the first stage of a long journey that Italy must take to the great European levels. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u61	MARTELLI (M5S). This time I'm going to go to the people who are at home, because I think there are ears better than the ones in here. We shall vote against this measure for two reasons. The first is of a technical nature and relating to the content of the measure itself; the second is higher, because I believe that we must fly higher than it says here. For those who are interested in home, the measure we are examining is called Act of the Senate 1676, composed of 78 articles that mix a bit of everything. Undeniably someone will tell you that it contains good things. Those of the majority have told you that he is good and have only spoken to you about the good things; those of the opposition, however, have told you that he is bad and have mentioned only the bad things. It is then necessary to consider whether a dish of risotto containing so many beautiful balls of poop is good or bad. We think he's bad. So, what are the good balls? A good ball can be - for example - that the institutions of new protected areas are favored with as much as 800,000 euros, or someone could say the investment of about 18 million, badly counted, for the removal of asbestos covers. Too bad that in Italy there are 25 billion square meters of asbestos cement roofing, whose average disposal cost is estimated at 8 euros per square meter. If we multiply 25 billion square meters by 8, we get 200 billion. Instead of 200 billion, you put 18 million. You could tell me that 200 billion is not available, but you could think of a plan for the future. Some might say that not all asbestos is in bad condition and, therefore, does not endanger people's health; but it will put it, because the asbestos concrete artifact has a life of about thirty years, and then it begins to crumble. It is useless to wait for anything to happen every time and then act in an emergency. We should act first. So if we divide the amount you put on the plate by the number of square meters, something like 7 cents of cents of euros per square meter comes out when it would take 8 euros. That means you've put less than 10,000 times what you need on the plate. Another example is that you pretend to introduce a principle of circular economy with the void to render, but it has become on a voluntary and non-binding basis and moreover, it is experimental, lasts a year. Might as well not. Then why did you do it? So you can go to the press conference and say you've taken green economy measures forward. But when the fat comes, which is the billions, then the painful notes arrive. There is - for example - the discount to oil tankers, who will be able to spread their polluting residues with the state's good pleasure, because they will be reclassified as chelating agents for pollutants. I'm talking about calcium sulphate. Or oil tankers can start untitled mining without even risking jail time. Suppose I want to drill, that I've been told yes and that someone is using the TAR. I, in the doubt, begin the same because, if the recourse to the TAR goes wrong, I will pay a fine; if the recourse to the TAR will go well, I will be taken forward and I will have earned one or two years, depending on whether the litigation goes to the Council of State or the Constitutional Court. And that's another nice discount. Then you made the discount to the big polluters of sites of national interest because, even when you have taken them with your hands in jam, they will be able to produce a transaction that will become a safety emergency (the famous primary restoration works). After that, they'll be fine with a cash transaction if the operation costs too much or it's too complicated. Taranto's ILVA is there again. That's random. These are the technical reasons that make us say no. Then there's the biomass discounts. You have cut the incentives to photovoltaics, saying that renewables cost too much, but then you give them to those of biomass, to the residues of sugar factories - a gift for them - and then to all those who transform oil raw materials, regardless of whether they can come from the destruction of an ecosystem like the rainforest of Indonesia. After all, who cares? The important thing is that the car goes on. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Gandhi said there's enough on the planet to satisfy everyone's needs, but not enough to satisfy someone's greed. We are looking at this measure on the second side. Someone's greed is really unsatisfying. But now we're flying a little higher. This is a miserable attempt to make people believe that something is done, without really doing anything: it is the famous policy of the small step that takes you directly to hell. You see, time is already up and these buffer measures are of no use at all. You can't think of letting the fossils go on and spending some change on renewables. You might as well use the coal and fossils budget to the end and go crash into the wall, because that's what's gonna happen. It's not about himself, it's about when. Let's go straight against the wall and get it over with, but at least let's not pretend. The truth is this: you are trying to pretend in order to compensate for two non-refundable interests. Either you are interested in the survival of species or you are interested in the greed of someone who wants to earn money at all costs. So either you choose to stop using fossil sources or you decide to go to renewable sources. You can't do both, because that doesn't make any sense. You'd expect someone in the government to fly high. But here you don't fly high or even low: you fly under the ground from every point of view. I have heard of the famous Paris Conference, COP21, at which ridiculous binding commitments should be made. This, too, is another of those things that should have entered into the provision. You have to have the courage, sometimes, to be ahead of the trend and not just to pull, because the economy cannot be disturbed, so much so that you, smart human beings, spend every year $6,000 billion to stimulate fossil sources. And then, however, come and tell us, firstly, that there is no money to do anything else and secondly, that we must not disturb the economy. With 6,000 billion you are not disturbing her, but you are drugging her, in the sense that you continue to maintain an economic system done in a certain way. In the end, the people in charge here are the lobbyists, the big potentates, and not the citizen. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The citizen, first, would say that these measures make no sense, do not help the community. And neither are you helping her. So we're gonna hit the wall? Let's do it. We're also talking about separate collection. You talk all the time about separate collection and circular economy. You must overcome this archaic mechanism, this old thought still tied to how much garbage we separate: the point is that the garbage must be produced as little as possible. You guys don't say anything, and I'm gonna put the money on this. You say that we must encourage the circular economy, but you do not even know what it is: the circular economy by definition does not exist, because there is a progressive dispersion of resources in the world. These are the truly fundamental challenges. Instead, there is no such concept in your government action. Continue to pursue the idea of waste, waste, waste and waste of resources. And when resources are wasted, they become irrecoverable. You tell us that we have to put an ecotax on the things that need to be transferred to landfills or incinerators. Are we still at this point? You cannot understand that all this is always dumped on the community: the administrator, who cares, makes the citizen pay and never pays him. You're talking about changing the light bulbs inside the public administration by putting the energy-saving light bulbs on, and then you're keeping the coal-fired power plants on. But how many millions of billion energy-saving light bulbs do it take to compensate for a single march of a coal-fired power plant? But no, you have to insist: you have to give money to those who energy with coal; you have to give money to those who energy with oil; you always have to give money to those people. The famous polluter principle pays where it is? You have also made disappear what has become: those who pollute pay only a little. And then who pays? The community. How much money does it take to clean up 39 sites of national interest? A huge amount, hundreds of billions, but you decided to give them a discount. The last gem is as follows: for the hydrogeological failure you have decided to put 10 million on the plate; I repeat, 10 million and not 10 billion. It is a fund to facilitate the redeployment of buildings or buildings that are in exondable areas. With 10 million, how many do you move? One, two? Two on how many? About millions? Also on this we try not to tease ourselves: let's not just do it, because they are greenwashing operations, which - I remind you - is a concept invented by such Stephan Schmidheiny, that of the Eternit process, which coined sustainable development as a lobbying expression to make fun of people. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u62	The timetable provides for a suspension from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. to allow the work of the Commissions to be carried out. There are still two explanations of vote, which will be taken at the resumption of the sitting, together with the final vote, for which the quorum is required, since this is a measure linked to the financial manoeuvre. I therefore suspend the sitting until 5 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.58 p.m. and resumed at 5 p.m.) Colleagues, let's resume our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u65	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this bill was presented to the Chamber of Deputies by the then Environment Minister Orlando on 12 February 2014. A little less than two years have passed since the beginning of the provision, which is linked to the law of stability of the Letta Government. As reported on the website of the Ministry of the Environment at the time of its launch in the Council of Ministers, in November 2013, it was to be the green agenda of that Government. This was, according to the Government, a fundamental step forward in defining national environmental policies, linked to innovative economic and industrial policy choices, for growth and sustainable development. According to Minister Orlando, it was therefore a decisive challenge for our country, which evidently the new Renzi Government has no longer considered as indispensable, for the subsequent development of environmental policy. In fact, twenty months have passed and the Senate is starting to complete its first reading. On the contrary, the need to complete a package of measures to revive environmental protection and the potential of its balanced economic development must be considered absolutely urgent. They are priority chapters on the country's agenda, but unfortunately they do not appear to be such in the government's agenda. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u66	I apologize, Senator Piccoli. I would ask my fellow Members to lower their voices, because otherwise following the debate becomes extremely tiring.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u67	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Madam President. I would remind you that just a year ago we were in this House discussing motions, to urge the Government to deal seriously with the conflict with the hydrogeological disaster. We had unanimously argued that our country is at great risk, but at the same time it has great natural resources and a unique environmental heritage, which must be valued through constant, systematic and multidisciplinary action, together with a national structural plan. However, appeals, appeals, motions and concrete proposals do not seem to have been heard at all by the Government. In addition to the already mentioned slowness of the process of examining this measure, to which Parliament was forced by the Government, we are examining a cauldron, characterized by unsolved problems. The measure deals in fact with sustainable mobility, transport by sea, marine protected areas, land books, litoid materials, urban waste, energy, wild boars and transfers, post-consumption materials, aerobic composting, photovoltaic panels, calcium sulphates, abusive properties, fertilizers and asbestos reclamations, just to mention some matter. Once again, we are faced with an instrument which is not concretely operational, which requires many implementing measures, and which must also be adopted in too short a time to be respected. The extension of the examination times, on the one hand, and the heterogeneity of the measures contained therein, on the other hand, are a direct consequence of the work of mediation carried out between the various forces and souls of the majority, with negotiations and compromises that have largely rewritten the text before us today, and finally, Madam President, to a result that is out of time maximum, characterized by excessive complexity, lack of clarity, very limited effectiveness and scarce resources available. The financial safeguard clause, also known as the 'wedding with dried figs', appears in 10 articles of the measure. In particular, in November last year, the Chamber of Deputies approved and transmitted to the Senate a text consisting of 56 articles. In these months of troubled examination in the Commission Territory, environment, environmental goods, the measure has risen, up to 84 articles, to which remove as many as six proposals for the removal of articles by the Government. In this respect, the Commission has proposed the deletion of a number of articles on packaging waste, arguing that the matter should have been the subject of an imminent ad hoc measure. Since the spring of 2015, nothing has been done yet, because we know well that the Government has been forced to back down, due to the lack of agreement between the majority forces, on a very sensitive issue. We are talking about a very important matter, since the recycling of packaging produces savings for our country, which is estimated to exceed 3 billion euros per year. Another bizarre issue concerns the new system for the payment of eco-systemic and environmental services, which the Government is delegated to introduce, pursuant to Article 70 of the draft law under consideration, which has few addresses, little in-depth, for amounts of hundreds of millions of euros per year. The delegation provides that integrated mountain basin foundations are also included among the beneficiaries of the scheme. But where do these foundations come from? By what legislation have they been created and regulated? They are certainly not present in the Single Text of Local Authorities. We would not like, apart from contradicting the concept of simplification with the creation of new bodies, these foundations represent the beginning of some unclear maneuver of the majority of Government in order to remove the benefits related to the use of water in mountainous territory to the only ones who have the right to benefit from it, that is, the citizens, through the consortia of mountain basins that - I remind myself - group more than 2,500 municipalities. It should also be stressed that, from all the beneficiaries of the new system, regions and provinces, today vast areas, are disappearing from the delegation, to the current recipient status of significant part of the payments involved. As a further incongruity we have seen almost 70 changes to the environmental code. Would it not have been more appropriate to undertake a systematic and complete updating of Legislative Decree No. 152, 3 April 2006, through an intervention dedicated to it, rather than to operate in such a sector-specific and uncoordinated manner? It is certainly not us who are in favour of a reform of the environmental code, provided that it is done with method and reflection. It was also considered appropriate to dedicate a rule to Article 4 and a dowry of 5 million euros to the Emilia-Romagna Region to finance the construction of a cycle track. Sustainable mobility is certainly a topic that needs to be developed in our cities and regions, but there is a big difference between its promotion in the country and a specific funding for the individual project of a single region. When is a transparent and equal opportunity approach for all institutions? Forza Italia, with a proactive approach (in which the rapporteur, Senator Vaccari, whom I thank), has helped to improve the text in the sense of a greater simplification of the procedures for approving projects and interventions and has proposed and supported the principle that the public administrations that have to issue environmental opinions must take care to issue the act within thirty days. We have also proposed measures on procedural simplification for the approval of works involving state property and simplification in the keeping of certain registers relating to environmental activities. Unfortunately, however, the examples of simplification contained in this measure stop here. The Government and the majority lose yet another opportunity to unravel this country and facilitate the lives and work of millions of citizens and businesses in a crucial sector where it is necessary to enhance, together with the peculiarities of the territories, the same private and public initiative, in the direction of tourism, technological innovation, water resources and energy. This measure, after repeated changes in the very recent past, returns to intervene on the integrated water service, highlighting a total uncertainty of the Government regarding the discipline of the sector and, once again, are penalized users citizens, who will suffer increased withdrawals to finance the new fund of guarantee of the water works referred to in Article 58. In this case too, the simplest solution, namely an increase in the levy, was preferred rather than alternative solutions that did not again burden citizens and businesses. We hope that the application of the article will guarantee that fairness that is too often dead letter in our country. I shall conclude, Madam President. Another questionable point concerns Article 51, which deals with the issue of the district authorities. Such an important subject would have deserved a specific, detailed, reasoned and in-depth measure, as we pointed out in the explanation of vote on the article. In conclusion, in recent months the measure under consideration has become an inconclusive, omnibus and poor-functioning act, as evidenced by the more than 50 implementing measures to be adopted, which make us fear that many provisions will remain completely unimplemented. Moreover, the question of the economic and financial sustainability of the proposed provisions is not often solved. It is not difficult to predict that many of the provisions contained in this provision will have to be incorporated or substantially modified in order to allow for a certain applicability to concrete cases, not to mention the probable changes that the House will introduce on a text largely modified compared to its first reading. Once again, the Government, unlike the good intentions expressed, elaborates obnoxious and inconstant actions. We have missed yet another opportunity to relaunch a simple, coherent and structural environmental policy to support the growth of the green economy in our country. For the reasons I have outlined, we can only vote against this bill. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u68	We greet the students and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Michele Grenata" of Rionero in Vulture, in the province of Potenza. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u71	Mr Caleo (PD). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the first reflection I would like to share with all of you, before going into the substance of the measures contained in the measure, concerns the concept of awareness. I am talking about the acquisition of a greater awareness of communities about the primary good that is the environment. There is still a lot to be done, but let me say that, with the approval of this measure, the hope and awareness of the centrality of environmental policies are being fostered also for the political community. Only by restoring dignity to the environment and recognizing its value and rights will we be able to reverse the course. I proposed, perhaps late, both by means of amendments and by the presentation of a draft law, signed by many of my colleagues, amendments to Article 9 of the Constitution, which sought to include words and themes such as 'environment', 'ecosystems', 'biodiversity'. I think it is appropriate to address this issue with courage: we must find the courage, not only political, but the responsibility to introduce the protection of environmental integrity in our Constitutional Charter as an indispensable prerequisite for the well-being of humanity, so as to establish an express link between the Republic and the protection of ecosystems and the various natural habitats, both of which are functional to biodiversity. The integrity of nature is a value that guarantees human integrity. However, we can say that a further step is being taken today. Never before had so many measures been taken to promote the real development of the green economy in our country. Green procurement; sustainable mobility; recovery of matter and circular economy; prevention of hydrogeological risk; strengthening of water service; defence of the sea; management and prevention of waste production; establishment of oil free zones, just to name a few. I will mention here only some of these which I consider to be more significant and that the timely discussion and discussion that took place in the Senate Environment Commission and in this House has helped to improve compared to the first reading. And here let me thank my colleague Senator Vaccari, who with passion and competence has been able to weave a good measure. [[Applause from the PD Group]] As for the prevention of hydrogeological risk, with this bill we go to modify the discipline of the river districts through their reduction and reorganization. In the new governance we have foreseen that the ISPRA plays a supporting role and that the agricultural associations and the National Authority of Bonifications (ANBI) are involved in an advisory way, safeguarding also the employees of the existing authorities that can be transferred to the Regions. The river contracts, which become part of the environmental code, will contribute to the definition and implementation of the water district planning tools. Also in the Senate we have foreseen the obligatory preparation of the plan of management of river sediments, as well as the establishment of a dedicated fund for the planning of interventions of mitigation from hydrogeological risk. In addition, we have allocated financial resources (10 million euros for the year 2015), a revolving fund that can be refinanced, for the removal or demolition, by the Municipalities, of works and buildings made in the areas of the Country exposed to hydrogeological risk, in the absence (or in total discrepancy) of the permit to build; and amended the building law so that in every practice reference is made to the legislation of protection of the hydrogeological structure. The minimum quantity that is vital for guaranteeing the universal right to water for morose users has been reintroduced and a Guarantee Fund has been set up for operations to strengthen water infrastructure throughout the country. Another very qualifying point is certainly the introduction, in the context of the environmental impact assessment, of the conduct of a health impact assessment, in accordance with guidelines defined by the Higher Institute of Health, for projects relating to refineries, regasification terminals; and thermal power stations. On the subject of waste: involving local authorities, landfilling is penalised, separate collection is encouraged and the reduction of non-recycled waste is promoted. We have provided for a series of measures which, on the one hand, penalise disposal in incineration plants without energy recovery and counteract the sale of copper waste and other metals to protect authorised glaciers; on the other hand, they simplify the procedures for waste from the cleaning of sewage systems and also regulate the management of waste collected during fishing. I think we can call a great act of civilization the establishment of the ban on throwing cigarette butts on the street, chewing gum for other small waste, such as handkerchiefs and receipts. The allocation of EUR 15 million for the promotion of the circular economy is very important. [[Brusio]] Madam President, I have a loud voice, so I'm sure you can hear me. The sound of the House is also overshadowed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Caleo, I no longer have the energy to silence the House. Mr Caleo (PD). Other novelties of this measure are the strategy of the green communities, rural and mountain communities in which to carry out sustainable agriculture and tourism, use clean energy and develop modern farms, and the oil free areas, areas where the municipalities, even in association with each other, will be able to proceed to the progressive substitution of oil with energy from renewable sources. You see, ladies and gentlemen, in front of all these initiatives it becomes really small to talk about the activity against the killing of wild boar. We have done something extraordinary, because for the first time we have banned the placing on the whole of the country of these egg products. And one should boast of it, and not be able to see that perhaps the best, as they always say, is the enemy of good. [[Applause from Senator Ferrara Elena.]] But the most important thing is the creation of the Natural Capital Committee at the Ministry of the Environment, in order to ensure the achievement of social, economic and environmental objectives consistent with the annual budgetary and financial programming of the State. The municipalities will also be encouraged to adopt environmental budgets. Surely there will be other steps to be taken, very soon. The Cop21 Conference on Climate Change will be held in Paris in December. We need binding agreements, because the planet will not be able to resist the expected increase of more than two degrees of temperature. Italy must take a leading role in ensuring that all countries subscribe to the objectives set by the Conference and commit themselves to implementing policies to enforce them, because climate change poses unprecedented threats to the biosphere, health, living conditions and economic development on earth, constituting the motive for the exponential growth of migratory flows, thus fueling tensions and conflicts. And then, again, there will be discussions on issues such as parks and the reorganisation of environmental agencies. They are ready measures, which we are able to fire by January. All dowels that aim to strengthen in our order the respect for the environment. Colleagues, I began by talking about the greater awareness that the political community must have towards the environment. The same awareness that Antonio Cederna has led us over time to acquire, with his battles, his articles, his irony. "The Special Indignant" Cederna demonstrated his ability to frame phenomena, analyzed to solve problems at the origins, revealing a systemic conception of the territory. Cederna contested the view of nature as a landscape intended as a summation of panoramas and therefore mainly interpreted with aesthetic value. I would like to dedicate this work to the memory of Antonio Cederna, whose improvement has been supported by all the groups present in Parliament, the Government and the many associations heard. Cederna was, ante litteram, among those who helped to form an environmental consciousness in this country, without ever giving in to fundamentalist visions, bringing into the Italian cultural debate also the concepts of cultural and urbanistic heritage, considered politically residual. The law on eco-reactors and this very important measure (even if tribulated) testify that the reform season can include among the protagonists also the environment and from this point of view the work carried out by the Senate has certainly been appreciated and, as I said earlier, has not yet ended: there are years of mistakes and wounds to heal, but the path taken is the right one. The policy of awareness can succeed if good laws are followed by good practice, and with that, ladies and gentlemen, I announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour and conviction. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u72	I note that the rapporteur has tabled the proposal for coordination C1. I therefore ask the rapporteur if he will explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u73	Madam President, this is a proposal for coordination with five articles. Article 5 proposes an amendment incorporating the indications given by the General Accounting Office of the State on coverage; in Article 14 a merely formal rewriting of the provisions inserted in paragraph 1; in Article 20 there is formal coordination in order to adapt the heading to the amendments approved to the article. Article 37 proposes the deletion of a repetition of the text and Article 40 the deletion of a term already exceeded from the temporal point of view, because - as some colleagues have reminded us - the provision provides for the application from the date of entry into force of the link.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u74	Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by the rapporteur. It's approved. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] He asked the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea Galletti to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, I should like to thank all of you for the work you have done these days, these months. It has been a long and thorough work and I believe that the result, wherever you look at it, is still important. Yesterday was presented to Ecomondo yet another study on the Italian environment. From that study it emerges clearly that in recent years the green economy has made a very strong contribution to the production of jobs and GDP for our country, in contrast with other sectors. I believe that we, with today's measure, are going to strengthen even more that sector that can be the driving force for the recovery of our country. Certainly, as has been reiterated by many, even those who were most critical of this measure, we are not solving all the problems that concern the environment in our country. I believe, however, strongly in what Senator Caleo recalled in his speech: we are on a path, we started it with the approval of the bill on eco-reactions; today we approve of the Senate the related environmental bill, which I hope can be definitively approved by the House in a short time; you will have the Senate in the coming weeks the bill approved by the House on the consumption of soil; we are discussing the reform of the Agencies and we are discussing the reform of the parks. I believe that, if we are able to conclude and transform into law the draft laws that are currently under discussion in Parliament, we will conclude a very important work, which will allow us to intervene on every critical aspect that we are facing today in our country. I consider it an organic design. The agencies are closely linked to the measure under consideration today, just as they are to the eco-reactors: we rightly punish environmental crimes more severely, on the one hand, but, on the other, we must also be able to have better controls. With the bill you passed today, however, we make a strong contribution to the green economy. I would like to mention a number of important steps in this measure, ranging from the resources we put in place on sustainable mobility, promotion and adoption of EMAS, eco-labels and other measures you have mentioned here. I owe a special thanks to the rapporteur, Stefano Vaccari, who has given a great boost to the measure in recent months. [[Applause from Senator Guerra]] I owe it to the President of the Marinello Environment Commission, to all of you and, above all, to the technicians who have worked hard, but with great precision, on this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u78	VACCARI, rapporteur. Madam President, I would simply like to say a few words of thanks, given that the work has lasted a long time and that we have committed the Senate Assembly, even for many sessions. This work is the result of the collaboration of many, whom I had to thank. I would like to begin by thanking the President of the Senate, the Councillors and officials who have worked hard for the work of the House; the 1st Commission and the 5th Commission, all the members and officials who have supported us in these months; of course the Government, all the departments involved, who have helped the Ministry of the Environment, in particular, who has done important coordination work; the Minister and the Undersecretary Degani, who has followed this measure with continuity, capacity and determination; the legislative office of the Ministry of the Environment and, finally, the 13th Commission and to President Marinello, to all the Members of Parliament, to the Parliamentary Councillor Nicolò De Salvo, who supported us from the beginning to the end with great competence and capacity; of course to all the members and to the majority group leaders and, in particular, to my colleague Caleo. It has been a long and complicated work, which has certainly allowed us to carry out a fundamental measure, a new green agenda, as the Minister said, which marks an important change of step in the policies of sustainable development of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u79	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2110, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Ichino, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u80	Madam President, I would just like to sum up the report made in the Commission by asking the Presidency to give the full text to the documents. IN THE CHAIR: MR GALLAND The Presidency authorizes it to do so. , rapporteur. Law No 146 of 12 June 1990 on strike in public services includes, from the outset, environmental protection services and supervision services on cultural goods (Article 1 (2) (a)). A non restrictive interpretation of this provision would have allowed to assume, in the notion of supervisory services, also those carried out by the apparatuses responsible for managing the flows of visitors to the institutions and places where cultural goods are kept. However, despite the fact that the guarantee Commission has repeatedly indicated its direction in this respect, this was not the interpretation which prevailed in the effective application of the rule during the twenty-five years in which it was in force. Until 20 September 2015, therefore, the equipment responsible for managing the flow of visitors was kept separate from those in charge of protection and supervision, with the result of their exclusion from the scope of the regulation of the strike. This interpretative choice has, however, been called into question in terms of its consequences by some episodes of closure for trade union reasons of monuments and archaeological sites. The most resounding cases, but not the only ones, were those of the strike of the Uffizi Gallery of March this year, as well as the closure, in the middle of the summer, for strike or union assembly, of the archaeological site of Pompeii and the Colosseum in Rome, resulting in serious discomfort for a very large number of tourists. Precisely the obvious disproportion between the interests involved in trade union disputes and the general interests affected in these incidents of blocking the service has highlighted the dual nature of public service inherent in the supervisory service. It constitutes a public service, on one hand, in that it ensures the preservation and protection of the cultural good, and, on the other hand, in that it allows the use of the good itself by a vast population, consisting mainly of people who, in order to enjoy it, travel even transoceanic. Depending on the large and multiple set of interests mentioned above, Decree-Law No 146 of 20 September 2015 extends the scope of Law No 146 of 1990, extending it also to the services of public access to regulated museums, monuments and other relevant institutions and places of national historical and artistic heritage. The reasons for urgency of the measure were seen, for a verse, in the risk that episodes similar to those of Pompeii and the Flavian Amphitheatre were repeated in Milan, where the great World Expo 2015 event was underway, finished only on 31 October last, and in Rome where the opening of the extraordinary Jubilee is imminent. It should be noted immediately in this regard that the Chamber has limited the scope of the new norm with the addition of the requirement that institutions and places of culture belong to public subjects, thus excluding museums, art galleries, libraries, archives, historical buildings of artistic value and other cultural assets belonging to foundations or in any case to private subjects. This restriction, inspired by the appreciable understanding of limiting as much as possible the scope of the limitation of the right of workers to abstain from work by strike, presents a difficulty of harmonization with the installation of Law No 146 of 1990 on strike in public services, which, for a verse, generally does not distinguish between services managed by public entities and services managed by private entities. In particular, in extending its scope to the protection and supervision services of cultural goods, it does not distinguish between goods managed by public entities and goods managed by private individuals. In this regard, however, it should be noted that the 2004 Code of Cultural Heritage does not require the private person holding a museum or site of cultural interest to open it to the public, as it is not the object of a public service but of a private service of social utility. This consideration allows to overcome the censorship of unconstitutionality that could otherwise be moved to the restriction introduced by the Chamber, highlighting a profile of reasonableness of the different treatment reserved to museums and sites of cultural interest because of the quality and nature of their owner. The Chamber then inserted an article 01 containing the clarification that the protection, use and valorization of cultural heritage are activities that fall among the essential services of the benefits concerning civil and social rights that must be guaranteed throughout the national territory and that, as is well known, Article 117 of the Constitution confers on the competence of the State. Finally, Article 1-a of the decree-law, also included in the legislative text by the Chamber, contains the usual clause of invariance of the burdens charged to the public finances. In conclusion, I note that the need to convert the decree-law into law within the constitutional deadline of 19 November led the Commission to reject all the amendments, including those aimed at integrations related to the discipline of the strike and the union assembly, which could have been positively assessed on the substance, but which could be the subject of the other and more complex measure on the subject of strike in the essential public services to which the Commissions are working. The same requirement is reason for the adoption of the measure by the Senate definitively, therefore without amendments, already at this second reading. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u81	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Puglia to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u82	Madam President, this draft law is yet another abuse of the urgent decree by a government that chooses to avoid parliamentary confrontation, even in the absence of an emerging situation. It appears that the adoption of the decree-law under examination was justified by the occurrence of different events, but united by the fact that the related effects have already been exhausted. It is also worth noting that, in the present case, the Government has intervened in a matter, the right to strike, covered by a reserve of law (ex Article 40 of the Constitution). It cannot be denied that constitutional jurisprudence, despite authoritative doctrine supports the contrary, considers the reserve of law satisfied even by acts with force of law. In this case, however, the consideration of the existence of the conditions of necessity and urgency must of course be more stringent. The ratio of the institution of the reserve of law lies in the choice of constituents to reserve the discipline of certain matters to the law, to guarantee rights and freedoms, the constitutionally guaranteed autonomous, as well as the independence and impartiality of bodies and institutions. It is on the basis of these premises that the statutory reserve represents a guarantee institution placed in the Constitution as a garrison of rights and freedoms. We should not, therefore, discuss the formal force required of the act to satisfy the reservation, but the opportunity for certain matters not to be taken from the parliamentary debate for a government whim. It is necessary that the discipline of matters that represent the essential core of the rights and freedoms of citizens arises from the confrontation of opposing sensitivities. The same insertion, during the debate in the Chamber, of Article 01 is indirect confirmation of the constitutional illegitimacy of this provision. It is clear, in fact, that it was considered necessary to include this article precisely in order to give some constitutional coverage to a decree-law that, for the reasons already stated, could not legitimately intervene on the subject on which the Constitution provides a reserve of law. And in order to do this, in a truly somewhat clumsy legal way, a reference has been made to Article 9 of our Constitutional Charter, however, forcing its text, since this article does not include among the constitutionally recognized rights that to the "fruizione" of the artistic heritage, which instead constitutes the reason for being, according to the Government, of the measure under consideration. In short, we could say that we are in the presence of a curious attempt to introduce a constitutional right by urgent decree. We therefore ask that the draft law No 2110 should not be examined for the reasons set out above. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u83	He asked Senator De Petris to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u84	Madam President, this measure represents, as far as we are concerned, yet another abuse of the decree of urgency by a government which chooses to avoid, even in an emerging situation, tackling the problem with a normal procedure. But I believe that in this case it goes even further. I would like to make it very clear here that, precisely in this case, with regard to the right to strike, i.e. a constitutional value of freedom, Article 40 of the Constitution expressly states that there is a reserve of law, namely that regulation must take place by law, through a process which we believe cannot be absolutely that of the urgent decree. The same commission to guarantee the implementation of the Act on strike in the essential public services, which had tried to apply Law No 146 of 1990 also to the services of use of cultural heritage, with regard to the strike called at the Uffizi Gallery in Florence, precisely on that occasion had declared that the modification that had been introduced by that decree-law seemed so necessary and urgent, but the fact of widening the very concept of limitation of strike also to cultural services had to be the subject of a discussion and an ordinary legislative process, and certainly not a decree of urgency. It is clear, therefore, that there are, as far as we are concerned, no conditions laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution, according to which the decree-law can only be used as an exceptional piece of legislation and only, precisely, in cases of extraordinary necessity and urgency. All the more reason, precisely because of its delicacy, I believe that the issue had to be the subject of an ordinary bill. The rapporteur, Mr Ichino, said in his report that a number of rules already laid down in Law No 146 could actually be interpreted in an extensive sense when he speaks, for example, of environmental protection services; now I understand everything, but there is a clear reference to services relating to urban hygiene and waste. With all due respect, there can be no broad interpretation of cultural services. However, we are delighted that the Government has stated that culture and cultural services are essential public services, but from this it was not the limitation of the right to strike, but the investment in this sector. This is the point of the whole issue, because the famous Colosseum decree stems from the fact that for a long time now investments in culture, funding for the Ministry of Cultural Heritage has fallen steadily, with everything that follows. Instead, it was intended to apply this solemn declaration, namely that cultural services and museums are also essential public services, only to intervene with an instrument - that of the decree of urgency - in order to limit a constitutional right. With respect to the reserve of law someone might say that in reality also the decree-law, according to an extensive interpretation, is a legislative measure, without being ordinary in nature. Authors in the doctrine of constitutional jurisprudence consider that the reserve of law cannot be satisfied through the decree of urgency. Moreover, the objections to the fact that the urgent decree does not satisfy the statutory reserve are not surpassed even by the examination of the existence of the prerequisites of necessity. The ratio of the institution of the reserve of law lies precisely in the choice of constituents to reserve the discipline of certain matters to the law, to guarantee rights and freedoms, the constitutionally guaranteed autonomy, as well as the independence and impartiality of bodies and institutions. It is therefore on the basis of these premises that the statutory reserve is a guarantee institution, placed in the Constitution as a garrison of rights and freedoms. In this case, Madam President, we are talking about one of the most sensitive aspects of rights and freedoms, namely the right to strike and, in this particular case, even the right to meet and the right to assembly. All the more so, in our view, the reservation expressly provided for in Article 40 of the Constitution should not have been exceeded and could have been exceeded through the instrument of the urgent decree. Therefore, we reiterate here also the political opportunity that some matters should not be removed from the parliamentary debate by a coup d'état of government genius, through the issuing of a decree-law. We therefore reiterate that the discipline of matters that represent the essential core of the rights and freedoms of citizens, can only go through an ordinary law procedure, all the more in the obvious and acclaimed exploitation of this decree-law, to circumvent precisely the reservation provided for in Article 40 of the Constitution. That is why we ask that we do not proceed with the examination of bill 2110. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u85	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u88	URAS (Misto-SEL). Madam President, the examination of the measure, in addition to the reasons which have been expressed in the question referred to us by Mr De Petris, brings with it some elements of reflection, which I suggest to the Government to consider. In particular, it seems to me that the main issue is the introduction in the measure of a provision of financial invariance, which runs counter to the elevation of this type of essential service. In fact, it is well known that the application of the provisions which result in a place in this area of services necessarily entails costs and, therefore, the measure under consideration, with the introduction of a provision of financial invariance, is in fact also in breach of Article 81 of the Constitution. The opinion given by the 5th Budget Commission, which postpones the coverage of the charges which will be determined by reason of the measure in question to the acts resulting from it, is to be taken into account. You always have to use the highway: shortcuts are never good tools. It is in fact wrong to think that one can protect a sector of the national economy, but also the cultural heritage - which weighs so much in the history of our country, not only from the economic point of view - introducing an element such as that of the placement of this type of service among the essential public services, to prevent the exercise of the right to strike, or rather to limit it, leaving the causes out of the discussion of the measure. Workers in the cultural sector, from the point of view of the instruments they should have in order to better achieve the objective of protecting, enhancing and exploiting cultural heritage, need adequate financial resources and resources and not a rule that prevents them from being properly recognised, including in terms of employment guarantees and professional and salary protection. I would remind you that workers in the cultural sector are among the worst treated in the public service. Moreover, this is a systematic and recurrent violation of constitutional rules. I want to say this because it is these days - perhaps some people are not aware of this - that the Constitutional Court calls for public employees' contracts to be renewed and cannot be blocked, because it cannot always be the citizen who pays the price of State inefficiencies. It is also up to those responsible for building these conditions of general difficulty to pay. The measure in question infringes Article 35 of the Constitution, which states: The Republic protects work in all its forms and applications. Heals the training and professional elevation of workers. It promotes and favours international agreements and organisations aimed at asserting and regulating labour rights. Recognizes freedom........................................................................................... That is the meaning of our Constitution, which Part I of which is not even subject to amendment. Among the principles included in Part I, the Constitution also states that the Italian Republic is founded on work and not on the repression of workers' rights, beginning with remuneration and the right to a regularly renewed employment contract. This is not how we overcome crises: this is how we send a country into crisis. [[Applause from Senator Simenoni]] It's wrong. The measure also infringes Article 36 which states: The worker is entitled to remuneration proportionate to the quality and quantity of his work and in any case sufficient - I repeat: in any case sufficient - to ensure that he or she and the family have a free and dignified existence. Do you think that, in this case, the wages of workers in the public service are to the extent that they provide workers and their families with a free and dignified existence? It's not like that. I repeat: that is not the case. And from an assembly of workers rightly born to claim a right violated, as pointed out by the Constitutional Court, we find the solution to the problem by regulating the right to strike of those workers in a surreptitious way, with a declaration of principle that places the services in question within the essential services. This is not the case and it is wrong: it is a shortcut that forgets everything we have to remember from the point of view of respect for constitutional principles. We are preparing to examine the bill of stability. EUR 300 million is foreseen to renew public employment contracts that have been illegally blocked for years, as the Constitutional Court says. Then remember the Minister, especially for these workers, for the precarious in the field of the protection of cultural and landscape heritage. Remember and make a proposal also in the law of stability of use of the possible resources, because they close to segments (not because they give 10 euros to each), within a plan, which can also be segmented, of renewal of contracts of the public employment, the necessary contractual renewals, so that we finally give an adequate professional structure and respect not only of the rights of the workers, but also of that heritage that is intended to enhance and protect and that can be valued and protected only and exclusively if those workers will be consciously engaged in this function. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u89	I put to the vote the question referred to you for a number of reasons by Senator Catalfo and other senators (QP1) and Senator De Petris and other senators (QP2). It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u90	We greet the students and students of the Institute of Higher Education "Maurolico" (Maurolico), a section associated with the Liceo Scientifico "Galileo Galilei" (Galileo Galilei) of Spadafora, in the province of Messina. Welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u91	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so. [[Brusio]] I would pray to the senators and senators who want to leave the Chamber to do so without making too much noise.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this decree-law is to ensure the continuous and continuous use of the service offered by museums and archaeological sites and to contemplate two fundamental rights: the first is the right of the citizen to the use of essential public services, the other, the exercise of the right of strike which workers have, providing for rules to be respected and procedures to be followed to ensure the effectiveness of the same rights. I believe that there is no punitive intention towards workers who can freely exercise the constitutionally guaranteed right of strike, but within a precise and well-defined framework of rules. The intention of this decree-law is to arrive at a point of balance between the exercise of two rights that we of Italy of the Values believe must both be respected and guaranteed, the right precisely to manifest, to strike and to meet trade unionly by the workers for the protection of their rights, but also the right to use our heritage of cultural assets. The strike must create a disservice, but it must not be the complete denial of another's right. I work in the field of health, therefore essential public service; we have the power to strike by creating a disservice, without totally damaging the right to use the system by the user. No one today would argue that the rules that are in place in health care are an attack on constitutional freedoms. Each of us, imagining ourselves as a patient in need of care, considers it necessary that the Health Service guarantees the minimum level of benefits. This decree-law notes that also the historical, artistic and museum assets constitute an essential public service and that the use and valorization of this service is among the essential levels of the services that this country is required to provide. So often we proudly exalt the fact that Italy is the country with the largest number of UNESCO sites on the planet. Even more often we complain about how much this potential resource is not yet sufficiently transformed into gross domestic product as is the case in other European countries. We almost never remember that having inherited such a cultural and landscaped artistic heritage from our ancestors means that we have a great responsibility towards humanity. We have duties commensurate with the immense value of what we have in custody. It is certainly not only through a responsible exercise of union freedoms that we will save our artistic heritage from decline. But regulating the strike in this area too is a due act that does not preclude the right to claim their rights by workers, who will still be able to hold union meetings and strike. And it is true that no worker likes to strike, seeing himself reduce the pay (often average/low). But this is what we hope to achieve in the exercise of this right to mobilize the worker and push him towards this sacrifice. The noble aim is to resolve disputes by means of consultation tables between the parties, and thus to lay down rules does not prejudice the successful outcome of the negotiation from the worker's point of view. Wild strikers, disrespectful of users' rights, often have a counterproductive effect, depriving workers of the necessary support of citizenship towards their claims. I think that this is a decree-law which, although small in terms of lines and words, has a great value, because the use of historical and cultural heritage is attributed to the social importance of other essential public services such as health and transport. And for those who, like me, fight so that so many works of art and places of memory, less famous but equally essential, remain usable to all citizens, this provision represents an additional argument to assert towards the Government and all those political forces that tend to forget the importance of protecting the cultural heritage of our country from decline and abandonment. Like the castle of Sammezzano in Reggello, which has come to the fore these days, or like the Badia di Settimo in Scandicci, which has been waiting for years to be acquired by the State: just to remember two sites for which the Committee on Culture has committed the Government to intervene. [[Applause from Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u93	Senator Sacconi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u94	Madam President, I would like to thank you specifically. I immediately express our agreement to this measure, which should be converted into law as soon as possible and - I hope - with a final vote by this House. I intend to take a look at the facts that have accelerated the political will expressed by the Government, that of attracting into the scope of the regulation of the right to strike also the cultural and historical assets of the nation. They were episodes not only attributable to a questionable trade union action, at the moment when he wanted the organization of the assembly at times of particular and intense use of these goods. However, we cannot accept the responsibilities, including managerial responsibilities, which in the context of public administrations shared the convocation of that assembly and gave their assent. Because it is true that, especially in the context of public administrations, we all too often feel the lack of that good employer who is a guarantee of fair and efficient industrial relations. Therefore, we welcome the decision to consider public good that of the use of the historical, cultural and artistic heritage of the Nation. However, when it is easy for us to share this extension of the scope of the current law, we cannot fail to point out that it has proved insufficient to ensure the conciliation of constitutionally protected rights: on the one hand that of workers to the proclamation and exercise of the strike, but on the other hand that of persons or that set of rights which the Constitutional Charter protects with regard to persons from their free movement. Therefore, the focus is specifically on public transport. It is no coincidence that, as Minister of the Berlusconi Government, I had the opportunity to present to the Council of Ministers and then to Parliament a draft law delegated on that occasion to regulate the matter again, so that the conciliation between constitutionally protected and potentially conflicting interests could become much more effective. During this parliamentary term, in addition to the re-submission by me of that draft law, my colleague Mr Ichino and others usefully presented a bill with similar content, even more detail because it is a draft law which is immediately operative; moreover, my colleague Mr Di Biagio, who belongs to my own parliamentary group, proposed a legislative initiative on the same subject. The Constitutional Affairs and Labour and Social Security Committees have already begun their journey, which we hope will be completed relatively quickly; after having audited the representatives of representative organisations of workers, entrepreneurs, consumers and users, the Commissions will be able to proceed with the examination of the amendments in the aftermath of the Stability Act and I therefore hope to propose to this House an agreed text as soon as possible. The need is frequently expressed and, as I said, it is addressed not only to trade unions, but also to employers' organizations or to companies - to say the least - when they have responsibilities for the interruption of normal industrial relations and the convocation of the strike takes place. I stress a fundamental problem: that of the representativeness of the collectives who promote the strike. The strike is an individual right in terms of exercise, but in my opinion - I am also addressing the science of our rapporteur - it is a collective right at the time of the proclamation, which cannot but be carried out by subjects of adequate representativeness and in the absence of this representativeness can not be first checked the consent to all workers through a referendum. In the same way, other ways must be found to prevent the objective of trade union action, perhaps of very minority trade union organisations, not so much to affect the interests of the other party, but to use users as hostages in the definition of different relations with the other party. I therefore think that specific disciplines should be adopted with regard to the prior communication of membership of the strike, so that users can be given information about the actual possibility of using the public good regulated, especially public transport services. As well as I believe that the revocation cannot be carried out at the last moment, with that announcement effect that causes public damage, without there being the corresponding responsibility of the workers in joining the strike. Or, again, as Mr Ichino's text proposes, the same regulation of the trade union assembly must take place at times when minor damage can be to the community. And more. But those draft laws also have a greater ambition: to promote, as much as possible, the prevention of conflict through instruments of arbitration and conciliation, which today are absolutely ineffective. This leads to the strengthening of the guarantee committee for the right to strike in essential public services, transforming it into a more general Commission for Industrial Relations and the composition and prevention of conflict in industrial relations. In short, I do not think that we should proceed with the full implementation of Articles 39 and 40 of our Constitutional Charter, as well as the regulation, which was also provided for in the Charter, with specific reference to the right to strike, but rather that, at least in sensitive areas where other constitutionally protected interests come into play, the time has come to identify a balanced discipline, as was certainly in the intentions of the current legislation, which, however, has not proved to be such an effort. We cannot, all the more in modern times and with the need for legitimate competitiveness of the country system, fail to assume the objective of a more effective definition - I repeat - of the necessary conciliation between the legitimate and fundamental right, internationally recognized, to free trade union organisation and strike, on the one hand, and the equally fundamental right of people to the use of public goods and, in particular, to free movement, on the other. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Petraglia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u95	Madam President, of course, as Senator De Petris and Senator Uras have said, we are opposed to this measure which we find totally illegitimate, unconstitutional and dangerous. It is a measure that will not represent an increase in citizens' rights, which we would need so much in time for jobs act and widespread precariousness, but a warning for workers of all the public employment, to understand that they will have to submit to the political will of the government on duty. In other countries of the European Union, which we often refer to as a model, museum sites of international importance have been closed to the full, up to ten days, to demonstrate the right to strike, and no authority, neither local nor national, has ever dreamed of taking any action to limit or regulate this right. It is certainly not the assemblies of workers that damage the image of the country. On the other hand, it is damaged by the lack of financial commitments that the Government should take for the restructuring, strengthening and full exploitation of the artistic heritage. For its enhancement concrete resources are needed to assume all precarious - this means certainty and stability - and to invest in new objectives. The regulation of the right to strike for essential services is being pursued to ensure the use of a right. What is most indignant to us is that in order to guarantee these rights you wash your conscience by regulating only the right to strike, preventing workers from organizing themselves to defend their rights. You've opened an absurd war between rights. You're destroying the culture of work, and you're doing it with a repressive idea. If you wanted to promote the use of the Italian historical and artistic heritage, it would have been enough to summon the unions and pay the ancillary salary; equally, you could make a decree-law to hire, unlock the turnover, recover the many holes of organic and make really usable, through a quality occupation, those cultural assets that are not. A nice Saturday afternoon, June 30, 2013, tourists found themselves closed and barred Ponte Vecchio, without any notice. Until evening, private staff kindly invited tourists and residents not to cross the planters to enter the bridge. This is because the then mayor of my city, Matteo Renzi, had rented to a private company the use of the entire bridge, without any notice for citizenship or tourists, even those who had arrived only for that day. And it is certainly not the only case: at the beginning of October, tourists stayed outside the Villa della Regina, in Turin, because it hosted the young managers of the Unicredit training program; a few months ago, the National Library of Florence hosted a fashion show; a golf course appeared and even a tremendous party of 80s style was held, but you prefer not to talk about it; the Reggia of Turin was barred three hours in advance to organize an embarrassing costume party; at the diocesan museum in Milan there were courses of pilates; at Santa Maria della Scala, in Siena, a banquet of international bankers. If we really care about the right of tourists and the dignity of our cultural heritage, why not regulate the rent to individuals instead of abolishing workers' rights? If we really want to protect access to culture, we block the policy of cutting culture and entertainment. It is ignoble what you have done, that is, to exploit the Colosseum from which this decree-law began: it was a real exploitation for your decision to make politics by speaking to the belly of the people, because you raised the case only at assembly and not before, despite being advertised by some newspapers. What actually happened on September 18? Workers respected the rules that day too, in that assembly that was regularly convened. What happened on September 18 is not the responsibility of the workers, but of your bad organization, the Ministry and the supervisors. You have not been able to organize that day and you have used everything that has happened to make a decree-law that has nothing to do with the use of cultural goods. You of the Government and, in particular, Minister Franceschini, have used the assembly to unleash a veritable lynching against the workers and all this is really shameful. You have been forced to acknowledge that there was no violation of the rules, which shows, once again, that you have chosen to make a political operation in front of the country: say that the workers who protest cannot do so and, while the monuments fall apart, instead of making resources available and organize you better, try to make the country believe that the culture is in difficulty because of the workers. Stop telling these lies. It is good to remember that today it is the workers who guarantee the use of the assets of the artistic heritage, when they guarantee the service while being under staff, even if they are unable to make themselves pay overtime and while seeing cut the funds for them. All this is already regulated by collective bargaining. It is quite clear, however, that, among the extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency invoked under Article 77 of the Constitution, the consequences of an assembly of workers cannot be included, which lasted less than three hours legitimately required to react to the continued failure to pay the ancillary work to which workers are entitled. What is really lacking from the Government is the willingness to confront trade unions and to give back the right role to the instrument of collective labour bargaining. What is lacking is the desire to restore the role and prerogatives of Parliament, which would be a Member of Parliament to intervene, where necessary, on the laws in force. No wonder this attack on workers comes from your government, in perfect line with what is happening in a part of Europe: you are exactly aligning with what is happening in Germany with Merkel and in England with Cameron: a beautiful compact front of right-wing governments. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and Mixed-Idv Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u96	Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Subsecretaria, the Decree-Law No 146, which we are debating today, whose bill of conversion has been approved, with amendments, by the Chamber of Deputies at first reading, includes the services of opening to the regulated public of museums and other institutes and places of culture within the scope of the rules on strike in essential public services. The Chamber has then limited the reference to museums and other institutes and places of culture belonging to public subjects. There are two important points: to enhance the cultural heritage and its use, which are added in our Constitutional Charter to the rights that define citizenship; that is, to include in the Constitution the culture, the valorization of our large cultural heritage (we have 52 UNESCO sites on a world total that counts 1,007). In addition, cultural goods are considered an essential public service, to reaffirm the right of persons, and will be included in the essential levels of performance (LEP). As stated several times by the rapporteur Ichino, the origin of the enactment of the decree-law does not lie in a specific case, namely the aforementioned closure to the public of the Colosseum on 18 September, but in a series of episodes (the Uffizi, Pompeii) that have followed and crossed over the years, with devastating media echoes for our nation, and that have required a decisive intervention by the Government on this matter. Clearly, workers' rights must be respected, just as overtime must be paid in decent times, and the right to attend assemblies must be guaranteed. The right to strike must be guaranteed and protected, but, like, the rights of tourists, Italians or foreigners, who, visiting our country, perhaps for the first time, risk being blocked in front of gates, a closed museum, an archaeological site with closed doors. Our country has given a miserable image of itself with this behavior. I can think of the students in the queue, the elderly, the tourists who are in a tidy line waiting, maybe under the sun or the rain; people who maybe crown a dream, that of enjoying something, a piece of our Italy, with its beauties, with its monuments, the villas, the castles. But we often do not think about what it means for some to enjoy our made in Italy, our food and drink: there is a thirst, a desire for Italy that only we who are in Italy do not notice. Instead, our immigrants abroad and all those who travel for work know that. We must give the possibility to those who do not have such a rich heritage - and my thoughts go to the city that hosts me at this moment, which is a treasure trove of works of art, culture, artistic and cultural heritage stratified in various eras - to be able to enjoy it, to enjoy this heritage. Abroad, our representatives have always emphasized the value of our culture, the richness of our archaeological goods, museums, churches and districts, which are truly of unparalleled beauty. Yet, we know, little has been invested in this heritage: we employ only 0.19% of GDP, less than a quarter of what we spent sixty years ago, in 1955. Let's remember that 1 euro in culture returns to 1.67 of GDP. However, this government has given a boost to this sector. It is not true that we do not invest: we are investing, because we mean culture and artistic heritage as a flywheel of development for our country. For this reason, in the law of stability, just arrived in the Senate, there are very important measures, including an extraordinary competition for 500 young architects, art historians and librarians, who will fill the gaps we have heard about before; the structural confirmation of the art bonus, made permanent at 65 percent, which gave revenue of 33.76 million in October 2015; the strengthening of tax credit and investments in film and audiovisual production (for 25 million). 6.30 p.m. (FAVERO follow). Then there is the increase of resources in favor of MIBACT, whose budget rises by 8 percent in 2016 and 10 percent in 2017. Finally, there are new resources for museums, archives and libraries. All for a package of 200 million. In this context this intervention is inserted, which includes new rules that will serve to protect the strategic weight of tourism and to avoid other bad figures to our country. As pointed out, in fact, cultural goods represent the soul of the Italian image in the world and have a considerable economic value. Include the cultural and artistic heritage of our country among the sectors in which abstention from work is subject to preventive information procedures and special implementation methods does not mean absolutely denying the fundamental right to strike, but emphasizes the will to regulate its exercise, as already happens for hundreds of thousands of workers (in school, in health) who are employed in essential services, in order to guarantee equally fundamental rights of citizens. It is therefore a decree-law of civilization - as defined by Minister Franceschini - that goes against those who, abusing some prerogatives, created a damage to our country, even in the face of both Italian and world public opinion. That is why the urgent adoption of the measure is necessary. You see, many people think that the future of our country is in a virtuous synthesis between businesses and culture; and we Italians have both. We are different from the Germans and in this we are different also from the French. We have an inclination to synthesis between humanism and science, literary and artistic visions; we know how to combine technology with the culture of design, know-how and product. The roots are ancient and sink into the Renaissance. I can think of a name among all: Leonardo. Then I think of today, I think of our territories, I think of my Biella, the excellences, I think of young people, the teachers, who in my territory are precisely called masters: master Pistoletto, master Nespolo, master Zorio. I could also add master Cerruti in fashion. I think of the transmission of our knowledge through the school, therefore the union between art, culture, artistic heritage, our young people, the school, the transmission in the school. I am thinking of CERN, the Politecnico di Torino e di Milano, the University of Pollenzo (the university of taste). Finally, I would like to mention and mention, among the many Biellans that come to mind, also one who has trod this Senate, Minister Quintino Sella, several times Minister of Finance, who had already understood in 1860 the value of the public library, usable for all. Usability has often been mentioned in the Commission, saying that it was a word that was not well in this measure. For me, however, cultural heritage, such as a museum, is to be enjoyed in all hours of the day. There is someone in the Commission who had also suggested increasing opening hours. We know of the great success that the nights have had in the museums, the nocturnal enjoyment of this heritage; we must come to offer to all this possibility, especially to those who have less opportunity in their lives to enter a library, a theatre or a museum. We must create this synergy, so that there is maximum usability. I'm sure, as it says in the "Idiot" of Dostoevsky Prince Myškin, that beauty will save the world. I add one thing: beauty and culture certainly make it a more pleasant place to live. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u98	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u99	Madam President, like most or perhaps all the measures launched by the current Government, we have a good title: Emergency measures for the use of the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. Even Nation is written with the capital "N," an expression that would have been silenced and attacked with the heavier adjectives a few decades ago, perhaps on that very political side. It is, however, beyond this emphasis on the nation, a title that can be fully shared, as in the case of most measures. Think of the so-called good school (who is for bad school?), or to the provision of jobs act (in that case there was a language problem, but who is against the job, i.e. jobs?). Then, to be sure, one appreciates with some amazement that a measure concerning the right to strike, which must certainly be regulated, as the Constitution also says, is registered - we mean, it is a media aspect, but also in the order of signatures - to the Minister of Cultural Heritage. It is very curious that the strike, which seems to be the prerogative of the Ministry of Labour, is instead of cultural goods. This is because everything originates from a sudden impossibility of fruition no less than the Colosseum by the numerous tourists who come to our country, in particular in the Capital. The Colosseum is a kind of symbol not only of this city but even at national level, so of course everyone has expressed unanimous indignation because even an assembly, occupying the time of the workers who were to keep this extraordinary monument open, prevented tourists from visiting it, so we all immediately, instinctively stand on the side of a measure that avoids the repetition of such events. However, it would be interesting to go and see why there was this assembly: it was not precisely unmotivated, as it turns out that the workers, in strict compliance with the rules, decided to ask for an assembly because for ten months they had not been paid overtime. Now, if it is true that seeing the Colosseum (whether you come from Rome or Tokyo or from who knows where) can be qualified as an essential level - for which it has been introduced, frankly instrumental, among the essential levels of assistance along with lifesaving drugs and other such things - it is also true that being paid for the work that you do seems to me an equally essential level, because the means by which every family is supported, except in the lucky cases of huge assets, come from the work that the members of that family carry out. When, then, such family members have more than one dependent person, there are several people who depend on only one. We agree that, goodness of their employers, these workers were paid monthly, but, since they were asked to do overtime - it is not they who do so on their own initiative - it would be the minimum to pay compensation for these overtime. Well, in view of the fact that these workers had not received answers nor the money, past a month and then another, in which they continue to keep open this extraordinary monument to the public's enjoyment, one fine day, probably in the hope of not even having to do so, they ask - six days in advance instead of the three provided by the law - to be able to make an assembly specifying the reason for it. No response comes and after these six days the assembly is held and people are outside the Colosseum. Well, it seems to me that the responsibility for this closure of the Colosseum for a half-day in that particular circumstance is imputable not to workers but to those who do not pay them. To the same tourists who came there and undoubtedly were very disappointed - perhaps it was the only half day they had to see this extraordinary monument - if it had been explained why those workers strike, maybe they would have been a little less disappointed, or maybe just as disappointed, but they would have changed the object of their disappointment, because they themselves if they could afford a trip (long or short that was) to come to Rome, it is because when they work they are paid. It would be right, therefore, to pay for overtime, whether it is at the Colosseum or at a factory of any kind, whether it is at the registry or at the railroad, because when a person works he must be paid. It is a fairly elementary principle; there is no need for a great evolution. The book of Deuteronomy also recalls this right and sets the deadline for payment at sunset. Now we have evolved, we no longer pay per day, but per month: I think that you could get to make the payment within a month or at most within the following month. Ten months for a payment seems a lot to me. So, it was collected by the media, perhaps in an instrumental way - which would not surprise me, even if the media still do their job and their choices - and it was decided to intervene, not to remember that the workers have the right to be paid, but to remember that the workers must not meet in the assembly, if they guarantee the enjoyment of an archaeological, cultural and so on. Frankly, dealing with the problems in this way seems to me totally pretentious, useless and tantalizing spectacularity. The problem exists and there is also, surely, the problem of certain strikes, which are made unreasonablely, and perhaps of certain assemblies, which are summoned in a way that is not acceptable: however, we must take care of the whole sector. In front of workers who meet in the assembly because they are not paid, there may be a provision, but at that point, that they keep open the Colosseum, a library, the registry office or the tribute office I would say that little changes. On the other hand, however, we would need a strict rule that imposes certain payments. I also read that these workers, who were not paid overtime, were not paid directly by the State, but by a cooperative, which for as many months had received nothing from the public body, which should have paid it. We have in practice the State that, being guilty of not having paid the cooperative, which in turn would have had to pay the workers, is angry with the workers themselves. It is a summary of the state that is done justice itself, of that State described by Saint Augustine, according to which, when the State behaves like pirates - who in this case had kidnapped Julius Caesar - there is no difference between the State and the pirates, except that the State is stronger. It is right to address the issue of the right to strike and its exercise, whose regulation is provided for by the Constitution itself, but it cannot be done either by decree-law - to act on the right to strike by decree-law is a spectacular matter, but very contrary to the Constitution - nor in a sectoral way - many believe that the provision concerns only the Colosseum, but in general concerns the use of culture - and by inserting presumptuously the use of artistic goods among the essential levels of performance. The state cuts funds to health, does not pay private companies - despite the numerous proclamations, there are still tens of billions of euros of payments that public administrations owe to private individuals and that they continue not to pay - and this sector is even more essential than the use of the Colosseum. The same state, however, then approves the laws against workers who - think a little, colleagues - are not being paid, are so vicious and recuperated that they are called to assembly. Faced with these facts, we can see the consequences of a spectacularization of politics and also of the slimmed-down politics, which is part of the same series as the President of the Council, who says that he will have fun talking to the representatives of the Regions, who complain that they have to cut - yes - the essential levels of assistance, if the law of stability is not changed. The President-in-Office of the Council has fun, but I think the Italians have less fun. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u100	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u101	Madam President, the measure we are debating today has been invoked several times by us. In fact, we members of the Conservative and Reformist Group have always had and continue to have at heart the full valorization of our historical and artistic heritage not only with regard to its conservation, but also with regard to the unquestionable positive relapse that it can and must have, through tourism, on the increase of our GDP. Tourism is one of the most virtuous human activities, the one that stands out in gross domestic product because it generates more culture, more economy, more society, more civilization and more universal peace. In this regard, I greet the authoritative presence in the Chamber, on behalf of the Government, of the Undersecretary Ilaria Borletti Buitoni, who is more aware of what I am saying out of rhetoric. Tourist mobility in fact favours the processes of relaxation on the most varied world chessboards, otherwise one would not understand the cynicism of the terrorists of ISIS who irreparably destroyed the treasures of art and history of the ancient city of Palmira, symbol of millenarian passages between Western and Eastern civilizations, as well as the barbaric assassination of the director of the museum of Palmira, to whose memory today the Senate of the Republic must bow deferently. Returning to the subject we are dealing with, it is the same Constitution that in Article 9 includes among the fundamental principles that of the promotion and development of culture, as well as the protection of the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. It is clear that these principles, in order to be fully implemented, must be conceived and incorporated by the legislator into those benefits relating to civil and social rights, the protection of which must be guaranteed uniformly at national level. It is necessary to break the controversial habit that for too long now has allignated in Italy, by virtue of which corporate interests, often of small minorities of workers, can justify the paralysis of activities of collective interest both social, economic, as well as cultural, which are certainly the tourist flows aimed at the use of the historical and architectural heritage of our country. We are talking about strike, crossed arms that end up keeping closed the gates of an archaeological area, a manor, a gracious building or a munificent palace. In other words, if the abstention from work is undoubtedly a constitutionally guaranteed right, nevertheless it must not prejudice - I quote the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court - functions or services to be considered essential for the character of pre-eminent general interest within the meaning of the Constitution, nor harm - still states the Supreme Court - other constitutionally guaranteed freedoms, always having to ensure a minimum of services that adhere to the essential services. It is in these terms that it has repeatedly clarified the right to strike the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. It is in this sense that the right to strike, especially in nerve sectors such as the one we are dealing with today, must be compared by limiting itself to the same constitutionally protected rights that cannot be hostage to an indeterminate archipelago of trade union acronyms often by the uncertain representativeness, but nevertheless capable of producing serious consequences not only throughout the national territory, but also beyond our national borders in terms of undeniable damage to the image of Italy in the world. All this is proof of the unfortunate story that gave rise to the measure that we are dealing with today, that is the disappointment of thousands of tourists gathered in a row under the Colosseum closed by strike of the personnel employed. If anything, it is regrettable that the MIBACT would have held - but it is all to be verified - in compressing the rights acquired by employees or in relation to the economic performances and the work processes that must never be compressed and mortified. On this point, we Conservatives and Reformists believe that we must make a proper contribution in order to make this measure even more significant, with a more precise scope, always in line with constitutional dictates. Therefore, to this end, we have tabled a number of amendments which we hope will be supported by this House because, if they are adopted, they will finally be able to bring Italy into line with the levels of far more advanced countries on this issue, such as Great Britain and Germany. Specifically, we believe that strengthened rules are needed in these areas, which result in a prior referendum between all workers, for whose validity the participation of the absolute majority of them and the vote in favour of the absolute majority of the workers affected by the referendum are necessary. We also intend to affect the representativeness of the persons entitled to proclaim the strike by imposing a quota of representativeness not less than 50% and with the forecast of the favorable vote of at least 40% of the members. Finally, in order to discourage improper exploitation, we believe it is essential to introduce the ban on strike on pre-festive and post-festive days. Madam President, the Group of Conservatives and Reformists believes that this measure, improved with the amendments we have tabled, will finally give a new impetus to the sector of cultural tourism as a fundamental driving force for the economy of our country and the development of the nation. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u102	We greet and welcome the second group of the students of the Institute of Higher Education "Maurolico", a section associated with the Scientific High School "Galileo Galilei" in Spadafora, in the province of Messina, who are today visiting the numerous Senate, so much so that they must also be divided into groups. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u103	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u104	Madam President, we have just finished dealing with the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, which we believe are also deeply justified. The urgency of a measure like this, in fact, is an invention: we cannot decide to extend with a decree-law the number of essential public services, fixed with law and with in-depth discussions, to the cultural goods of this country because of the unfortunate events. At this point we can justify everything - I believe that in this House we are no longer surprised at anything - because the mockery has become the constant. Regulations are systematically bypassed, the Constitution is systematically ignored, the right prejudices are rejected, so we no longer have rules and we accept this new way of lawmaking. As we have said, we would have preferred to discuss this matter and not to go along with the Government, also because, ladies and gentlemen, if we simply convert the measures that the Government brings into this House, justifying them also from the point of view of necessity and urgency, this means banally Parliament's total expropriation of legislative measures. We're okay with that. We would have preferred a bill. The government could present it, the majority groups could present it, but this instrument would still allow a minimum of debate. A good debate could have been held and the various issues could have been explored. No, it's not. On the run, because the government wants the medal, so they can say they did the "reform" and put the unions in the corner. Because, in the end, this is the result: the unions can raise their voices and say what they want, but the government legislates and shuts their mouths to these too. The technical aspect is also dangerous. Extending and bringing cultural heritage back into the concept of essential public good, as well as being a force, is also a risk, which could degrade the importance and even the scope of essential public goods. We know the origin of the matter. First the Uffizi Gallery, then Pompeii and the Colosseum closed for union retaliation. Endless tails, people waiting to come in, but no one would open the doors. We thought about who, maybe, had previously purchased a ticket, had also paid it and maybe left from far away, from overseas. Once we get there, what's your idea about our country? We can imagine: he could not make the visit, even if he had paid in advance the total cost. One point that I have not heard mentioned in the debate either in the Commission or in this House is the importance and economic importance of the cultural sector. If we look at some European countries, the culture sector generates a GDP which, for example, in France exceeds 90 billion, which is four percentage points of French GDP. Germany also has more than 80 billion GDP generated by the culture sector, which for Germany accounts for 3% of its GDP. Well, we don't get to those figures, but we are the richest country in sites and places of historical-artistic interest. Italy boasts 3,400 museums, 2,000 archaeological sites, 52 UNESCO World Heritage Sites out of 360 of the whole European community. Why can't we also generate GDP and economy from this sector? The simple answer is that, first of all, it is an excessively trade-unionised sector; secondly, bureaucratized; in essence, statified. What did international newspapers write on the days when files, queues were being created, and museums were not being opened? We can imagine that. The image given is that, in the first place, we are a disorganized country and that, secondly, we do not even know how to manage our assets. Basically, the situation at European and international level can no longer be remedied. I repeat, we would have preferred a bill. This was a subject to be examined in greater depth. But above all, it was necessary to do what the government did not do, that is to find at least one counterpart and combine a condescension on what was then to be done. Allow me to make a little argument. We have always seen the left perched on certain positions: workers' rights do not touch each other. But did a genetic mutation occur? Let's think about what we're letting go! A great limitation for a certain sector of workers' right to claim strike. We have just approved a reform of labour law, the famous jobs act, which basically allows flexible layoffs. Today, tomorrow or the day after, we will raise the threshold for the use of cash to 3,000 euros, because it is a rule contained in the law of stability. Taxes will be cut on the first house. And we say: well come, because we had already done this cut. Too bad that, when these initiatives made her the centerright, on the left side there were demonstrations one day yes and the other also, squares full of protesters, roundabouts, roundabouts, violet peoples, fuchsia, ultraviolet, ultra angry. It's okay now. Nobody gets angry anymore. But why? Just because these initiatives come from a left-wing government? We have not yet understood these genetic transmutations of the Italian left. Synthetically, what is the point on which we should all converge? To valorize our heritage. To enhance it you need to increase the number of visitors, really have a better tourist offer and additional services, a better structural offer of the welcome. However, it is clear that if Rome, which has the great concertation of historical and artistic assets, is managed as we know (from transport, cleaning, what happens when it rains), this management certainly cannot help the usability of the architectural assets. In this case there is a great risk and, if in essence we could also share this text (maybe in the explanation of vote we will say how the North League will express itself), we would not want this to be made possible perhaps by doubling the staff of the cultural sector, so that, for example, those who do not work today can make the assembly, those who work tomorrow will be able to strike the day after tomorrow, because this would certainly not be the correct answer. Even the closing rule that has been written certainly is not enough to prevent this, because it has been written that the implementation of these provisions will be provided with human, instrumental and financial resources available to existing legislation; however, in the term "current legislation" there is all the budget of the state available, there is all the staff of the public employment that could be hijacked in this field. We have tabled amendments on this very subject in order to avoid this risk. We hope that they will be taken into account. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u105	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill certainly goes in the right direction, but for intellectual honesty I think it is necessary to start from a fact: culture is worth about 80 billion euros, 5.8% of our gross domestic product (by the way, it is a clear denial to that minister who said that culture is not eaten). However, despite this, over the last twelve years the Ministry's budget has been almost halved on the altar of the stability pacts and the diktats of the various successive Ministers of the economy. The decree-law that inserts the use of cultural goods among the essential public services must therefore be considered only as the first piece of a mosaic that will necessarily have to be much wider, because it cannot be ignored that many museums have been in serious economic difficulties for years, since they are no longer able to carry out even a minimal scientific activity. If it is, as has finally been recognized, essential public services, then we must make a consequent qualitative leap in investment in culture, otherwise the main obstacle to the provision of these services would become, instead of the fig leaf of the union assemblies, the State itself, and this would be an unsustainable contradiction in terms. I would like to remind you that for UNESCO, Italy has the highest number of heritage assets in the world, and this figure is in contrast to the public spending of our country on culture: only 1% of gross domestic product compared to 2.2% of the EU average. Going back to the measure that we are discussing, I think it is right, indeed right, that in the field of culture the trade union activity is made compatible with the guarantee of a minimum service to be provided to users, obtained also through the instrument of preceptation. It is no less a right for trade unions, but if anything an additional right for citizens. In fact, there is no limitation to the legitimate right to make an assembly in the workplace or to proclaim a strike: simply, the modalities and timing of the union agitation must be subjected to the scrutiny of the Guarantor. The Law No 146 of 12 June 1990 on strike in public services included from the outset environmental protection services and supervision services on cultural goods, as the rapporteur, Mr Ichino, pointed out. Therefore, an extensive interpretation of the norm would have allowed to include in the concept of "supervisory services" also those carried out by the facilities responsible for managing the flow of visitors to the places where cultural goods are kept; but for twenty-five years, despite the orientation in this sense of the Guarantee Commission, the most restrictive interpretation has always prevailed. And so, until the day of the chaos at the Colosseum, the apparatuses in charge of the management of the flows of visitors were kept separate from those in charge of protection and vigilance, with the result of their exclusion from the scope of the regulation of the strike. With regard to this decree-law was contested the lack of requirements of necessity and urgency, but the urgency was determined by the black day of the Colosseum, by the precedents of the Uffizi strike and by the one that blocked the archaeological site of Pompeii, with the very serious inconveniences for a very large number of tourists, reported by all the televisions and the media of the world, with a very serious image damage for our country. Precisely the obvious disproportion between the interests involved in trade union disputes and the general interests affected by these episodes of blocking the service has highlighted the dual nature of public service inherent in the supervisory service: it constitutes public service both as it ensures the preservation and protection of the cultural good, and as it allows the use of the good by a vast audience of citizens. It is not by chance that the President of the Strike Guarantee Authority, calling on Parliament - that is, us - to intervene as soon as possible on such a sensitive and crucial matter, has spoken of this measure as an extraordinary opportunity to start an urgent reflection on the need to make other amendments to Law No 146, which remains a good law, which has borne fruit but which needs to be updated. I am thinking of the whole debate on trade union representativeness, which is another central issue to be resolved, and an increase in the powers of mediation of the Guarantor in terms of preventing the collective labour conflict, especially with regard to disputes of national importance, where there is not only the interest of workers, but also that of the country, starting with the defence of its image. Finally, with regard to the constitutional prejudices presented, I would like to point out that the constitutional principles under discussion are certainly those of Article 40, which must be carefully assessed in conjunction with Article 9, which inserts the value of promotion among the fundamental principles, a value which, by modernising it and declining it with our current legal lexicon, also means valorization, use, possibility of using promotion also as a flywheel for tourism. Both the rights guaranteed by Article 40 and those guaranteed by Article 9 must and can therefore be placed on the same footing, because both are constitutionally guaranteed. One final remark, Madam President. The original decree-law covered all public opening services, without excluding from the scope of the rule the places of culture belonging to private subjects. The House has instead limited the extension of the discipline of the strike to the places of culture belonging to public subjects; a contradiction that would have been better avoided, but that in all evidence wants to limit the limitation of the right to strike. In conclusion: this decree-law fundamentally intersects the right to strike and the right to enjoy our cultural heritage. To say that we are faced with an attack on workers, an attack on rights and an attack on trade union democracy seems genuinely out of place. Perhaps there is no democracy in health and transport at present? Is there no union democracy? And what does this decree-law do? Punish someone? No. It raises the culture and the places of its use to essential public services; it does not limit the rights of anyone, not even an hour of rights to union assemblies less, no limitation to the right to strike; only a different regulation, like what happens in health and transport. It is, therefore, an operation for culture and for the enhancement of cultural sites, which, I repeat, goes in the right direction and which every force that declares itself liberal should approve. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u107	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u108	Madam President, I must say that there is no day when there is no more and more difficulty in staying in here, because I believe that the hypocrisy that I unfortunately detect in almost all the speeches I am listening to is intolerable. If I remember correctly, we should be in the Italian Parliament. And what is the Italian Parliament doing, that is, this House? He is saying - if you can say so - that he is banning workers from even meeting to speak. Workers, who on average spend 2,100 hours a year in an ordinary place of work and are entitled to meet for only 10 hours, and therefore for 0.4 per cent of the time they spend in the workplace, are also prohibited from doing so. I remind those who listen to us - because we do not listen here - that, in order to ask for a union assembly, it takes at least forty-eighth in advance and that companies, for technical-management needs, can even reject it. Let's talk about this. And assemblies serve the workers to gather and talk about the issues they face in the workplace, thus democracy in the pure state. What do this Parliament and the many senators who, until recently, even demanded the Statute of Oppositions do, because there was little democracy? Now, what do they do? Those who call for the Statute of Opposition want to abolish in fact not only the assemblies, but the right to strike. I find it hard to remain calm, because - as I have always said - my political and life culture never allows me to be offensive. I find it very difficult to be among you, because most of the senators in here are not worthy of representing the world of work, this country and this democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Council and Mussini Senators]] And I always say this with deep respect and regret, because I always repeat that I love politics but, when I hear certain statements, I really feel strongly indignant. What is the strike? The strike occurs when a worker, tired of suffering angeries and misdeeds that unfortunately happen in the workplace, decides to abstain from his performance. It's a weapon, so to speak - I don't like guns - of defense, and never of offense. When a worker strikes, in fact, it is evident that he has been offended, but pretend that you do not understand. And, with the cowards, can I call them that? - that you prepare to do, that you add to what you do more and more every day that passes, it is really difficult to deal with you, and I repeat. I find it very difficult to be in this House. You hide behind hypocrisies that make no sense or should not. I remind everyone, because someone forgets it, that the workers get up in the morning to go to work to earn 1,200 euros a month, when it's okay. We're talking about this salary. I've worked in the factory for 25 years, I've never seen any workers get up in the morning and think, I'm going to strike this morning. I've never seen him. Instead, you punish them punctually, every day that passes, with policies that make no sense or that only have them in favor of the other side. It is clear who you represent and who you want to represent, is now before everyone's eyes. A couple of weeks ago a hearing took place that is the emblem of what is happening: those who represent strong powers and employers made a very precise statement, which says it all about your policies. He told the government and this majority that they should no longer meddle between the parties, i.e. between unions and companies. He warned that he would no longer meddle, but in the meantime he also said he would make a law for the abolition of strike and union assemblies, as well as for facilitating easy layoffs. On the one hand, therefore, he said not to meddle and, on the other, he asked to make the laws first, so there is only one left between the two sides. And, therefore, the workers will have no right, no guarantee and no dignity at work. If we really talk about culture and want to safeguard it, see that a country without the dignity of work has no culture and no future. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups and the Senators De Pin and Ricchiuti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u109	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u110	Madam President, I would like to propose to this House some thoughts which I made on this subject in the Committee on Culture a few days ago, when we discussed the measure, which I think are still relevant. I begin by making a general remark by expressing a regret, a problematic attitude to the fact that, for some time now, in this House, any subject we are dealing with is always dealt with in a very divisive way, as if it were always a matter of splitting the same House between those who defend the rights and those who do not defend them, between those who defend democracy and those who do not defend it. I understand, after listening to a large part of the debate this evening, that this scheme is being proposed again. Once again we are faced with a highly divisive debate, when I think that the most useful thing to do would be to take on responsibility all together, who shares and who does not share the measure under consideration, even its complexity, the fact that it is one of the classic measures that must try to contemporaneize rights, to put together different types of rights, and not just one by denying it, but more rights by uniting them. If we tackle things from this point of view, I believe that our debate can be more fruitful, more useful, because then at its conclusion, after we have voted on the measure, the world does not stop, and we will have to spend our time in the territories, in the municipalities, around our cultural heritage, trying to make sense of the debate we have held. I would like to start from here, while saying that I understand the different points of view in the field, I do not reject them. It seems to me that the decree-law of the Government has placed itself with respect to the matter in the perspective of the sicumera not of those who have the easy way to solve the problems, but of those who try to offer a positive and useful track, which addresses and tries to solve the problem, while raising the complex of cultural services (whether it be museums, architectural goods, libraries) to the rank of fundamental services of our community. Now, someone called this a pretentious device; someone called it an excuse or a trick. But today we have the result that cultural goods, our museums, the architectural heritage, come with this decree-law defined fundamental services, whose use is a fundamental right of our community. I would not throw this away, because it seems to me a useful result for everyone, and it remains and is something for which in many years we have tried to make progress. There have been periods of progress, periods of backwardness, periods when the theme of culture had disappeared from the priorities of our policy. Today we find him and place him like this. Why do we have to throw this opportunity away? Why should we consider it merely a pretentious maneuver? Even if it were so - I want to reason in these terms - I believe that we still have an argument, a lever through which to try to intervene positively in this area, to remind it also in the future to those who propose it to us today. I think this should be a first approach. With regard to the second question, we must consider the issue of rights in general, trade union rights and social rights, progressively trying to evolve our thinking and not always to deal with the issue in a somewhat static and immobile way. I think that we are faced with a plastic representation, which exists in this and in other areas; the field of health and that of large collective services (transport, etc.) has been mentioned. In these areas we must always work to try to settle, unite and bring together the aspirations, rights, opportunities for expression and social participation of the various components. I do not want to refer to individual cases; most of the interventions have extended in the precise reconstruction, trying to understand whether or not there had been a communication at that time. But that does not seem to me to be up to the discussion we have to make. We know that now in the society in which we live, which is increasingly about communication, information and the transmission of images, there are delicate points on which we must be careful. The point is not to remove one right and protect another, but to see if we can make them live together. On these issues, we have experienced the fact that, in several episodes, there have been certain situations of negation of the use of these structures, these institutions and cultural heritage, and this has also resulted in an international image of our country not positive. This is a subject that we must all take care of; it is not that there is someone who takes on the topic of workers and someone who takes on the theme of image. Let us put them together and fully reason on this. When Italy's image decays, it also harms those workers who organized an assembly at that time and those administrators who denied those workers the rights they had. Therefore, we must try to replace the vicious circuits with a virtuous circuit, which combines a common growth in this direction. Basically, that was what I wanted to say, and I came to the conclusion. In that way, we emerge from the opposition that the staff either value it or demonize it, or reward it or repress it. I don't think things can always be seen in a manly way. On the other hand, I believe that we need to think about an overall evolution of the system. I conclude by saying that I understand the different points of view and I do not escape the objections of those who say that we must be careful about the issues concerning trade union rights and the expression of dissent, which are all part of my personal experience; each of us has spent a part of our life around these things. But if there is a recommendation I would like to make, it is as follows: we must live the subject of the right of movement in a non-static way, because we must understand that there is a huge need for reorganization within these areas. We cannot think that the forms of struggle and agitation prescind from this necessity. And, therefore, it is necessary to adapt culture - including the culture of the trade-union battle and the battle of rights - to the need for reorganization that fights the existing forms of inefficiency and inadequacy. For this reason, I think it would be more useful to have a non-Manichaean discussion, which does not contrast the different sensitivities, but tries once again to make a positive synthesis. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u111	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u112	Madam President, I shall begin immediately to associate myself with those in this House who wanted to restore some truth with some good information. I would like, therefore, to reiterate that the trade union assembly of which we are talking was that of the workers of the Colosseum: a trade union assembly regularly communicated and authorized and done because these workers were not paid the turnout allowance and overtime; which has not yet happened completely. And, then, we will see how the further protests will be regulated after the conversion into law of the decree-law under consideration. This premise, and remaining in this field, would perhaps have been better for the President of the Council and the Minister to have worked diligently not to issue the so-called Colosseum decree, but probably to propose effective and real solutions to heal the serious state of precariousness in which many operators work in the world of cultural goods. They are workers who are often underpaid because of contracts given to the maximum decrease; workers who often cannot even benefit from certain rights, because many of them work with VAT. We hope, therefore, that culture will be officially recognised as an essential service, and that these aspects will also be taken into account. And we also hope that other factors will be put in hand, because defining culture as an essential public service - on which we agree very much - imposes obligations not only on workers (who have been respected in the case of the Colosseum, as in the case of Pompeii), but also on the Government. And, then, let's go see these duties. And we have made the demands in our amending proposal and in our agendas and, therefore, we expect something to be recognised and accepted. If it is true that the use of cultural goods is an essential public service - and I am glad that undersecretary Borletti Buitoni is present here - then let us ensure that all our cultural sites are finally accessible to all people who bring disabilities, all kinds of disabilities. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senators Bignami and Barozzino]] It has been since September 2014 - perhaps since September 2013 - that a table was established, beautiful, that had started with very good intentions. But where did all that project go? Is he lost in the immobilisation of the MIBACT reform? The reform of the MIBACT, in fact, rather than making a rational cut in resources, and therefore rationalising in the direction of maintaining efficiency anyway, has made a rationalization that has further diminished the units of staff, especially for the guarantee of certain services - such as the opening of museums, etc., etc. - which, therefore, still fall under the conditions we know today. Compared to structural investments - I am sorry that Senator Favero is not present - in this law of stability we of structural and structured have not seen anything: we have seen the usual crumbs, the usual promises, because everything is postponed to 2017-2018, when we go to vote, and then clearly everything will fall... on us probably, but we will do better than the previous government! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then - for example - the granting of spaces of cultural sites for private use should be regulated. Now, many events have been mentioned here in this House, but I would like to add... [[The microphone light starts to flash.]] Madam President, I still have minutes left, because no one in my group has entered into the general debate, so please give me one or two more minutes, because we have enough, and for my Group - I repeat - I am the only one to speak. It is therefore necessary to regulate the concession of the use of spaces by private individuals: I remember the case of Villa della Regina of Turin, which has remained closed to the public, with the queues of tourists outside, for a convention of the young managers of Unicredit. [[Applause from the M5S GroupComments by Senator Airola.]] In addition, if this is an essential public service, it would be important not only to set up Sundays at the museum once a month, but also to make it completely free of charge or significantly reduce the costs of access to museums and perhaps also to provide for the strengthening of educational paths. It could be expected - for example - that the management of additional services within these museums will not be entrusted to private individuals, who then constitute an oligarchy of associations and foundations, with clear political affiliations [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , that perhaps act more for the profit than to guarantee the actual use of the sites, and, perhaps, the deriving proceeds could enter the coffers of the State and be used for the valorization, the recovery and the restoration of the goods. Last but not least, if we really want citizenship to feel deeply in its heart - this too is a serious problem - the importance of the valorization and use of our artistic and cultural heritage and the need for these activities to be defined as an essential public service, and therefore a right that can be exercised, we should also grow generations of adults sensitive to the beauty that surrounds us and also interested in the State promoting its conservation and enhancement. All this starts from the school; in the bill on good school, in which the President of the Council and Minister Giannini wrote a beautiful book of dreams, it was also expected the re-introduction and strengthening of the study of the history of art at school. Let's remember that the former minister Gelmini, from great enlightened as he was, decided to remove the study of history from art and to weaken it, because we are a country that does not deserve a generation of adults sensitive to beauty. In the bill on good school there was, therefore, the commitment to re-enforce this matter: but it is a pity that in the article it was also written that the whole should have taken place without further burdens on the State. I am sorry that Senator Martini is not present, but I want to say that it will be good to take serious account of all the amending proposals put forward by the oppositions, because in them are identified many of the duties that the State will have to carry out. And if this government really wants to propose itself as a serious one, which also makes the slogans follow the facts, it will be good that these proposals are taken into consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u113	Only as a clarification, Senator Montevecchi, the time allocated for each intervention in general discussion is that requested by the Group and it is not the Presidency that determines it, within the quota. And I say this out of fairness. Thanks for the concession! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bertacco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u114	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that this House is called upon to convert involves very sensitive and crucial issues for a sector that characterizes our country: the historical and artistic heritage and its enjoyment by citizens. As we all know, following this decree-law of the Government, the discipline on strike in essential public services will also apply to the public opening services of museums and other institutes and public places of culture. And this is because it explicitly affirms the inclusion of the use of our historical and artistic heritage as an activity that falls within the essential levels of performance, referred to in Article 117, second paragraph, letter m), of the Constitution. This means that museums, libraries, archives, areas, archaeological parks and public monumental complexes will have to be protected from the point of view not only of adequate conservation (and restoration, if necessary), but also of an effective public use of the historical and artistic value of the site. In other words, the finalization of the Italian historical and artistic riches to the widest possible enjoyment by the public is complete. However, since the beginning of his experience as a government, the President-in-Office of the Council has always been challenging associations and trade unions and - in my view - even more so when it comes to mortifying and using this Parliament for its own use and consumption. But we know that the real discussion of the measures that come here follows their extra-parliamentary process in rooms other than this House. We all know how the President of the Council has dealt with our Constitution and how he improperly uses the instrument of urgent decree. And in this case, it does so on a right provided and guaranteed by the Constitution. However, what makes this measure even more paradoxical is its genesis. The facts of the Colosseum, recalled in the accompanying report to the decree-law, are nothing but a pretext but, like all lies, have short legs. What happened was not in fact a strike, but the holding of an assembly communicated by the workers six days in advance, instead of the three provided by the norm, because they did not receive the payment of overtime and ancillary wages. The current Constitution, unless the President of the Council has in the meantime deleted it by urgent decree-law, ensures a fair remuneration commensurate with the working hours worked and, therefore, also the payment of overtime. I want to mention just a few numbers that give a sense of the richness of our historical and artistic heritage and the importance of its enhancement. Currently Italy is the nation that holds the largest number of sites - 52 - included in the list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites. According to the World Tourism Organization, in 2014 Italy took fifth place for arrivals and seventh place for revenues in the ranking of world tourist destinations most frequented by foreign tourism. Also last year, according to the World Council for Travel and Tourism, the economic impact of the tourism sector in Italy was € 162.7 billion (around 10% of GDP), guaranteeing employment, direct and indirect, to about 2.5 million people. According to ISTAT, this large flow of visitors heads almost halfway to cities of historical and artistic interest. The Renzi Government, becoming strong again of individual episodes, probably also inflated to art, uses an improper tool and a confused text to try to solve an objective, complex and delicate set of critical issues. The problem exists and is before everyone's eyes and, once again, the Government's will to solve existing problems in a hasty and improvised manner is a fact. The figures I mentioned just now are important and lead me to ask the following question to the members of the Government and the majority: are you really convinced that this measure will always make the historical heritage of our country usable? I don't think so. If one wanted to intervene, it had to be done by verifying the lack of investment and the reason why the workers had not received overtime for months, building a bill that was a true reform, containing a reorganization of the sector. Today we should have been concerned about giving adequate tools to intervene on the causes that led those workers to strike or, in the case of the Colosseum, to request the holding of an assembly. Above all, I would not like to find myself in the situation in which so many visitors and foreign tourists get stuck at the entrance of our sites by carelessness or, worse still, by some collapse resulting from a policy that is not careful to the problems of the sector. Our duty is to build paths to improve the protection and enhancement of our unparalleled cultural heritage. We must put in place the experience of virtuous and efficient management and adopt innovative solutions, such as the introduction of technology in the preservation and use of cultural goods. We are certainly not on the side of those who use their right in a wild way, but I repeat: we would have liked to discuss in an organic and targeted way a serious policy of support of the many sites that represent a large part of the historical and artistic heritage of humanity. Certainly, however, we are on the side of the Constitution and, therefore, we do not agree with the way in which the President-in-Office of the Council acted, which in fact intervened with an urgent decree on the Constitution. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u115	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u116	Madam President, at the end of this general debate in this House and of the debate we have held in the Commission, I would draw attention to the title of this decree-law: urgent measures for the use of the nation's historical and artistic heritage. I am sorry that Senator Malan left, who had to criticize the fact that the word "Nation" was written in this decree-law with the capital letter. I would like to remind him that, in Article 9 of the Constitution, the word "Nation" is written precisely with the capital letter, because the nation is the nation. With this decree-law, which we are about to convert to law definitively, the Government proposes that the concept of the protection of the artistic heritage of the Nation, which is contained in Article 9 of the Constitution, should be understood as the use of cultural goods. It is a very important and fundamental step forward for a country like ours, and we have all recalled it: if there is something that unites us, it is the data on the monumental heritage of our country, which is unparalleled in the world. Protection, therefore, is understood as use and accessibility. I remember that accessibility is probably one of the greatest values by which one can read the degree of democracy of a country. The debate in the Commission and in the Assembly in the Senate, but also in the Chamber, has developed a lot on the issue of unconstitutionality. In this regard, I would like to refer to a number of issues. This decree-law is urgent precisely because it is necessary to ensure the timely application of measures aimed at ensuring the continuity of the public service for the use of the historical-artistic heritage of the Nation. And the opening to the public of museums and places of culture is considered, in this measure, within the framework of essential public services, to be guaranteed and protected in the interests of the whole community, extending the discipline in the matter of strike of essential public services, referred to in Law No 146 of 1990, also to the activity of opening to the public of museums and places of public culture. We have all recalled this law, but we must remember that it dates back to 1990 and - as the rapporteur Mr Ichino has pointed out very well - it is limited only to environmental protection and supervision services for cultural goods; therefore, already in 1990 there was a reference to the sector. This extension is consistent with Article 40 of the Constitution, which provides that the right to strike is exercised within the framework of the laws governing it. This is our constitution. Then there is the code of cultural heritage of 2004, which already introduces the concept of fruition, and here we have arrived at this decree-law - in my opinion - fundamental. Senator Martini recalled how we legislators, the Government and Parliament, we have an obligation, I would say the responsibility to hold together two fundamental needs: the protection of the exercise of strike and meeting in the assembly of workers and workers and the safeguarding of the full and effective enjoyment of the rights of the constitutionally recognized person, including that of accessibility and usability of goods of cultural and artistic interest. I would like to remind you that the ratio of Law No 146 of 1990, to which we add cultural heritage, is precisely this, and not the suppression or elimination of rights. The ratio of Law No 146 of 1990 is to regulate essential public services, such as the establishment of the guarantee committee. The argument means a reasonable advance notice of strikes and assemblies. Senator Ichino recalled that in the working committee we are discussing draft laws on the issue of the regulation of strike. Therefore, since 1990 no one has suppressed rights in this country, but we have only regulated them, to hold together workers' rights and the needs of the community. And that's what you do in this decree-law. I would also like to remind Senator Montevecchi that these are not talk, but numbers. We are about to face the examination of the bill of stability here in the Senate and there are 150 million destined to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage. We know that, historically, the country has not invested in culture, but the bill of stability, as it has arrived in Parliament (but we can also improve it in the course of work), still proposes an increase in resources and is, therefore, fundamental for our country. I conclude by pointing out that - as Senator Martini said well - these should be cross-cutting issues. We take the Colosseum as a symbol, and this is where we must keep the various needs together. The Colosseum is not a monument like many others. It is the symbol of Italy, probably the one recognized worldwide. Well, taking this as a symbol, it is there that we must exercise the responsibility to keep together the right of workers and workers to assemble. It is not a question that only concerns tourism: the Colosseum must be as accessible and accessible as possible for its beauty, for the history it brings and for all the cultural and human heritage that our country, Italy, sees represented in it. [[Applause from Senator Russo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u117	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u118	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u119	Madam President, I would just like to give a few brief and brief answers to some of the notations that have emerged in this debate. The first is addressed to Senator De Petris, who felt that he contradicted the statement I had made in the report about the fact that Law No 146 of 1990 could already have interpreted and applied in the sense of covering the services we are talking about here today in the scope of the law itself. Article 1 of that law, when defining its scope, refers to environmental protection and supervision services on cultural objects. It is clear that the service that makes access and visit to these goods possible is also a supervisory service. Therefore, it would not have been a coercion at all if, already in the application of the law in force, the entire apparatus that that law provides for the contemperation between the public interest and the interest of the workers to the freedom of strike had been deemed applicable. I come to another critical objection, which emerged in numerous interventions, which saw converge, in an extraordinary bipartisan harmony, the interventions of Senators Uras, Barozzino, Petraglia, on the one hand, with those of Malan and Bertacco, on the other, and with those, again, of Senator Montevecchi: all referring to the alleged exploitation that would be made by the Government of the episode of the union assembly at the amphitheatre Flavio, at the Colosseum. I would like to make it clear that in that episode of September 18 what came to light as something missing in our system was the right of hundreds, if not thousands, of people queued in the middle of the summer, under the sun, to be informed beforehand that the service would be denied to them. Applying Law No 146 to cultural goods means guaranteeing that right to information. Those who believe that the right to strike is such as to overwhelm this collective public interest and this interest in the country's image show that they have not understood what the balance between interests and rights of constitutional importance is. This was the question that the Government felt it was urgent to address, because the great world manifestation of Expo was underway in Milan (last September there were still two months of waiting for the event to take place) and the new great manifestation of planetary interest of the Jubilee proclaimed by the Supreme Pontiff was announced. So there was, indeed, the urgency to send the whole world the message that episodes such as closing without notice to users and without precise information about the Uffizi, Pompeii's excavations and Flavio's amphitheatre would not be repeated. In this there is no attack on workers' rights, but there is only the need to inform the world that our country knows how to be truly hospitable; it has at heart not only the right to strike and assembly, but also the right of those who come to visit us to be respected in his legitimate expectation. After that, on the subject of the trade union assembly there is more to say, but we will say it in the appropriate place, that is, during the discussion on the drafts of law on the matter: I limit myself here to note that it is not written anywhere that the trade union assembly must be able to be proclaimed at any time, totally regardless of the interest opposed to the functionality of the company, of the service. This applies beyond public services: as well as the way in which the right to leave is exercised, in accordance with Article 2109 of the Civil Code, with the organizational requirements of the company, there is no reason why the procedures for exercising the right to the trade union assembly should not be. Finally, I would like to recall what Senator Martini has said very appropriately, now recalled by Senator Parente, about the fact that applying to this matter of trade union conflict in the field of public services the paradigm of the antagonistic opposition "master-worker," as was done by Senators Uras, Petraglia, Barozzino, Malan and Montevecchi, means applying that paradigm totally out of proportion. First of all, because, in the specific field, the interest of the private master simply does not exist, since the law does not apply to sites, museums and private-owned art galleries. This field has been clearly delimited by the amendment approved to the House, so the conflict between wages and profits to which those interventions have referred has been eliminated. But above all because, in this area, that of essential public services, more than in any other, it is clear that looking at workers' rights as the sole criterion for assessing a legislative or administrative measure means ignoring a right of workers themselves when, instead of presenting themselves as providers of employment, they present themselves as users, as those who benefit from an essential service. Applying that paradigm in this way means not understanding how the world works today, not understanding that workers' rights must be countered with that of users and consumers, who are 95% workers or former workers. Ignoring that contemperation means depriving the workers themselves of their fundamental, constitutionally relevant rights. I conclude by recalling what Giuseppe Di Vittorio said to the Constituent on the right to strike, which was established in our order under Article 40: The imprint with which the right to strike is reborn in Italian legislation after so many years of prohibition and the solemnity with which it is reborn, the sense of measure and the sense of trust are such that we can hope that this sense of measure and confidence presides over the exercise of the right to strike in the years to come, that it is always present to all the necessary proportion between the interests at stake. This seems to me to be the best answer to those who are accusing us of trampling or restricting a constitutional principle. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u120	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u121	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-04-LEG17-Senato-sed-535.ana.u122	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday, November 5, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.58 p.m.
