ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u10	BEEPS (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, excuse me, I will only take a few minutes to discuss significant issues, such as agriculture, which began yesterday afternoon. On other occasions I have spoken of my dissent from parliamentary decisions driven by anti-politics and prevailing populism through public media or, in any case, living with public resources. I confirm this morning that smoothing the hair of anti-politics is a trade that I have never loved, that I do not love and I hope never to love. I've never done this profession. You pay a price, it is true, and I paid prices in my political and personal life, but I chose to do a political job to make a contribution, albeit modest, to the democracy of this Italy. This Italy, and especially the young people of this Italy, needs to receive positive messages. This Italy needs offices to create political culture, holy political culture. If you could also create government culture, we'd be luckier. Here's the point: news filtered by the media tells us that the Senate and Chamber Presidency Offices are preparing to adopt resolutions that provide for the cessation of the provision of social security benefits paid as a life benefit or pension in favour of senators who have ceased their term of office condemned definitively. My colleague, Commissioner, informed us yesterday, through a daily newspaper, that I had a battle with Grasso together and I appreciate it. I said to myself: how beautiful, two votes given by me to two colleagues who hold very important positions in this House; two years ago, therefore, I was right to give my confidence to these two colleagues. But on this occasion I say to my colleague, Mr Commissioner, and to the President of the Senate that there is no appreciation of me, there is no confidence in me. Recycling, competition outside the crime of Mafia, criminal association, involved in the Enimont trial, Mondadori trial. A person who has committed a crime presented in this way because he must have a high pension paid by taxpayers? I will then say at the end of my very brief speech who are the holders of these pensions. The Constitutional Court in judgment No. 70 of 2015 says: The legislator may not circumvent the limit of reasonableness. The criterion of reasonableness is set out in the principles contained in the case law in Articles 36 and 38 of the Constitution. Then there is another passage from the judgment that struck me, when the Court speaks of: "unrefundable nullification of the legitimate expectations of the worker for the time after the cessation of his activity". Why change the rules for women and men - in this particular case they are only men, fortunately - who have worked with those rules in place? I change the rules at the beginning of my work, at the beginning of the legislature. I know I'm inside this fence, when I start a professional and professional commitment, and I'm in these rules. I believe that the members of the Presidency Council are faced with an inalienable right, an acquired right, a right that matures with the payment of contributions from the worker and the company, a right to survival. For those who did only that job, there is a right to survival. SANTANGELO (M5S). Poor guy! Mr Lezzi (M5S). This, Madam President, is indecent! [[Protests from PD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u11	Senator Sposetti, I will let you and those who ask me to speak, but I would point out that a debate is not open on this matter, which is the responsibility of the Presidency Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u12	Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). No, you're not!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u13	You're bringing in arguments that are very specific. If there were a debate on the subject, many others would have to talk. I would therefore urge you, if possible, to conclude your speech quickly. [[A lively exchange of comments between the M5S and PD Groups. Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] Quiet! Let Senator Spousetti finish. Then others who want to intervene will be able to do so. [[Lively protests from Senator Lezzi.]] Senator Lezzi, please. Senator Spousetti, please conclude your speech quickly, not to mention people who are unable to speak here. PETROCELLI (M5S). At least five million are unable to intervene here! BEEPS (PD). Madam President, I did not mention anyone. PRESIDENT. - The debate is As you announced that you would mention other people, I urge you not to mention people who are not present in this House. Mr Lezzi (M5S). It's indecent! You didn't have to let that happen! BEEPS (PD). Madam President, you have known me for many years, perhaps too many: I have never done this in my life and - don't worry - I will not do it this time. Mr Lezzi (M5S). Don't do that anymore! Stop! [[Protests from PD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]] Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, let me talk to you. Senator Spousetti, please complete your speech quickly. [[Lively protests from Senator Lezzi.]] Senator Lezzi, let me talk to you. BEEPS (PD). I will be told, however, that reversibility has been guaranteed. Noble guidance and noble decision. However - carefully colleagues - the right to the survival of relatives and children is guaranteed only on condition that the senator is not only an ex, but also was. [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] Excuse me, Senator Spousetti, you're talking about a subject you've been reading about. It is not a resolution on the agenda of this House. Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Like it isn't! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So you have a general opinion, Senator Sposetti, but not on a text that the House does not know. Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). But he lets him know! Let him talk! BEEPS (PD). Madam President, I have collected... [[Comments from the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]] PETROCELLI (M5S). It is not acceptable, Madam President! Mr Lezzi (M5S). Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, Senator Petrocelli, it is the Presidency that decides whether or not it is enough. That's enough! AIROLA (M5S). Then make up your mind! Mr Lezzi (M5S). It dishonors us! CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Let him speak! [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Once in your life, you throw these out! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Spousetti, finish your surgery, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u14	Madam President, I always follow very closely the speeches of my colleagues from the 5 Star Movement Group, for many of whom I also have a sympathy. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). It dishonors your sympathy! It is a disgrace the sympathy of Sposetti! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, I'll call you back to order. BEEPS (PD). Madam President, allow me to conclude: it has been five minutes for Members of the Five Star Movement to speak. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Spousetti, finish your speech. BEEPS (PD). I appeal to the President of the Senate: these discussions, these acts are not carried out during the election campaign. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC) and GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PpI, IdV, VGF.]] [[Warm protests from the M5S Group.]] MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u15	I would ask you once again to conclude your speech, Senator Sposetti, because your time is up. [[Liveful and repeated protests from Senator Lezzi.]] Senator Lezzi, please! Senator Spousetti, finish, otherwise I'll have to take your word for it. AIROLA (M5S). We want the agenda! Shame! Let's get back to the agenda! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Hold on, Senator Airola. SANTANGELO (M5S). Stop! MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). But no more screaming here to talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Sposetti, we understand the meaning of your speech, which I would urge you to consider concluded. BEEPS (PD). Madam President... [[A lively exchange of comments between the M5S and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask Members to understand the sensitivity of the matter. Formigoni (AP) (NCD-UDC). Let him speak! [[Protests from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). You're a bribe! Shame on you! You suck! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, I'm calling you back to order! CASTALDI (M5S). Stay here for immunity! D'Ambrosio Lettieri (FI-PdL XVII). President, do you feel the most serious offenses? Stop the session! Stop the session! [[Live and repeat Senator Airola's protests.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, I'm calling you back to order. I call on you to shut up or move away from this House. AIROLA (M5S). Use double standards! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, I invite you to leave the Chamber. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). He was supposed to talk at the end of his session! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, this issue is not on the agenda of this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I will only give the floor to the group leaders who are asking me to speak on this issue, because there is no debate on an issue that is on the agenda of the Presidency Council. I would therefore ask the group leaders if they wish to speak on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u18	AIROLA (M5S). But the Democratic Party always talks! Spousetti spoke before, now Zanda speaks too! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, I invite you to shut up or move away from this House. ZANDA (PD). Madam President, Senator Sposetti has taken the floor personally; he has not spoken on behalf of the Democratic Group. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The Democratic Party Group believes that the rules laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Senate should be observed in absolute terms and that the matters assigned to the Presidency Council should be dealt with in the right place and not in the Senate Chamber. Thank you. DI MAY (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Shut up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Well, since there are no group leaders who mean... [[Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u20	Senator Marton, the subject is not on the agenda. If there are any group leaders who wish to speak, I will give the floor, otherwise we will move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u21	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). No! No! COLLUCCI (AP (NCD-UDC)). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Colucci, I'm sorry, or your group leader intends to intervene... [[Comments of Senator Sacconi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u22	Senator Marton, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u23	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, last week I tried to speak on Italicum and you took the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me for now... [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] Senator Santangelo! MARTON (M5S). Go on! SANTANGELO (M5S). Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, calm down. Please, Senator Marton. MARTON (M5S). President, please don't interrupt me. He always does this thing. He always interrupts. I'm asking you for the courtesy of listening for once. Last week he took my word off while I was trying to talk about the Italicum as Leader of the 5 Star Movement. Today it allowed a senator, not a leader, to speak at the beginning of the sitting, with the full Chamber, on a subject not on the agenda. You have the faculty, but it seems to me to be an odd treatment compared to the Groups. I have heard in this House talk about criminals who do not want to give up their vitality. So, either we defend the criminals and we put ourselves at the same level, or we let the Presidency Council do its job and its mandate. I urge you, Mr President, to stick to the Rules of Procedure and no longer give the floor at the beginning of the sitting to anyone who asks for it. I call on you to treat all leaders equally and not to deal with such issues as crime, because this is about taking away the privileges that criminals have enjoyed over pensioners who have been deprived of their pensions. It's time to get this over with! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). You'll be the thugs!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u26	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, apart from the fact that you have given the floor to Senator Sposetti, I think it is right that he should at least allow him to conclude his speech. I am not your Holding Company and I am sorry that the Holding Company of the Group to which Senator Sposetti belongs did not consider it appropriate that, at least, it should conclude its intervention. I say this from a point of view of order. MARTON (M5S). Why didn't you do it last week? ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). It is an ancient habit in this Parliament, in this House, to speak when one has the right to speak and not to interrupt those who are speaking. So, Mr President, I believe that it is useful and necessary, for our order of business, that Senator Sposetti should be placed in a position to conclude, quickly, but to conclude. As far as we are concerned, I have asked for the floor to allow President Palma to speak in my place, because he will speak more appropriately on the subject which is not on this morning's agenda and which you have allowed to be discussed. So if you don't think you should have Senator Sposetti finish, I would ask you to give Senator Palma the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is On behalf of the Group, he asked Senator Colucci to intervene. It is only one speech on behalf of the Group, because it is not a subject on which a debate is opened. [[Comments]] Senator Colucci, on behalf of your Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u27	Madam President, in my experience, having held the task of quaestor in the House for some legislation, I would like to point out some aspects which concern the rules governing the life allowance, which today is no longer a vital allowance for certain measures taken both in this area of Parliament and in the other. I want to say to the friends of the 5 Star Movement, whose interventions I have always followed with great attention and with great interest, that you need to know some things to give judgments with the utmost objectivity. The subject of which Senator Sposetti has spoken has been reformed several times, until the abolition of the institution of vitality (because this must also be pointed out) with a resolution taken on January 1, 2012. Instead of the life benefit, you will now be treated as a social security benefit for Members and Senators. It is understood that it concerns the future, but in any case a resolution has been taken. As far as the current situation is concerned, however, there have been statements by senior officials of the State. In the general order, article 28, paragraph 2, number 5, of the penal code provides....
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u28	Senator Colucci, I will let you speak, but precisely because you have so much experience, I would like to remind you that this issue is not the subject of debate in this House. Otherwise, of course, a wider debate should be opened. I would ask you, therefore, to respect our rules, which you know much better than we do, given your long parliamentary experience as a Commissioner.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u29	Madam President, I welcome your invitation. Since there are constitutional terms which lay down certain rules concerning the function of the Member of Parliament, the vitality allowance and all the decisions taken by the two branches of Parliament, I just want to invite my friends, my colleagues, of the Presidency Council to look into these aspects, partly because there are different positions, including legal ones. I believe, however, that we must also give an objective judgment on the issues, and not take advantage of the particular moment to propose initiatives that can create harm, not only to people, but also to the institutions. There have also been judgments, Madam President, accepted by this branch of Parliament, the Government and the various groups. Then, however, having given the Constitutional Court a different opinion, we see that the state must now deepen what has been taken away from those concerned. If there are specific responsibilities, then those who take positions outside the constitutional aspects are directly responsible for the conduct they take. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]] Otherwise, everyone in the morning can get up, take initiatives and then pay will always be the community. Because that too, ladies and gentlemen, is what this is all about! [[Comments from Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u30	Senator Colucci, finishes your speech by addressing the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u31	COLLUCCI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I will stick to what you have said. As far as I'm concerned, I thought I'd make my contribution. You prevent me, as the regulations prevent me, and so I end by thanking you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is the Presidency that thanks you for your understanding, Senator Colucci.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u33	He has the right to do so, having been delegated by President Romani.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u34	I would ask you, however, to do the same to Senator Colucci, because this matter is not the subject of discussion. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to take your word for it. So, please stick to Senator Colucci's behavior. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, to tell the truth, I find it unusual that a debate cannot be opened in the Senate Chamber which, when reading today's newspapers, is widely open in the media. I say immediately, out of peace of mind, that I have no intention of entering into the substance of the political decision which the Presidency Council will shortly adopt. It is a political decision on which the members of my Group who are members of the Presidency Council will decide according to their will at the appropriate headquarters. Why did we ask to intervene? Because we believe that, in such a sensitive matter, there is a need to adopt a measure that is not only propaganda and demagogic, but also close to an electoral campaign, but that is destined to resist the inevitable legal attacks that those who will not benefit from it will bring. This is the only reason for our intervention: to try to make everyone understand - if I can explain myself in the proper sense - what are the harshness that accompany this measure and in what terms and in what ways such harshness is destined to frustrate the effects of the measure itself. I say this because otherwise we will fill our mouths with the achievement of a goal that, however, is destined to be fictitious, valid for a short time, inevitably destined to fall. It is for this reason, Madam President, that, after reading the newspapers, I hope that in the measure to be adopted, the emotional part being the logical presupposition of the device (which without an emotional part is destined to die), a reasoning has been made, for example, on the legal nature of the vitality, and, because of this legal nature, the way has been chosen to be able to attack the vitality itself. In other words, I hope that it has been said, contrary to what I read about the canopy that each of us receives, that the contribution that we pay monthly is not a withholding pension. It is necessary to state this, Madam President, Senators, because, if this argument were not to be overcome, it would be inevitable that the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 3 of 1966, which, in declaring the unconstitutionality of Article 28, second paragraph, No 5, of the Criminal Code (which specifically provided for the withdrawal of pensions in the event of certain convictions), laid down its constitutional illegitimacy. I therefore hope that in the explanatory statement of that measure it is also stated that this vitality is not even a benefit linked to an activity carried out in the public interest, likewise, for example - it is recalled in the aforementioned judgment No 3 of 1966 - to the war pension. In fact, if this were not to be done, the constitutional case law laid down in Judgment No 113 of 1968, which, in fact, states the unconstitutional nature of the withdrawal of the pensions of war, therefore not anchored to the income of work, in the event of a conviction, would apply. I hope, Madam President, that the explanatory statement says that it is not an insurance contract because indeed, if it were, I wonder in what terms and in what ways a sentence could affect a relationship whose nature is absolutely private and however, if it were to affect, it would be odd compared to all other insurance contracts. I hope that the offices have worked on this, as always, and have made their authoritative contribution to the decision of the Presidency Council. I have read the newspapers, Madam President, like all of us, and very briefly, always with the aim that I represented at the beginning of my speech, allow me to make a few remarks. We are talking about a very sensitive point and I do not intend to oppose the decision. I mean, as far as I can, to make a contribution to that decision being held over time. So, Madam President...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u35	Senator Palma, I call you back to the fact that the newspapers are not a source and we do not have a text under discussion today. So, I appreciate your arguments, but a general discussion is not open. I would only ask you to comply with these criteria. After that, do it yourself; since he speaks for the Group he is free to do what he believes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u36	Madam President, I adhere to these criteria. Certainly yesterday and today, watching and listening to television and reading the newspapers, I had the impression that in that measure not yet decided and perhaps not yet written, of which however the newspapers have tracked, there are points that objectively, senators gentlemen - but I address mainly to the senators of the 5 Star Movement - really leave perplexed. The first point: what is, legally, the loss of vitality? Is it an ancillary penalty, as the second paragraph of Article 28 (5) of the Criminal Code stated, or is it a criminal effect of the conviction, as the European Court of Human Rights states, in a consistent case-law? In fact, if this were to be the case, it is inevitable to reason, as well as there is a trace in many opinions, on the reservation of law that assists, pursuant to Article 25 of the Constitution, the need to introduce ancillary penalties and criminal effects of the condemnation by law and not by other measures. Whether it is a criminal effect or an ancillary penalty, it is inferred, always reading the newspapers, from what appears to be the future decision, that is, the impact of rehabilitation on the regaining of vitality, therefore on the failure of this penalty, whether it be ancillary or a criminal effect. Consequently, if this is written in it, I believe that the measure of the Presidency Council cannot be sufficient and if it had the presumption of having to regulate the matter, it would inevitably have to fall under the werenaia of the Constitutional Court, which we do not want for the very decency of the Senate. Again, excuse me, but with the inclusion of rehabilitation, which also has an important legal meaning, which, in accordance with Article 179 of the Criminal Code, can be obtained in the three years following the end of the execution of the sentence, do you think that this is an effective measure, that can restore the image of legality and honesty to Parliament or not that it is just a palliative, just a mockery? Do you know how many people in this House have been convicted in the past of even very serious crimes, and how many of them are being rehabilitated today and will therefore not be affected by this measure? Do you know or not? And why do you lend yourself to this palliative of propagandistic character? [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u37	Please conclude, Senator Palma.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u38	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I am beginning to conclude quickly, Madam President. And again, as Senator Sposetti recalled, if two individuals, A and B, settle for the same identical crime and A's relatives have the fortune that A dies, while B's relatives have the misfortune that B stays alive, you explain to me what the legal sense is, given the total identity of the positions of A and B, which allows the retirement of survivors to the relatives of A and not the relatives of B? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator finish, please. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I shall conclude, Madam President. And again, do you know that Article 445 of the Code of Criminal Procedure equates the sentence of plea with the sentence of conviction, unless the law provides otherwise? Can you explain to me what is the meaning of a provision, in the light of Article 445 that allows not to go this way to those who have negotiated a sentence perhaps four years of imprisonment, while imposing this road on those who have been sentenced, for example, to two years and six months of imprisonment, that is to say for a certainly less serious crime? Do you want to make this provision? Do it, but according to the law. I have read that as many as 335,000 Italians, or about 0.5 percent of the population, have asked for this. But this is not enough to overcome the constitutional legal system that assists, not the parliamentarians, but all the citizens. If then you really want to make a provision that is not propaganda, demagogic and in some ways electoralistic, do it, but in full respect of the law and not with all those hypocrisies that, to read the newspapers, crowd it. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Buemi, Mussini and Rossi Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u40	Senator Barani, you have the floor. I would also like to reiterate your call for a debate not to be held on the substance of an act which is not on the agenda for the proceedings of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u41	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Madam President, I will be at the Presidency Council and I will speak on the subject there. Senator Sposetti has just told us something disturbing, namely that a state-mafia-political negotiation is taking place, and he also made an example of his vote, of the secret vote he wanted to express. He told us that the President of the Senate was biased. Comparing the situation to the football match that took place last night between Barcelona and Bayern Monaco, Senator Sposetti is as if he had told us that the referee Rizzoli put the ball in Messi's hand to score goals. He told us that the President of the Senate is not third; he told us that the President of the Senate agreed with the Leader of the Democratic Party for this resolution and that they did it together. To confirm this, there is an official statement from the Senate that confirmed this negotiation between one party and the President of the Senate. In this way the President of the Senate is an issue in this House, because he is no longer a third figure, but a figure whose third being, his being a guarantor, his being the second office of the State must be debated; that is what is disturbing, Madam President, is what must make us think. In the same way, it must make us reflect on the fact that when one gives himself to politics after having made a career even important and having acquired a pension, perhaps as a magistrate, if he is sentenced he maintains the pension, while to those who have been representative of the people for forty years, because elected by the people, and has incurred a crime even political, the pension is cancelled. Madam President, at two o'clock: whether we are in democracy and we have a Constitution, whether you take away your pension from both of us - and I am against it - or you leave it to both of us. Why must one have parachute after doing "for sport" political activity, because first he has occupied a place of prestige and then maybe he has not behaved even as an impartial will, while instead who has always served his people has a different treatment? This is populism and false demagogy. In fact, there are two truths: there is the true truth and the procedural truth, which could be political. Madam President, today in the Presidency Council I will have the record that anyone who votes in favour of that resolution that has already been prepared, has already arrived at all the leaders... [[Live Senator Airola's comments.]] Madam President, I have already asked for a hair test. I submit... [[Live comments from Senators Airola and Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u42	Senator Barani, finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u43	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). That being said, I'll take first, but come with me to take the exam. [[Protests of Senators Airola and Santangelo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u44	Senator Barani, finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u45	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MPA, NPSI, PPI)). Madam President, I just want to record that anyone who will cause damage to this Senate, with the vote, will have to answer personally with their own assets: it is time to stop making demagogy with other people's money! They respond to it personally and take responsibility... [[Live Senator Airola's comments.]] But come and take the hair test with me! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barani! Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). President! [[Senator Airola's protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u46	Senator Airola, I invite you to be silent and respect Senator Barani, who is finishing his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u47	AIROLA (M5S). You've tired us: we're tired, President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you're tired, go get some rest. AIROLA (M5S). She lends herself to clowns! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm calling you back to order, Senator Airola! [[Vivacious protests by Senators Santangelo and Airola]] AIROLA (M5S). We call you to order! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barani, finish your speech, please! Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). I conclude, but here there is danger to personal safety, because these are really fierce. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] AIROLA (M5S). Go to the D.A., asshole! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bottici, carry out his duties as Quaestor, bringing his colleagues back to calm. Mr Lezzi (M5S). Lanzillotta, preside over the Assembly! AIROLA (M5S). Enough of this bullshit! Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). I shall conclude, Madam President. You see who we are facing and how we must endure this attack on democracy... SANTANGELO (M5S). Stop! (Senator Santangelo shows a copy of today's agenda.) Mr Lezzi (M5S). But what democracy? Are you working today or not? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, I invite you to be quiet. Mr Lezzi (M5S). I would like to comment on the order of business. Are you working today or not? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I already called you back this morning. Senator Barani, have you finished your speech? SANTANGELO (M5S). Sit down! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish your speech, Senator Barani. I give you the floor, but if you do not finish your speech, I consider it to be over. Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). I speak on behalf of the Group, because yesterday President Ferrara was heard: yesterday the President of the Senate called all the Leaders, because he is really a party referee. It's your resolution and you want to get it approved at all costs. I will have the request recorded that, if he is indicted, because sooner or later there will be a Senate that will evaluate the behaviour of its President, lose also his pension as magistrate, otherwise it is easy to demagogy with the money of others, especially of Italians. [[Live Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u48	This debate is over.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u50	Senator Malan, a representative of your group has already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u51	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). I ask you to speak on a point of order. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, as we do in these cases, one could hypocritically say that I would not want a precedent to be created. In fact, a precedent has already been created: Senator Sposetti was speaking and as some senators decided to scream and scream at him, he was prevented from speaking. SANTANGELO (M5S). Names! Mr Lezzi (M5S). We want to work, Malan! You've been chatting with Italian money for an hour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, let Senator Malan speak. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, I'm also talking about you, positively. At this point we assume that, when, for example, Minister Boschi takes the floor for the usual and now pragmatic imposition of the question of trust and colleagues of the 5 Star Movement - together with others - shout much more than they have done today with regard to Sposetti, we should take the floor to Minister Boschi, as you have taken it from Senator Sposetti. Secondly, I have heard - and we have all heard them all - words which are undoubtedly insulting: they were certainly not political assessments. When, not long ago, the Rules of Procedure of the Senate were taken seriously - then we know that various things have happened - these expressions were not tolerated, not because we did not like them or because they were unpathetic, but because this established the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Buemi and Formigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u52	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1328.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating today marks an important step forward. For the agricultural world, bill No 1328 has become, in the jargon of the experts, the "linked agriculture" and in the expectations and opinions of those who follow agriculture is a kind of framework law that, although having had, at first time of implementation of the bill, free field, presents here an important part of structural changes that this sector absolutely needs to reverse the course and create the conditions to exploit all the potential it possesses. The government of the Italian agricultural sector, more than others, suffers from fragmentation, excessive bureaucratic heaviness and an outdated sectoral approach. For those of me who have worked in the sector, have lived closely and know directly the complexity and complications of the procedures of the agricultural sector it is even more evident that the intricate system of subjects and competences that overlap become a strong obstacle to a real innovation of agriculture that instead would require flexibility, rapid decision-making and an increasingly integrated approach between sectors. Overall, the legislative structure of the sector that suffers from too much dispersal of rules, too much complication in applying them and of biblical times in order to arrive at the end of a procedure, needs to be reset. Therefore, a mandate is given to the Government for an organic review of the legislation, as stated in Article 5 of the provision that identifies precise times (eight months after the entry into force of the provision) to draft an agricultural code that harmonizes the different regulatory levels. I hope that this revision will be done with absolute rigour in order to prevent the repetition of the experience, which those who work in the agricultural sector remember well, of an agricultural code of some ministers ago that, with clear media aims, presented a "cut and paste" so full of errors that it had to withdraw it immediately and put it back in the drawer because the damage would have been much greater than the utility. There's no media or propaganda here. There is a hard review work that becomes really useful if it is faced with the employment of a team with high-level skills, which I imagine is what the ministry will do right from the start. The measure under consideration therefore goes from simplifying procedures to rationalising public instruments, to important measures for increasing competitiveness and, above all, finally, to a package of measures and actions relating to fisheries and aquaculture. The latter is an important novelty. A structural approach was also needed in this area. It was time to think of a reordering of the complex regulatory discipline of fishing. In addition, the establishment of the one-stop shop for aquaculture, the introduction of specific simplifications, the extension of facilities such as zero-rate loans extended to fish farms give this sector absolutely indispensable attention and centrality. It is also important to decriminalise the penalties for sub-cutting fishing. We are in a moment of transition, no doubt. Now we have to decide whether we want to seize this opportunity, right now when the world has turned the spotlight on us with the Expo dedicated to food and the agro-food sector, to rethink the role of young farmers in contemporary society. To engage in agriculture today means to grow in managerial capacity, to integrate with others to move in business systems and not individually, to acquire modern technologies and new skills. It means being constantly updated, knowing in real time the possibilities of European aid; for this reason it is important that Article 13 should facilitate participation in aid programmes by providing public administrations with tools to provide free information and assistance to facilitate the use of European aid. I believe that the new generation of entrepreneurs that is growing will have to be increasingly capable of investing and enhancing Italian distinctiveness and, at the same time, being increasingly European companies in the approach, with a uniformity of rules, vision and common practices. Here, too, after the competitiveness bill, there are themes related to generational change. Let's think of the new tools to promote processes of economic and management support for young people in the agricultural enterprise activity - Article 6 - with the possibility of a support society for agricultural lands that see an important intergenerational transition, to keep together tradition, experience and innovation, to facilitate the encounter between those who are in physiological exit from the agricultural sector and those who instead want to access it. In fact, objectives such as the development of rural areas, the adoption of high-quality food, an eco-sustainable approach require, in addition to incentive policies, also a strong policy in favour of human resources, policies in favour of revitalising agricultural activity carried out by young energies. It will not be possible to open up a new phase of agriculture if this does not become definitely, overpoweringly a world for young people Finally, I would like to stress what seems to be a small intervention concerning simplification in the oil sector, but that I also live closely in my own territory and for this reason I have tabled specific amendments. This is the case: small producers, those who produce for self-consumption, i.e. whose production does not exceed 250 kilograms of oil per marketing year, are exempted from holding the business file. Just as a fire regulation proportionate to small realities applies, similarly it should be expected for those who use olive oil deposits with a capacity of not more than 6 cubic metres. They are common sense interventions, which not only tend to simplify bureaucracy, but also intend to enhance small realities, often precious garrisons of the most marginal territories, in some cases real example of heroic agriculture, as in my region of origin, Liguria. These are activities and behaviors that must be supported, not through general assistance, but with support aimed also at small or micro activities, those that while producing keep a territory alive, maintain it, are part of a collective challenge in which to win not only small enterprises but the whole community. I should like to conclude by saying that I am glad that today this House can adopt a measure which will make progress on the whole agricultural system. I do not belong to those who, despite the obvious positivity of this normative passage, in the game of the parties, hold on the complaints, demagogies or common places loaded with many inaccuracies. [[Ironic applause from Senator Donno]] It has been a serious and responsible work done in the Commission, and so allow me to thank my colleagues in the Commission, starting with President Formigoni, and I would like to thank Mr Olivero, who has followed this work step by step, making an important contribution to the final definition of the current legislative system. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Formigoni. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u54	She is registered to speak Senator Valentini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today I want to focus my speech on fisheries, which is sometimes a bit marginalized by our political debates and confrontation in our country; bearing in mind that three-quarters of Italy faces the sea, an economic policy and a strategy in this respect would be important and important. The text that comes before the Assembly is significantly modified compared to that presented by the Government, even in February last year. The Committee on Agriculture has done a great deal of work and I would like to thank Mr Formigoni, my colleagues from the Commission, the Vice President and Mr Olivero, who followed the work. In this year the Government has been of great collaboration and of great listening and availability. Together, for a year now, we have been able to build such a modified text, in which fishing becomes as central an economic asset as agriculture in our country, after years and decades of abandonment in this direction. A number of rules have been removed as a result of their introduction into other measures and new ones have been introduced to strengthen the provisions on fisheries and production sectors, recognising their strategic value. The text is consistent with the new Common European Fisheries Policy and the establishment of the new European Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund, which is recognised for the first time in this text, with the ambition of extending an important part of the legislation for the agricultural sectors to the fishing industry. More generally in the text, structural tools are offered to relaunch the potential for the development of fisheries by entering into a wider context, aimed at supporting the strategic growth of a sector such as the economy of the sea, absolutely decisive for the future of our country in all its areas (environmental, tourist, cultural, commercial and entrepreneurial). According to the last data of CENSIS, the fish supply chain in Italy generates 4.4 billion euros of turnover, contributing to 15% of the GDP produced from the marine activities, like the shipbuilding ship. With about 13,000 boats, the Italian professional fishing sector still boasts, after Spain, the second fleet of the European Union with the largest number of active fishermen (about 24,500 people), but today there is a moment of great disorientation and suffering due to many factors. Not surprisingly, 7,000 jobs have been lost in the last decade, while business profitability has fallen by 31% and production costs have increased by up to 240 percent. Fishing and aquaculture in Italy require a great deal of attention from Parliament and the Government. The aim of the rules is to relaunch the sector. In particular, fishing needs to be supported and accompanied - and we have done so - in a process of tidying up the marketing and dynamisation phases of the market's production processes. Fish farmers and operators have all been waiting too long for more structural legislative action to extend the process of administrative simplification and concrete protection of employment in part already planned for a long time in the agricultural sector. The system therefore contains criteria and principles which are largely the result of this work. Article 5, for example, delegates the Government to the reorganization and simplification of the regulations on agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture; for the first time, agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture are linked together, through the collection of a unified code of agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture: this is the first time that this happens in our country. Measures financed in support of fisheries and aquaculture shall be introduced in Article 14. In particular, it is envisaged that the Institute for the Development of Food and Agriculture will facilitate financial interventions under facilitated conditions in companies which are also involved in the processing and marketing of fishery products. There are therefore no more interventions aimed solely at seafarers and fishermen, as they used to be. There are interventions to support social fishing and the development of products from the short fish supply chain. The device also contains rules for consumer protection that are integrated, for the first time, with those already provided for in European legislation on traceability of the fish product and the use of standard boxes. First of all, the rules on the single register of controls against enterprises also apply to fisheries and aquaculture undertakings. Overall, measures are also aimed at facilitating administrative simplification in this area to reduce administrative time and costs for the start-up and management of activities. For the first time in our country the one-stop shop for fishing is established at the Ministry of Agriculture with functions of coordination, guidance and support to regional branches. It is, therefore, a single instrument that dictates the guidelines in all our regions. Finally, the text that we will approve achieves greater uniformity with the European provisions on infringements, sanctions and ancillary penalties for fishing infringements. These are all important and significant structural measures after decades of abandonment. Everything we are going to vote on today is strongly and fully intertwined with the content of the motion tabled in April 2014 on the subject of blue growth, signed by myself and 26 colleagues from all political forces, but it has never been discussed and, therefore, I ask the Presidency to be able to put it on the agenda. It is necessary to work so that, accepting the indications of the European Parliament, Italy too can equip itself with a strategy for an integrated policy of the marine space, the management of the coasts, the marine tourism, the harbour system, the blue energy, the development of research and innovation tied to blue biotechnology. The motion commits the Government to prepare a concrete national strategy for the coordination of sectoral policies in the different sectors of the sea economy, devoting particular attention to research and innovation. Recognizing the role of the economy of the sea as an engine of growth and employment, as a resource of talent and professionalism, as a constant stimulus to scientific and technical innovation, the motion invited and invited the Government to support the development of the key sectors identified by the European Commission in this field, devoting particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises, which constitute a fundamental productive component of the entire maritime sector. Marineneries can become one of the cornerstones of our economic development and a significant growth engine for our country. I thank you for the willingness of the Government, of the colleagues of the Agriculture Commission and of all because I believe that together we have managed, for the first time, to address the merits of these issues and to ensure that the Government and the Agriculture Commission follow a common path. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Formigoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u56	Senator Casaletto is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u57	Madam President, the agri-food sector is an essential part of quality Made in Italy. Its development on domestic and international markets is crucial for the country's growth. The agricultural world needs important and structural measures. First of all, I would like to mention the importance of Italian agriculture and agri-food: 2 million companies (9 percent of Italian GDP and 14% also considered the input); 3.2 million workers in the supply chain, representing 14% of Italian employees and more than 25 billion euros of taxes. The tax issue of Italian agriculture always emerges and above all to collect new resources, but we must consider the needs of companies. Stop and go decisions dramatically increase uncertainty, as is happening with the incredible story of the IMU. We need a reliable framework that considers agriculture to be an economic activity with a tax system that cannot be called into question whenever the need arises. We are lagging behind with the implementation of the reform of the common agricultural policy towards 2020. After the first ministerial decree of November, we are calling into question guidelines and decisions already taken at the time and we have not yet made any essential choices. The development of rural development plans is lagging behind. For the approvals of the first floors you will have to wait at least June. Farms cannot wait beyond essential measures for the management of their holdings. Particular attention should be paid to national programmes, for which the way in which they operate has not yet been clarified, but which touch on key aspects of business life, starting with risk management and income stabilization measures. The decrees for the recognition of producer organisations and interbranch bodies are firm, which could re-launch, even from a network perspective, the aggregation of the product and the integration of the supply chain. We need to speed up processes, including parliamentary processes, in order to quickly establish a comprehensive legal framework in this fundamental area. Environmental and health issues are becoming increasingly crucial for our businesses, for their impact on agricultural activities. From nitrate standards to emission standards, to all prescriptive rules for the protection of the ecosystem and the landscape, there are also those on animal welfare and animal health management. The result is an increasingly complex business management with serious risks to competitiveness. There is a need for drastic simplification and, in any case, a clear step towards implementing standards, often of European origin, which consider their possible impact on production processes. The production of energy from renewable sources has been a reality for some years now. Farmers are directly engaged in this very important form of green economy that helps to diversify their activities, to increase incomes and, above all, to meet the challenges of the millennium. However, legislation governing activities and incentives has not always been linear, causing inconvenience and uncertainty to operators, sometimes chasing false myths that see renewable energy as a threat rather than an opportunity. We must continue without hesitation and without changing the framework of the rules. Specific measures are needed in agriculture: from the management of the integration fund and solidarity contracts to the deburocratisation of seasonal and short-term contracts, to a significant and concrete reduction in the tax wedge on agricultural work in a totally unjustified way, especially in certain areas. Agriculture is essential for the government of the territory and the recent episodes, even dramatic, of hydrogeological failure are proving this. Agricultural production activities must be encouraged as they preserve the soil and help to manage the resources of the ecosystem, such as water, precisely avoiding the phenomena of degradation. More agricultural policy is needed in order to have more protection of the territory, the landscape and the environment. The agricultural use of the soil must be protected, now all too vile, with an effective regulation that contrasts its growing and excessive consumption (see the disaster of Expo 2015 and all the exaggerated infrastructural works that proliferate eating recklessly and inexorably agricultural soil). The markets of many products are in crisis: fruit and vegetables, livestock production, but also oil and wine. They suffer the imbalances of a market that oscillates between productive problems (also linked to climatic and phytopathic developments) and declines in domestic consumption. It is necessary to revive consumption, both internally and externally, and to strengthen the supply chains from land to table. The sector's good employment performance, despite the continuing state of crisis, demonstrates the dynamism and flexibility of agriculture; at the moment, however, the agricultural world needs important and structural measures for its growth and this bill finally goes in this direction. However, my opinion is positive about the measure, which brings the provisions on simplification, rationalisation and competitiveness of the agricultural, agri-food and fisheries sector and constitutes a significant contribution for the whole sector that aims at the growth of the country and the development of employment in Italy. The link includes rules on the simplification of the system of controls in the agricultural sector and also introduces the arrangements for the exchange of information between law enforcement authorities and inspection data control bodies. It also regulates the system of health authorisations in line with the guidelines adopted with the 2010 agreement at the State-Regions Conference. Finally, the problem of the defence of Made in Italy, of the tax credit, aimed at promoting the commercial penetration of quality agricultural or agri-food products outside the national territory, as well as the question of the introduction of a private and optional identification mark for agricultural production, is dealt with in an organic way through economically rewarding provisions. It should also be stressed that this regulatory measure gives good support to social agriculture and to the development of products from short supply chains. The text commits the public institutions which manage school and hospital canteens to provide, in invitations to tender for the relevant supply services, priority criteria for the inclusion of agri-food products from social agriculture operators, as well as zero kilometre agricultural and food products from short supply chains, and agricultural and food products with reduced environmental and quality impact. In order to really renew the agri-food market, it is necessary, for example, to support and accompany the growth of solidarity buying groups, which for consumers can become a benchmark and quality assurance. The reordering of risk management instruments in agriculture and market regulation are central points of the link, as the problem arises of transposing the entire part of the new CAP programming on risk management, both against natural adversity and against market crises. It will be important to prevent what has already happened in other areas, where the implementing decrees of a legal instrument have waited even three or more years before being launched, thus frustrating the adoption of an appropriate measure. This is an important rule, which we hope will apply as soon as possible, because farmers can no longer wait. It is beyond any doubt that, if we are to follow up support policies for youth entrepreneurship, we need to put a firm and appropriate hand in accessing credit for farmers. In recent years one of the sectors that has shown all its fragility and impossibility to support the sector is precisely the credit sector. It is necessary to find the right forms of support that allow an entrepreneur to access the appropriate financial instruments to support his company. The sharp and general decline in lending rates clearly explains the phenomenon of farmers' disaffection towards credit institutions. With regard to the provisions of the colleague, in my view, it would have been appropriate for the 15-year period for the repayment of funding to young entrepreneurs to be increased to at least 20 years, especially in the case of major and structural measures, even if not for real estate and land, as this would in any case be an increase in assets and, as such, to increase the production capacity and hence the solidity of the farm. We share the logic of double binary labelling, which states that products are subject to the provisions laid down by European and national legislation on labelling and information on food to consumers; a very topical issue, which is linked to the concept of market transparency and adds to the abolition of state secrecy for companies using foreign ingredients. The measure in question also concerns the production of extra virgin olive oil, a product where Italy stands out for its quality and excellence all over the world. This is a success of the commitment of our farmers, unfortunately often abandoned, of the quality of our healthy farms and of the culture of respect for the territories, values that no globalization will ever be able to cancel. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u58	Senator Dalla Tor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, I would like to speak today on a number of points concerning draft law No 1328 laying down provisions on the simplification, rationalization and competitiveness of the agricultural, agri-food and fisheries sectors and which, it should be recalled, was presented by the Government on 21 February 2014 as linked to the public finance manoeuvre during the Letta Government. First of all, I would like to thank the 9th Permanent Committee on Agriculture and Food Production, which has carried out not only an important but particularly careful work on the text of the draft law and which has proposed a text in many decisive points different from what had been presented by the Government. I would also like to remind you that this has been the result of serious and thorough work by the Members of the Commission, whom I thank, and by the President of the Commission, as well as the rapporteur, Mr Formigoni, also thanks to a large number of informal hearings held at the Commission itself. I do not think it is necessary to recall or reiterate that agriculture represents and must represent in the future a sector that must necessarily return to being a key and strategic sector of the Italian economy, and indeed it would be a good thing that its contribution to the national economy was increased as much as possible. For these reasons, I believe that the measure under discussion is extremely important, although it is not possible to consider the work of the institutions as exhausted in order to encourage and encourage a more courageous development of this sector, which has for too long now been left at times in the "baby of itself." Without being able to explain in detail all the measures of the measure, let me at least remind you quickly of some of the contents, in order to take account of the importance of the issues touched on. One of the measures contained in the measure is certainly aimed at encouraging not only development but also the survival of the agricultural sector itself over time. In fact, incentive measures are envisaged for the generational change in the agricultural sector. There are, in fact, very positive news for young people who want to do business in agriculture. The measure also contains a number of measures which can in various ways encourage the agricultural sector. To name just a few of the most important measures, consider some simplifications in the field of controls and simplifications in the field of anti-fire regulations relating to the deposits of small oil products that also extend to oil. Criminal provisions are also introduced to ensure agri-food safety; for the crime of counterfeiting of geographical indications and designations of origin of agri-food products, the prohibition from the management offices of legal persons and businesses is now foreseen and the publication of judgments is also foreseen. The time limits for the adoption by the public administration and the economic authorities of the measures relating to applications for agricultural activities through the authorised agricultural assistance centres shall be reduced from 180 days to 60 days. As has already been mentioned, a regulation to regulate the forms of support between farmers over 65 years old or pensioners and young people, not owners of agricultural land, aged between 18 and 40 years old, also organised in an associated form, with the aim of gradually shifting the management of agricultural business to young people. Support companies for agricultural land are planned. An Agricultural Land Bank is hereby established. The possibility of the joint recruitment of workers is envisaged: agricultural enterprises, including those formed in cooperative form, or attributable to the same owner or to persons linked to each other by a bond of relative or affinity within the third grade may proceed together with the recruitment of employees for the performance of work benefits at the respective companies. There are provisions to facilitate participation in European aid programmes as well as financial assistance to support agricultural, fisheries and aquaculture enterprises. The Institute for Agri-food Development shall carry out financial operations, on favourable conditions or on market conditions, in companies, both cooperative and profit-making, economically and financially sound, which are involved in the processing and marketing of agricultural, fisheries and aquaculture products. There are also provisions for the support of social fisheries and the development of products from the short agricultural and fish supply chain. However, I would like to draw particular attention here to certain measures which I consider to be important and which were introduced during the examination in the Commission, also thanks to two amendments which I have signed and an amendment tabled with Mr Susta. Starting from the latter, I would like to remind you that in Article 1 (6) there is a simplification measure which intervenes on the decree of the President of the Republic No 437 of 19 October 2000, which contains the regulation laying down detailed rules for the identification and registration of bovine animals. With the amendments introduced in the Commission, it is established that bovine animals, where intended for national marketing only, are exempted from the obligation to accompany the passport, as provided for in Article 6 of Regulation of the European Union No 1760 of 2000 on the identification and registration of bovine animals, the national computerised database being considered fully operational by the Commission. Consequently, the holder is now responsible for keeping the passports of animals only if they are intended for intra-Community trade. This is a bureaucratic simplification which can increase trade in cattle, at least at national level. Secondly, I would like to highlight paragraph 5 of Article 1, which was introduced by an amendment I tabled. The provision provides that it is possible to set up a protection consortium to ensure full integration with the rules on geographical indications of agri-food products and wines, laid down at national level in accordance with Community regulations on PDO and PGI, for each geographical indication contained in the 2008 Regulation of the European Community and in the 2014 Regulation of the European Parliament on the definition, designation, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications. The consortium can also be recognised by the Ministry of Agricultural Policies. In this way it is possible to establish for each geographical indication provided for in the Regulation on spirit drinks, a consortium of protection recognized by the same Ministry, as already provided for the PDO and PGI products of the agri-food and wine field. The reason for such a provision is that Regulation EC 110/2008, which regulates spirit drinks, provides for certain geographical indications which are quite similar to the PGIs and PDOs of the agri-food and wine sector, which have been regulated by the respective Community regulations for many years. However, while in the field of agri-food and wine products recognized under these regulations there is, at national level, a special legislation that delegates the Ministry to recognize special associations of protection, in the field of spirit drinks, instead, there is a similar legislation, despite Italy's boasting different and prestigious geographical indications: grappa (who speaks to you is Veneto, therefore you can understand), the Italian brandy, but also the liqueur of lemon of Sorrento and the liqueur of lemon of Amalfi, the genepì of Piedmont and the Valle d'Aosta, just to name a few. At present, therefore, producer groups are unable to be recognised and to carry out the necessary regulatory, protection and exploitation of certain products typical of Made in Italy. Thirdly and last, I would like to point out paragraph 2 of Article 4, which provides that, in order to ensure the transparency and speed of administrative procedures relating to the exercise of agricultural activities, in the application to the aforementioned procedures of the rules of the one-stop shop for production activities, referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic n. 160 of 2010, is without prejudice in any case to the application of the most advanced forms of simplification provided for by regional regulations and autonomous provinces. This measure approved the possibility of using the one-stop shop also in the agricultural sector, where it was previously only for the commercial and industrial sectors. There are only three of the many innovations of the measure, but which, among others, make it no longer viable for such vital sectors of the Italian economy and the very life of people, sectors which, however, have been guilty and repeatedly neglected not only by the Italian legislator but also by other public institutions. The time has come to give new impetus and a decisive push, in this case with legislative instruments, to the agricultural, agri-food and fisheries sectors, which represent us so much in the world and which must be able to drive the Italian economy and society towards economic and social recovery, without losing definitively some of the traditions that most characterize our lands and our seas. Today's is, therefore, an extremely important step, not only from the material point of view, for the earliest possible approval of rules that can somehow move the agricultural, agri-food and fisheries sector, but also from the symbolic point of view, since its approval could result in a greater boost of competitiveness to a sector so crucial also for the Expo 2015 in Milan. For these and other reasons, I hope that we will be able to reach an early adoption of the measure both in this House and in the other branch of Parliament. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u60	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u61	Colleagues, the measure under discussion aims to tackle bureaucracy, one of the problems that has weighed down the development and growth of the agricultural sector, in particular small farms. Suffice it to say that, according to the data provided by the unions, an Italian farm to carry out all the red tape imposed spends, on average, two euros per hour of work, 20 euros per day, 600 euros per month, 7,200 euros per year. It should be borne in mind that it takes eight days a month to fill the cards required by central and local government. Basically, 100 days a year. A task that the farmer can hardly carry out alone and, therefore, in 58 percent of cases, is forced to hire a person who carries out such activity and for the remaining 42 percent turns to an outside professional, with easily imaginable costs. Moreover, bureaucracy is estimated to cost the entire Italian system of small and medium-sized enterprises EUR 26.5 billion per year. Among the most industrialized countries, only Italy has this negative record. A monster with a thousand tentacles that also stifles agriculture, which pays a very salty bill: about four billion euros a year. There are few figures, but they clearly describe how bureaucracy itself is causing problems that are not indifferent to agriculture which slow down its progress. The draft law No 1328, like the other measures, obviously has a correct title, right, which apparently tackles the problem with new provisions for simplification, rationalization and agricultural competitiveness of the agricultural, agri-food and fisheries sectors. Too bad that the measure on the substance is a continuous postponement to other implementing measures that who knows if they will see application. In some cases, delegations are offered in white, as for the reordering, the abolition and the reduction of the agencies supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry policies and for the reordering of technical assistance to the breeders. For commercial purposes, the provisions concerning interventions for the development of Made in Italy abroad in the form of a tax credit are interesting. We therefore hope that the implementing decrees provided for here too will not exceed 60 days to be issued. Otherwise, more than a simplification measure, it could become a rule for the complication of simple business: in fact, simplification with bureaucratization is expected. We will wait to see if, as is often the case, our constructive criticisms, almost never received by your majority, are merely bitter opposition or helpful advice for the country, as we of the 5 Star Movement believe. Agriculture contains in itself a circle as large as the whole world, its function is very important, just think that without it of course there would be no life. For these fundamental reasons, we must protect the agricultural sector but above all we must meet it, in particular protect all Italian farmers who are suffering more than others at this time the economic crisis but despite everything they devote themselves carefully to its development. It would have been appropriate to include among the various provisions of the measure, in addition to measures to improve the logistical aspects of the marketing of agricultural products, promotional actions aimed at the direct sale of products or their processed directly on the farm, including by means of e-commerce. Today a small farm that wants to open its own point of direct sale is forced to confront a lot of different norms and competences really exaggerated: it is a kind of game of goose, that requires patience and time, that the farmer does not always possess. As a Movement, we believe that here there is the real wealth of the country, yes, in small farms, often led by a family: here can be born many economic opportunities. We can create wealth with the construction of direct relationships between the producer and the consumer, in order to guarantee the first an income and the second the flavor, the taste of excellent products of our land which, alas, risk disappearing to make room for cement and intensive cultivations, kept with increasingly mechanical and chemical practices, and therefore not sustainable at all. We need to get out of the logic of large-scale organized distribution, which erodes wealth in the selling price of the product to the farmer and increases the price for the consumer. I would remind you that, on average, the price is being increased by 600 per cent from the producer to the consumer. In addition, the commercial value of the agri-food sector has been 100, 67 per cent goes to the GDO, 26 per cent to marketing and only 16 per cent remains to the agricultural sector. To date in Italy, despite the enormous potential, there are only small numbers that involve direct sales in general, even less through e-commerce, while in other countries of the world (Germany, Denmark and Belgium) already move in this position with excellent results in the diffusion of aggregate forms of purchase, such as that of joint purchasing groups or markets in the square. These are the best news, because with them lives not only the agricultural economy, but the promotion of the territory, with consequent increase of the opportunities also for the agritourism operators or other forms of connected activities like the agricamping, and is favored more the rural tourism and therefore the maintenance of the territory. Sburocratization: facilitate and not hinder. Just to give an example, it is not possible to ask and submit to a farmer to lose hours of work for certain obligations, sometimes substantially unnecessary. On the other hand, it is necessary to stimulate the farmer by direct European or national support measures and without having to force him to various associations to be taken into account. Finally, new cuts in the sector must be avoided. The announcement of an imminent slaughter for farmers does not give serenity and hope to the sector: we know that when there is no serenity and hope, we enter a vicious circuit from which it is very difficult to get out. If the Government confirms the proposals presented in the so-called tax expenditure dossier by the commissioner at the spending review Yoram Goutgeld and the economic consultant Roberto Perotti, it is planned to revise the excise duty on agricultural diesel and cancel the discounts on land transfers to direct farmers and professional agricultural entrepreneurs (only to mention some of the most relevant negativity). By the way, from this the State will be able to recover only amounts not relevant: 331 million in 2016 and 472 million in 2017. Always talking about excise duties in the energy sector, I would like to remind you that a few days ago, with the approval of the DEF, we have reduced excise duties for the great energy workers. Why double standards? Why significantly reduce excise duties for large-scale energy workers? Is it because large industrialists count much more than small farmers? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] All these simple reflections also bring out some questions to which I leave you to answer. Why not really start supporting one of our country's greatest resources? We understand that this vision of ours clearly does not coincide with that of the Government and the majority, expressed at this time in the Expo of Milan with all its ideas of centralization and gigantification, rather than multiplication in the territory of many small works. If we had spent those 17 billion euros, instead of just one work in Milan, distributing them in the territory, to enhance the hundreds of great opportunities and our agricultural and food excellences, we would have created many more jobs. This is essential: the Expo will have numbers that we will have to judge in the end, but those resources would have been better invested and would have created many more jobs, if scattered in the territory. This is one of the many reasons why we contested this work. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u62	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Minister, the draft law before us perhaps beats every record of gestation, reaching the debate of the Assembly fifteen months after its adoption by the Government. It was January 31, 2014 and, curiously, it was presented to the Senate Presidency on February 21, the day before the establishment of the Renzi Government. Just the fact that it was one of the last, if not the last measure of the then Prime Minister Letta, has perhaps caused him to be abandoned by the executive in office. However, it is serious that the bill was linked to the Stability Act for 2014. You understand, colleagues: it is linked to the stability law for 2014. The delay with which it is approved - and only at first reading: I stress this - confirms the lack of attention of this Government, despite the proclamations, to the problems of agriculture. In the meantime, the agricultural world has in fact imposed the IMU on the land, a new asset, and you have done so with yet another voracity, with superficiality and arrogance, confirming that the left to the Government is greedy with taxes. You did so through a messy, schizophrenic and very long process, which began in April 2014 and ended in the Chamber of Deputies only on March 19, that is, a year later. This is one of many examples of Renzi's inefficiency and ineffectiveness. Other than "Italicum": a promise that has been kept, which nobody cares about, let alone farmers! [[Applause from Senators Candiani and Council]] I remember that with the decree-law in the matter of IRPEF, containing the bonus of 80 euros - with which President Renzi, in order to finance the electoral "shot" of the Europeans, had set himself the objective to raise at least 350 million euros from the agricultural sector - you intervened with a tense leg, in a retroactive way, reducing the facilities recognized until then to the sector, imposing the unexpected leap to the owners of the land and causing the mayors, for months, to precipitate into chaos of more than 4,300 municipalities. That is how it is: you have inflicted a further blow on the agricultural sector to fill the greedy coffers of the state. The agricultural IMU - as they have denounced the same associations of category - has followed in fact a short distance the TASI on the rural buildings instrumental to the activity of enterprise (for 40 million euros), the IMU on the housing rural buildings (for 160 million euros), the revaluation of the dominical incomes of the land (for other 50 million euros), the reduction of the facilities on diesel for agriculture (for other 160 million euros). These measures represent an attack on the agricultural sector, to which, between 2012 and 2014 - we are therefore talking about the Governments Monti, Letta and Renzi - an annual tax levy was imposed close to the billion euros, mortal for many companies. Not to mention that in order to finance the 90 million euro reduction in income from the agricultural IMU, compared to the 360 million initially demanded, after battles that saw the North League fight in the front row for the exemption of the tax in the mountain municipalities, the sector was still hit, draining the fund for the killing of the IRAP for seasonal workers. So - I repeat - this bill arrives with guilty delay compared to Expo, whose theme (to feed the planet. Energy for life, is "a little bit" related to the agricultural world. It is absurd, if one reads the words spoken by the then President Letta on 31 January 2014, that is the day of the approval of the measure in the Council of Ministers: With the related agriculture (...) we will give even more competitiveness to a crucial sector especially in view of Expo 2015, whose themes are closely related to agriculture and land. 2014 must be the year in which the preparation of the Expo and the Italian agri-food produce the synergy necessary for their mutual success. This concluded the then premier Letta. It sounds like a joke, but it's the sad reality. Yet at the time, undersecretary for agriculture, Martina, today Minister, was present, so we are in perfect continuity. But then I wonder, in the connected the four defined strengths then no longer represented a priority for the Renzi Government? The brand made in Italy agri-food was no longer a priority, also to contribute to the fight against counterfeiting and Italian soiling, which produce a damage to Italian exports of about 60 billion euros? Evidently not. In fact, Renzi demolishes the State Forestry Corps, which works well against agri-food fraud and decriminals the crime. With regard to simplification, apart from having anticipated something in the so-called competitiveness decree to overcome duplication of investigations there is nothing! Yet it is well known how bureaucracy is a burden for businesses, even for this sector. As regards competitiveness and targeted support measures to increase the competitiveness of the agri-food sector, farmers have for now only seen more taxes! And finally, on reorganization, in line with the objectives of spending review, a delegation to the Government is planned to reorganize the entities supervised by the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies. But even in this case it can be expected that, in order to put the pieces to the disassembled budget of the State, it is more convenient to make linear cuts, indiscriminate and irresponsible to Municipalities, Provinces and Regions. For the above, we condemn this measure, more for the method than for the merit. A measure which, by Renzi's will, had to give way to the proliferation of the fastest decree-laws, promo Renzi, or to demential reforms such as Delrio on the provinces or the constitutional one or the last of Italicum that do not interest citizens and businesses at all. The sector, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately only holds up thanks to the initiative of the farmers and the many young people who are investing in it. If they had to wait for the bill to be passed, they would have already died, and this is the embarrassing reality. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u64	Senator Amidei is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u65	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a great opportunity has been missed with this improperly defined bill for competitiveness and simplification, setting out the objectives for which it was intended to be drawn up. Indeed, much time has been wasted unnecessarily, the objective has been wrong and the result has been to produce a document that represents a hymn to bureaucracy and a slap in the face of simplification. The measure also indicates an even more serious fact, namely that the problems of agriculture are not known: absolute ignorance has emerged of what they can be and what the needs of the agricultural world are. Alas, with what courage is this bill called "competitiveness"? Do we know what competitiveness is in the agricultural sector? To know this you need to know the problems of the sector. I have written down a few notes, because the subject really deserves an absolute deepening, also because of the shortcomings that this bill highlights. We note that, as I said before, there are bureaucratic aspects that are opposed to simplification, but that would be nothing if it did not lead to an increase in costs. In fact, bureaucracy involves costs, slowness and a burden on the Italian agricultural system. In the measure, at some point, it pretends to seek aid - or pseudo-such - for the agricultural world, but in reality we note that the regulatory instruments are armored: there is an embalming of company flexibility through those bureaucratic delays that I referred to earlier. There is a sort of ripullo State-Regions-Comuni, which produces inconclusivity that is justified as a fantomatic local autonomy: it pretends to help the agricultural world financially, but in fact it refers to local autonomy, although knowing that the local authorities do not have financial and economic availability. When, at a certain point, we begin to get into the substance and evaluate the amendments - I will mention a couple of them - we see that indeed those which most represent practicality are in fact dismissed, dismissed and dismissed. When, then, it comes to the reorganization and rationalization of research and experimentation bodies in the agro-food sector, through the structural amalgamation in a single organism, it is pretended not to know that this will cause damage to knowledge, experimentation and the entities that have accumulated in the years value and value for the agricultural scientific world, as well as for the whole economic world. Article 13 pretends to help young people: it is finally decided to help young people (those aged between 18 and 40) and it is said that there will be zero-rate economic aid, but in fact we see that the limit of these contributions stops at ten years and 75% of the eligible expenditure. The aid, among other things, is focused on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, ignoring the fact that the competitiveness of this sector must stimulate the development of the agricultural holding, increasing the farm mesh compared to the current 5-7 hectares of average farm area at national level. It is not possible to think that this could represent the future of an agricultural world that wants to compete with Europe and the world: this shows an absolute lack of knowledge of the sector. Instead, one should learn how to do it a few years ago, with what was called the formation of small peasant property, really providing aid in capital account or, at least, significantly in interest account, that could be delayed in thirty years of life, giving meaning to a lasting investment over time. In this case, too, it has failed. Even when young people could be helped, nothing has been done. We must project the company into the competitiveness of the market outside Europe, in an international sense, but we do not know how to deal with it and we do not open our eyes to the fact that there is a structural deficit in the supply chain that is frightening. There are structural and infrastructural deficits, because the cost of road transport today affects, at the Italian level, for 1.59 euros per kilometre, when in other countries it is lower: in Spain it is 1.21 euros, with 32 percent gap compared to us, in France it is 1.32 euros, with 20 percent less, while Germany has a cost per kilometre of 1.35 euros, with 18 percent less than us. The energy cost in Italy is 0.22 cents per kilowatt, while the European average is 0.13; so we have a 70% more energy cost gap. And in this context do we vary this measure on competitiveness? Do we know what that means? We fill our mouths with Made in Italy when most cereals, meat, milk and soy enter Italy from other countries and there is no regulation or proper control that blocks this process. We fill our mouths by saying that Made in Italy is everything. No, gentlemen, agriculture could really be helped when it came to giving a clear signal from this Government in exempting agricultural IMU from payment on land, but it has not been done. With regard to costs per kilometre, instead of applying a reduction, giving aid on diesel, we have removed the benefits on agricultural diesel. At some point it could have affected fixed-term recruitment with the jobs act, but the world of agriculture has been included and has been placed a ceiling of 2 million euros that is funny, because this does not help agriculture. When concreteness is to be demonstrated it is not done and this indicates an absolute lack of knowledge of the agricultural problems by Minister Martina and this Government. Turning to other aspects such as - for example - fisheries, there is a sort of dissertation on bureaucratic, legislative and sanctioning aspects. To really affect the world of fishing, it would have been enough to intervene on the labels, saying enough to the single weight and providing for the indication of the double weight, to know what is the fresh product drained and what is the product with the ice. There is still no concrete impact on this point and no serious and concrete aid is given. Since my time is running out, I would like to address other aspects. There has been talk of structural deficits, of inefficiency of the country system that is born and shown in all its gravity. I turn to the Government and in particular to the Deputy Minister who represents it here: we need to know agriculture and know how to help it. Perhaps, in some respects, I speak also for professional deformation, because I can boast of knowing you at 360 degrees. There is much more to be done. Consider my speech as a help, a support, so that you can have a significant impact. I talked about an amendment earlier. As far as wet areas are concerned and are subject to environmental constraints, it was possible to derogate from certain aspects in order to ensure that, if a person wants to set up a kiosk on a road subject to environmental constraints as an arginal road, he can do so in such a way that the zero kilometre product is within the reach of road users. Even in this case, no effort has been made to give a signal to those who want to produce and sell the product at zero kilometer at hand. Starting with the conclusion, I extrapolated from the measure under consideration, which improperly recalls in the title the theme of competitiveness, a sort of paraphrase of a much older manuscript, which perhaps teaches much more than this bill. It is a manuscript discovered in 1692 in Baltimore in the Church of St. Paul which is called "desired." I am basically applauding this document, because if it brought only desires and not even a complication of desires, I would not quote it. But I like to quote the last two sentences because they refer to the message, which is taken through paraphrases, addressed to farmers and young farmers: Despite his deceptions, troubles and broken dreams, this is still a wonderful world. Be careful. Try to be happy. And I add: he wishes so much health and alive hoping. This is the message that, with the bill under consideration, you gave and nothing more. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u66	We welcome the students and teachers of the Institute including Tortorici, in the province of Messina, who are today visiting the Senate. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the measure before us today has had a rather unusual process. Designed to put agriculture at the centre, almost as a framework law on the subject, the title is significant. Over time, many of the measures contained in it have been transposed into other measures, starting with that on competitiveness which, moreover, at the beginning, had to be called a free field, as if to mean the will to free the campaign from excessive constraints. On the way, the measure not only lost pieces, but also part of its organicity and impact. However, it is necessary to recognize its intentions, the will to put at the centre, with a significant measure such as a link to the most important law of the State, our agriculture, in order to get it finally out of that vision of secondary sector of our economy. Of course, agriculture serves for health, to prevent diseases, to ensure the protection of the territory, serves as an element of social cohesion, but let us not forget that, first of all, it is an economic sector and fundamental from the point of view of the economy and its development. I know that today, with the Expo just opened, all this may seem strange, but two years ago, when the measure began its iter, we still carried on the echo of a vision of the limited sector. Today agriculture is strategic for the revival of our economy. It is an area on which a series of job opportunities are concentrated for the new generations and not only, in which a concept is being established capable of uniting knowledge, skills, identity values and cultures. I am thinking - for example - of what the President-in-Office of the Council was able to ascertain the day before yesterday, during his visit to Melinda galleries in Trentino, in Val di Non, where, besides the hypogeal cells for the preservation of apples, the servers for the protection of computer data will find space. President Renzi was given symbolically an apple and a cable for data transmission. But agriculture is also, as Expo urges us, the main test for a world that wants to question the future of the planet, how to feed a growing world population, how to do it through intelligent use of the territory, that is, through principles of environmental sustainability. It is clear that this is an area which is gaining absolute centrality, for which we cannot limit ourselves to spot measures, and which also needs constant and rigorous attention from this House and effective measures, in order to have the necessary tools to engage and overcome the various challenges. Having said that, it is obvious that the measure we are examining is quite inadequate if it is seen as a landing point; it becomes an acceptable premise if it is a starting point. There are many areas in which action must be taken. Last autumn, we Trentino self-governmentists handed over to the representatives of the government a programmatic document articulated with the most urgent measures - in our opinion -. In the Commission, with the representatives of the Government, I have been pleased to see, in recent months, an identical sensitivity to many of the measures proposed by us and to the fact that some of them have been accepted in the form of amendments, agendas or directly included in certain measures. Just to give two examples, I am thinking of the single register of controls, in order to prevent companies from having to undergo the same control by different persons who do not communicate with each other or the introduction of the prior warning, a notice to be sent before the order for payment. Referring to the colleague, I am pleased to record the inclusion of our amendment on the routes reserved for transhumance flocks. I acknowledge the considerable willingness of the Government and, in particular, of Deputy Minister Olivero, whose attention has always been high. However, a number of crucial issues remain on the table for the relaunch of the sector. I am thinking, first of all, of the need for a strong and robust bureaucratic simplification, with particular attention to small and very small mountain farms, for which bureaucracy is too often a real obstacle to their growth and development. I am thinking of the rules governing the use of vouchers, which must be more flexible and easily usable. But I also think about safety regulations in small and very small companies, where often the workforce is made up of family members for a few days a year and safety training takes 10-12 hours, in the face of a 40-50 hour job commitment. Safety is certainly crucial in agriculture, as in other sectors, but we cannot make it an obsession of courses, and we must be able to distinguish between small businesses and rather structured companies. Just as, always thinking of small and very small companies, the rules on the revision of agricultural vehicles and processing equipment, those for the certification of the use of agricultural machinery and those on the disposal of waste, in which we believe it is necessary to introduce alternative instruments to SISTRI. And I have to say that the environmental partner had some corrective intervention put in place. But bureaucracy is just the premise of a reasoning that encourages our agriculture to focus on sustainability, to make a system where conditions exist and to increase synergies with other economic sectors, starting from tourism and trade, to enhance local productions. Then there is all the talk linked to the entry of the younger generations. We believe it is necessary to link the campaign much more strongly with school and training, starting with internships and apprenticeships. The rules introduced by the Poletti reform are still insufficient. We must give the children the opportunity to start this course already from the fourth year of school and to the companies to hold them, framing them as an apprenticeship school, even for a period of one year after the end of the course of study. In essence, we must make agriculture a more attractive sector for our young people. On mountain farming, it is necessary to strengthen all those rules which allow farmers to carry out supplementary activities to supplement agricultural income. In fact, some already exist, but they are stuck in a series of technical constraints that, in fact, make them inapplicable. Just to give an example: if a farmer uses his tractor to remove the snow, making it work on agricultural diesel, he is committing an illegal act by law. It is necessary to make it easier to acquire the earth, which is the primary good, and especially for young people, because without land you do not work. The revision of registration taxes on agricultural land, particularly for part-time farmers in mountain areas, is indeed urgent and crucial. The list could continue, but I will stop here, because I want to stress that mountain agriculture also plays a social role. It is an antidote to the depopulation of a territory that, instead, has enormous naturalistic and economic potential. We must realise that the mountain is a delicate system that needs ad hoc rules: multifunctionality and the integration of economic activities are a necessity to survive. Undersecretary Bressa had announced the predisposition of a colleague for the mountain. We hope that the table of confrontation announced already last year will finally be established. Then there are the other sectors that call for urgent and appropriate measures: wine growing (we expect that finally the new single text of reordering arrives in the Senate), beekeeping, aquaculture and the problems of olive oil. There is the question of Xylella and then the whole social farming debate, which is finally coming to an end - I hope - and agroenergy. These are threads that can have very interesting developments. There is a need to reduce the tax burden: the discussion on the IMU exemption for agricultural land has also affected this House and has found much sharing. There is a need to reorganise and reduce all functional bodies, in order to grow more effective and truly at the service of the sector. But we also need to develop more disaster insurance. The link on agriculture contains important delegations to the Government. I hope that, in the measures that the Government will then issue, all these needs will be met in concrete terms. As you can see, the list is long and articulated. This sector has not had the attention it deserved for too long. Today we have to do quickly and we have to do well, if we want to take the opportunity of the Expo to the full and put Italian agriculture in the conditions of driving Made in Italy and being one of the keys of time to start the country again. I shall conclude, Madam President, by thanking Mr Martina and, in particular, Mr Olivero, who followed the debate on this measure here in this House, and also the work he has done in the Commission. I would also like to thank the entire Committee on Agriculture, starting with President Formigoni, who is also rapporteur for this measure, as is Vice-President Pignedoli. I have to say that the Committee on Agriculture is working very hard and is now waiting to examine the Government's measure containing urgent provisions on relaunching the agricultural sector. It is a cohesive and compact Commission, albeit with the different positions between the various components. Having fully grasped the importance of the agricultural sector and the European perspective itself, she is committed to finding the appropriate solutions and rules that will enable the agricultural sector to develop. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Formigoni and Marino Luigi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u69	Senator Ruta is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall make a few brief comments. I listened to the speeches in general discussion, including that of my friend Ruvolo, who spoke passionately, demonstrating his passion - which I recognize - for the matter. However, I would like to clarify a few points. How long has there been no discussion of such a broad measure in the field of agriculture? Of course - as my colleague from the North League recalled just now - the link concerns the last financial, not the last, so it arrives with a year's delay. That said, everything seems to actually tell a slow story, which is not exactly what we have experienced. In fact, in these two years - and I say this clearly in order to remind myself first of all - we have put in place a strategy for agriculture that has not been seen for a decade. Despite the possibility for previous governments to intervene in a significant and significant way on the agricultural sector, such a determined action has never been carried out. We have decided strongly to intervene with a specific text of the law, modifying the decree-law competitiveness in a meaningful way, to the point that on the website of the Ministry for Agricultural Policies it is written: Campolibero: actions for young people, work, simplification, competitiveness and security in the agri-food field. He added: "Measures in the decree-competitiveness law, also following the work of Parliament." This is written on the website of MIPAAF. To be honest, the Competitiveness Decree-Law already contained some articles referring to the so-called Campolibero package, but right here in the Senate, in the Commission, has been radically modified, with a joint work that has seen a sharing among all the Groups. This allowed us to anticipate the times of the connected in a decree-law that, if it is not certainly the ordinary instrument for the exercise of legislative power - I know well - was however certainly the way to act as quickly and incisively as possible. We have thus intervened by including in that measure the deduction of 19% of the costs incurred for the rent of agricultural land for young direct farmers and farmers up to 35 years of age; incentives for the recruitment of young people with an indefinite or fixed term contract of at least three years, with the reduction of one third of the gross wage; IRAP reductions for each employed worker; reductions in social security contributions, introducing - I say this because Mrs Gatti has worked there and, along with her, other colleagues, especially of the Democratic Party - the quality agricultural work network, which we are going to complete today in the connected, as Senator Gatti has well explained in her speech. We have introduced the single register of corporate controls for bureaucratic simplification in the competitiveness decree-law and today in the related work we continue this work, already begun, and we carry it forward. We have included the extension of the use of the warning before the fine, before the fine and the infringements, as well as simplifications in the wine sector. We have included tax credit for innovation and product and technology development at 40% of expenditure and up to EUR 400,000; tax credit for new networks of food production companies at 40% of expenditure and up to EUR 400,000; tax credit for the e-commerce of agri-food products at 40% of expenditure and up to EUR 50,000. It was also highlighted by colleagues of the 5 Star Movement who, in this sector, Italy is behind. This, therefore, was in line with the need to encourage, including by introducing controls, because this is an area in which counterfeiting can be freed in the sense of the term. We have imagined the strengthening of actions against counterfeiting, but, above all, we have included zero-rate loans for new agricultural enterprises under 40 for the production, processing and trade of agricultural products. These measures were not included in the competitiveness bill: we introduced them into the Senate and we are proud to have included them, because this qualified parliamentary action. I would like to take a minute to say something about the dialectic between the Government and Parliament. I must acknowledge that the Government, Minister Martina and Deputy Minister Oliviero have always followed our work with flexibility, but with the idea that Parliament is called to make laws. In the face of a decree-law, Parliament is not obliged to obey, but can fully claim the right-duty to make the necessary changes. This must return as a sacred principle. And I say and remind myself that the legislative power is assigned by our Charter Constitution mainly to Parliament and not to the Government. So, either we modify the Constitutional Charter and say that the decrees-laws become the ordinary way, as today is, to make laws in the Italian State, or, otherwise, we must know that we have the right-to take back the legislative power that the electoral citizens have assigned to us and since our Constitutional Charter identifies Parliament as the main holder of legislative power. I say this because the examples of the competitiveness bill and, today, the related one point out how the collaboration between Parliament and the Government brings much better results and results. Let us now turn to the link. The connected is not untied by the bill of competitiveness and, when it is said that there is little in the connected, it is because you do not have the overall view given by the bill of competitiveness, the connected and the other action that we have put in place. The other action seems of little account, but I recall that this House, on a motion, has anticipated the decision of the European Union, committing the Government to consider Italy as GMO-free territory; a choice that is not without consequences, but within the framework of the overall competitiveness bill, the related and the chosen one, which is a precise political choice. The European Commission then decided to give States freedom to decide what to do in their own territory. We have already produced agendas and motions to follow to commit the government. And the latter has already done its own to say that, in the meantime, the Italian territory remains GMO-free. Looking at the whole, these three measures tell us what we have done to date in the world of agriculture. I have already said things for securities, but I would also like to introduce the fact that we have included in the attached forecast relating to the land bank, which is an instrument and not a revolution. I repeat, it is an instrument. We've started tidying up the vigilante bodies. Personally, I thought that much and more could be done, because in Italy it is not scandalous to think about the relationship between the Ministry, the Councillors and the Regions that have the competence. And I would like to point out that this is not a matter of any kind and not of any residual competence in agricultural matters. In between there are nine agencies supervised by the Ministry. And you don't understand why they have to be nine and it can't be just one, with one head, one director and one board of directors with branches in all the Regions. When the young man, to whom we grant the zero rate loan, knocks on that door, why doesn't he have to receive all the information of the Agricultural Research and Experimental Council (CRA), INEA, ISMEA, AGEA (the paying agency and contributions) in one place, and he has to go crazy to turn for nine supervised entities that have become, in some cases, wheelchairs? Something we did, however, in this connection. We have said that AGEA needs to be rationalised and we have given new impetus to ISA. I've heard of the ISA that it was almost useless. I would like to make it clear that, if anything, there has been an institution that has made the choice of having considerable profits, it is the ISA, so much so that we use it as an ATM. When we need to finance some intervention we take the money from ISA, because it invests only on the blue Italian chips of the agricultural world. If anything, ISA should also invest in those companies that are not blue chips, because you don't have to invest only on the best being a safe investment. We have, therefore, allowed ISA to do more. Senator Valentini recalled that fishing has entered fully into the measures in favour of agriculture, which have also been extended to the fisheries and aquaculture sectors. There is certainly a need for organic fishing action and there is no doubt that we must implement it. But now, beyond everything other colleagues have already said, I would like to make only three final, simple and quick considerations. So far, we've done this. And we did it because it served Italian agriculture, but also because we had the important and decisive appointment of Expo. Now, you can say what you want, but Expo represents an extraordinary opportunity for Italy and for the many Italian producers in agriculture, who can exhibit, make themselves known and show off. Perhaps they do not have the strength to attack the international markets and can thus have the opportunity to stand on the international market and increase their productions. But what must be done from today? This is the world that ends in the first two years, together with Expo. Today we must put in place a strategy to increase the quality production of Made in Italy and to respond to the growing demand, which will also be so thanks to the Expo itself. However, two points are missing: how to network microproperty, so that those who have a small landowner can be on the market. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ruta, I invite you to conclude. RUTA (PD). Yes, Madam President. And the second point is how we defend the small mountain property. On this I really need a few seconds to make an observation. We, as an Italian state, should pay handsomely every person who, in the mountains, practices agriculture to stay there, because it is the watchman who guarantees that there is no hydrogeological failure. It's the real defense of the ground. And from time to time I see a difficulty in understanding that the mountain is not only the one that earns income, but it is also the many other mountains where income is not produced and is completely abandoned by the world of agriculture. We should pay those who go to practice agriculture in that reality, because it is an essential activity for the keeping and conservation of our territory. Many landslides, many floods, many disasters happen because people have abandoned the mountain, being impossible to get income in two thirds of the Italian mountain areas. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ruta, I invite you to conclude again. His time has really run out. RUTA (PD). The real question remains what is the method to convince the new generations to invest their existence in the world of agriculture and food supply chains. Made in Italy is a big bet, but we have to give an answer and we need courage, starting from the taxation we put in place, starting from the perspective of the future that those new generations must have to say that they invest their lives in agriculture. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u71	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u72	I call the rapporteur. 11:56 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u73	Mr President, I have listened - as I believe it is my duty - very carefully to all the speeches that have taken place in this House. And I must say that I was surprised by a couple of speeches, which contained a radical and absolute criticism of this measure. These interventions, to which I would like to reply briefly, have surprised me because perhaps they originate from fellow senators who do not have a picture of what the governments that have succeeded in at least a decade, or perhaps more, have done in the field of agriculture. This measure can be criticised, it is certainly not perfect, but it intervenes after years and years of forgetfulness. And surely I must say that it is not wrong who points out that it came to our attention in January last year. It is undoubtedly a delay which we regret, but which would have been even longer if the Commission which I have the honour to chair had not accompanied me in supporting and pressing the Government itself for this measure to finally arrive in this Chamber. Today he is in the Chamber and, although it is still at first reading, he gives important changes to the operators in the sector that go in the direction that those same operators asked us to do. Other than an empty bill of practical consequences for agricultural and agri-food operators. I want to be brief, but let me stress a first point that I think is fundamental: this measure gives clear indications in the direction of simplification. Simplification - and everyone in this sector knows this - is the first of the demands that operators make to us legislators. They too know that we live in a time when public resources are scarce, and therefore, before asking for contributions, they at least ask that their work be not complicated by norms, codes, hidden legends that make life impossible for them. In the field of regulatory simplification and the organic reorganization of the sources of law we introduce significant innovations: I refer, in particular, to the forecast of the collection in a single agricultural code of all norms that concern this sector. A single agricultural code and unique texts will allow the operator who wants to comply with the laws to know at least with certainty that all laws are included there, and will not be obliged to pursue other texts or to discover that his action is not respectful of the law because something has not been said clearly. A second point that I would like to mention is the issue of the reorganization of the system of supervised entities. Here again, this is a long-standing need that has been felt and underlined by so many, perhaps all. For the first time, with the measure under consideration, this theme finds a significant indication in the direction of the rationalization of the structure and the tasks of this body; it indicates the tools of risk management in agriculture, as well as the tools to face the emergencies that, unfortunately, are afflicting the agricultural areas of our country. And yet, nobody - not even from the most extreme positions of the opposition - could deny the importance of having dedicated a specific chapter to the issue of fisheries and aquaculture, also in this case with provisions immediately applicable, which correspond to the alarm and the demands that come from the fishing sector. Here, too, simplification rules on the discipline of fishery products are introduced, provisions on the rationalization of controls are extended to fisheries, the single window for fisheries and aquaculture is established, and specific measures also concern the sanctioning aspect. Again - and I shall be brief, Mr President, as I have committed myself to be - a fourth sector in which we introduce concrete measures is the defence of Made in Italy and, in particular, the issue of rice and tomato, with great attention to the consumer, with the indication of the need to provide complete information on the product. In the rice sector we give a delegation to the Government for the support of production. Moreover, the rice sector, as we know, is affected by competition from other countries' productions, and here too, the Commission which I am chairing is making a concrete effort, as well as in the tomato sector, precise definitions of products are introduced to allow sales names - labelling - to provide complete information to the consumer. Finally, some actions have claimed to ridicule what this measure provides for in support of the competitiveness of enterprises. It does not seem to me that these interventions go in the direction of the truth of things, if it is true, as it is true, that we foresee measures that favor the generational turnover, we introduce the instrument of the societies of accompaniment for the agricultural lands, precisely in order to favor the passage of the agricultural activities to the new generations, we establish the Bank of the agricultural lands, in order to facilitate the encounter between the demand and the supply of the land and the agricultural holdings, as well as to facilitate the modernization of the logistics in the agro-food sector. Other issues I could mention and I do not do so briefly, but I just remember that there are measures to combat counterfeiting and a title specifically dedicated to the subject of agricultural work. That is why, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the work we have done, in agreement with the Government, in the Commission - once again I would like to thank all those who have contributed to it and who have spoken in the course of this debate - has been a good job, which has given rise to a positive and concrete result which I am sure the operators will appreciate. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u74	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u75	Mr President, this measure has an extraordinary scope, and I would like to begin by thanking those who have helped bring here a text which is structured, coherent and full of important innovations. I am referring first of all to the members of the Committee on Agriculture, as well as to the many Members who have also contributed with amending proposals. I would particularly like to thank the rapporteur, as well as the President of the Commission, Senator Formigoni. Many Members have highlighted in the general debate the positive value of this measure and I will not go back to the individual issues. However, I would like to respond to the most serious, even well-motivated, criticism that has come from some of my colleagues of the oppositions: the one concerning the duration of the examination in the Commission and the alleged non-match of today's text with the original intentions of the Government. Senator Morra, whom I do not now see in this Chamber, but who yesterday was very effective in this regard, called the Government of Cunctator, i.e. timer, unable to implement the reforms it announces. Another is the truth: the government's action is not to delay and postpone, but sometimes to modify the strategy in order to achieve the objectives set in the shortest possible time. That was the government's strategy. It is true that the draft law has been amended; part of it has been introduced in emergency measures which are already State law. But in this I want to reassure Senator Ruvolo, and that is what Senator Ruta said just now: the Government's plan on this issue is clear and nothing of the work done in recent months by the Commission has gone or will be wasted. On the contrary, many of the demands, proposals and parliamentary initiatives have already been incorporated both in the text that is at your analysis and evaluation today and in other measures. I really believe that we are faced with a correct and useful collaboration between the Chambers and the Government. The aim is to unravel and simplify without reducing controls; to help businesses, starting from small and medium-sized ones, to network, supporting producer organisations, the emergence of inter-professionals, supply chain agreements; to promote food quality and safety, accompanying the technological innovation essential to ensure both environmental and economic sustainability. Furthermore, there needs to be a generational shift of enterprises; the integration of young people into the primary sector; the full use of new technologies in the agricultural sector and in the proper relationship between businesses, institutions and control bodies. It is true that some aspects contained in this measure may appear partial, but, as my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture know, they find the right place in the overall framework of the interventions made by the Government in the past year. The path introduced by Campolibero (the warning and, as Senator Panizza recalled little ago, the single register of controls); the competitiveness decree; the extraordinary plan for Made in Italy contained in the law of stability; the decree published just yesterday, on milk, oil and plant health emergencies that today see our Government engaged; specific measures such as social agriculture, the protection of biodiversity and the fight against the consumption of agricultural land, whose iter is in progress in the two rooms, are part of a single overall plan to implement those principles that I have just stated. It is not true that there is no strategy: there is and this measure is fundamental in this strategy. It is not an all-inclusive measure, it is true: we have adopted the strategy of using all the measures that have come to accompany these processes in the course of the year, but certainly everything within a vision of a unified perspective. Today we give convincing and punctual answers to the entire agricultural, fisheries and aquaculture sector. We aim for innovation to make companies competitive: Senator Pignedoli and Senator Dalla Tor remembered it. Today we need not general aid, not support for assistance to a sector which is considered to be dying and which wants to be maintained in this situation. Unfortunately, for years, agriculture, including at European level, has been conceived as a sector that is simply to be helped, so that it retains its conditions of backwardness. But innovation is needed to make our competitiveness stronger. The simplifications must be done well, Senator Padua is right: we have to be careful sometimes to ensure that some sectors - you mentioned that of vivaism - do not come into difficulties because of the complexity of the Italian agricultural sector, in the face of processes that can be useful for others. Ours is a simplification that concerns all the main sectors - I also want to say to Senator Scilipoti - starting precisely from organic farming that he has emphasized to be particularly important and strategic, and we agree with him in this. I would like to mention, again, the change of relationship between enterprises and the state, a new way of relationship with the supervised bodies, a new governance and attention to the development of new technologies, which help, as we said in the course of the Agriculture 2.0 plan, to cut costs and difficulties of our companies: Senator Fasiolo reminded us in particular. There is also the theme of the protection of specific sectors, such as fishing, recalled by Senator Valentini), the tomato sector and rice sector (senator Ferrara has rightly recalled the deep crisis of this last sector, which today requires ad hoc interventions to counter it), the simplifications in the field of oil production, recalled by Senator Albano: on this aspect the measure published yesterday, which I have already recalled, intervenes further. We cannot forget that these are important aspects, which concern the very important sectors of Italian agriculture. Then there is the theme of the network for quality agricultural work. Senator Gatti has called us many times on this subject and I believe that the synthesis made in the Commission - thanks to the contribution of all - has led to an important text, which is not only born from the logic of punishing those who are sacrosanct and necessary - but also to encourage and support virtuous enterprises, which are set in the right direction, also in the face of the difficulties resulting from the costs of regularizing work in agriculture. Let us not forget this: it is indeed a matter that we care about. I also recall the theme of protecting quality and contrasting Italian soiling products. I would like to remind Senator Candiani that, as Senator Formigoni said earlier, we have included many innovative aspects in the text regarding traceability, including new labelling. Of course, this is done in continuous work, in progress, with the European Union and with the other trading partners in the world. We know that we are not alone and that we cannot impose rules, but we must go and negotiate them, knowing what our objective is, which is the maximum traceability possible, in order to always give consumers the right to choose. As for the work on young people, Senators De Pin and Saggese, but also other senators, have remembered how important it is today to work with determination in this direction. These are just a few of the points raised in the debate, but it seemed important to recall them, in order to highlight what we are talking about today about concrete issues. Allow me also to express my deep regret at the content of some particularly critical and sometimes destructive speeches which do not give reason for the cooperation that has taken place in the Commission. In particular, I am referring to Senator Gaetti, who, in an intervention that I think is too demagogic, has not done justice to the contribution that the same Senator and his Group have offered during the examination of the bill in the referent. First of all, I am surprised to hear from you some complaints about the addition, in Decree-Law No 91 of 2014, of issues that had been discussed in the context of the related issue under consideration. I am particularly surprised at the fact that the amendments which gave rise to those amendments, which Mr Gaetti mentioned, were also signed, along with those of colleagues from all the groups present in the Commission. On the contrary, the method that was then decided to follow in an absolutely shared way, in the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production, was to anticipate in the decree-law the matters considered most urgent and on which there was a broad sharing. We did not want to lose a benefit that came from collective work and that the Government received: I want to say it clearly. However, I take note of this assessment. With regard to the reorganisation of the supervisory bodies, Senator Gaetti seems to forget how two of his amending proposals have been approved in this regard and how the subject is so sensitive as to justify the Commission's weighting. Also in this field, the Government considered to anticipate, through the law of stability, the merger of CRA and INEA which was the most shared point of discussion in the Commission. With regard to the AGEA-SIN issue, I would like to remind you that there are precise deadlines with regard to the private partner of the SIN company and that the Government, building on the contribution made by the debate in the Commission, and the wording of the text dismissed by the Commission itself, is working to find a solution that can combine the strategic importance of the IT platform with a need to rationalise costs and structures. On the other hand, with regard to the above mentioned risk of financial correction by the European Commission, I would like to inform Senator Gaetti and you all that this is a proposal from DG Agri, following an OLAF audit, not a correction already established. The correction proposed will in fact be the subject of an articulated measure in three degrees, in which Italy will have the opportunity to expose and document, both with written acts and with bilateral interventions, all the counter-deducible elements useful to the overcoming of what has been found. The Ministry is preparing the necessary counter-deductions requested by the Commission, which it will present at its meeting on the subject on 22 May in Brussels. On this occasion, Italy will be able to take into account the work carried out: the strengthening of technical and accounting functions, the strategic review of the procedures for managing creditor positions and the consolidation of the recognition of the same positions that have already been put to the attention of the Commission and that will be strongly supported in the European context in order to return the correction hypothesis initially formulated. On the decree-law approved last April 29 by the Council of Ministers and published in the Official Journal yesterday, I find unacceptable the statements of Senator Gaetti talking about mafia, I believe disrespecting the many victims of the real mafia and organized crime in relation to an issue, that of compensation, which was strongly demanded by the world of production. I understand that because we all sometimes use strong words in this House's serious controversy, but I believe that because we have mutual respect and we recognise mutual honesty, we must ensure that words are important. The Senator assumes a correlation with the coverage of the 108 million Quality Milk Fund, not knowing, evidently, that these covers are already established by the Stability Act for 2015. The rule, on the other hand, loosens the constraint of a purely national decision at the time of the transition to the new regime. I would advise the senator and all of you, of course, who are interested in this matter, to read carefully the rules of the decree; an important contribution of responsibility to our farmers at a time of great economic difficulties for that sector already hit by wretched milk quota policies, which justifies urgent legislative intervention. It will be discovered that we have intervened on the sales contracts, which from now on will have to be written and with a minimum duration of one year, and the contract will have to expressly contain the price to pay for the delivery that can be fixed or linked to determined factors such as market indicators, volume delivered and quality or composition of raw milk. Finally, I would like to inform you that the fight against unfair market policies has been reinforced with the Antitrust which yesterday decided to start a survey of the dairy sector. In addition, the interprofessional milk sector has been created to organize the supply chain that has never existed to date. All things, moreover, agreed in the meetings of supply chain and demanded from all the subjects of the field. With regard to Article 9 of Ministerial Decree No 1922 of March 2015, I reject the allegations made here. I would like to remind you that this is an instrument for further protection of the disbursements of the European CAP funds, which aims to identify undue demands for premiums resulting from illegal or abusive land-use. Precisely in line with this objective, a check has been established between AGEA and the owners, public or private, of the land that is notified of the request made by farmers on their property. Through this verification tool, cases of undue perception of the aid can be found and verified, allowing recovery. That is exactly the opposite of what appeared from yesterday's statements. With regard to the EUR 70 million fine mentioned, it should be stressed that these are sanctions for delayed controls and not for unexecuted controls. In this case, responsibility lies solely with the Regions. I do not go further in the details so as not to steal any more time from the measure in question, but I assure the full transparency of the Government and my Ministry and the willingness, even personal, to provide additional data that were deemed necessary. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, with one last thought. The agricultural and fisheries sector - it has been said so many times in these two days - is crucial for the country. However, over the years little attention has been paid to the sector, with the consequences that we have all known: closure of businesses (yesterday a colleague drew rather dramatic data), abandonment of the territory, degradation of the role of the agricultural entrepreneur. Today we have a chance to reverse course. We know that the task is complex, but in this field, as in others, today we are saying that change is possible. The problems, the complexity, the obstacles are not lacking, but in the year of Expo we will certainly not stop. I call on all my colleagues, in the majority and in the opposition, as they have done in the past months, to contribute, each for its own sake, to the solution of the problems I was suggesting. In comparison with the Assembly we will draw on the competences of all but, at the same time, we representatives of the Government and those who are part of the majority we will assume the responsibility to carry out these designs, in the interest of the Italian Country and agriculture, which is a significant part of its economy. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Formigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u76	The students and teachers of the Istituto complesso di Collecorvino, in the province of Pescara, are following the work of the Assembly, which we greet and thank for the presence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u79	TONINI (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I would like to ask the Presidency, of course, if all the groups agree, to postpone the examination of the amendments until next Tuesday, in view of two issues. The first is about merit. There are important amendments to Article 1, which relate to the known phenomenon of annoying xylella, on which the Government has expressed an openness. We know that the agricultural link is, in fact, a link to the Stability Act; reformulations are under way which must be assessed by the Budget Commission. The second aspect is that today - as is known - with the story that has affected the airport of Fiumicino, the transports have been upset in the times and in their ordinary modality of completion of the service and this obviously is complicated the reservations for the indentations. If the other groups were to agree, I would therefore ask for a postponement of the debate. However, since 12.30 a.m. it would be a loss of one hour of our work which we will be able to recover on Tuesday. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Not making any comments, so it remains established. I shall refer the following to the debate on the draft law at the sitting on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u82	Mr Albano (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two years after the massacre of Genoa, where on 7 May 2013 the container ship "Jolly Nero" of the Messina company, in the course of the maneuver of exit from the port, hit the Tower pilots making it collapse and causing the death of nine people, I would like to recall again the episode. Above all, however, I would like to recall those who have lost their lives and who have not yet had justice. Six were the victims of the Coast Guard: subcape Giuseppe Tusa, 25 years old, of Milazzo; subcape Daniele Fratantonio, 30 years old, of Rapallo; subcape Davide Morella, 33 years old, of Biella; the first chief Marco De Candussio, 39 years old, of Barga; Sergeant Gianni Jacoviello, 33 years old, of La Spezia; marshal Francesco Cetrola, 38 years old, of Salerno. Three were the civilian victims: Maurizio Potenza, 50 years old, of Genoa, radio operator of the pilots of the port; Sergio Basso, 50 years old, radio operator of tugboats; Michele Robazza, 31 years old, from Livorno, pilot. It is a tragedy that could certainly be avoided, that cannot be forgotten and that must lead the competent authorities to adopt every necessary initiative in order to improve the safety of a great and important port like that of Genoa. The criminal proceedings are currently under way at the court of Genoa to ascertain the responsibility of the six persons subject to the investigations, accused of multiple manslaughter, attack on transport safety and collapse of construction, and of the armored company Ignazio Messina, called to respond for administrative responsibility pursuant to Legislative Decree No 231 of 2001. I would like to take advantage of this moment in order to solicit an answer to the question 3-01666, that I have introduced last February, published 17 February 2015, in order to have clarifications on the initiatives undertaken in order to improve the safety of the port, in order to know the developments of the administrative investigations conducted from the investigative body of investigation on marine lefts and to know if measures have been taken against the shipowning society Ignazio Messina. In the hope that justice will quickly come to ascertain the criminal responsibility of those who caused this, let us remember together, ladies and gentlemen, the memory of those who lost their lives in this tragic accident and we hope that all the necessary measures will be taken to ensure that such tragedies never happen again. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u83	The Presidency supports the condolences on the anniversary of the "Black Jolly" accident and in the memory of the victims.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u84	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u86	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I take the floor to remind Oskar Piazza and Gigliola Mancinelli in this House and, through their memory, all the other people who have lost their lives in Nepal, with a number of victims who unfortunately do not want to be arrested: 7.557 the deaths confirmed until yesterday morning, more than 14,500 the wounded. A special thought goes also to the other two hikers, Marco Pojer and Renzo Benedetti, of which at this moment the search for bodies continues. Yesterday in Trentino the funerals of Gigliola and Oskar were celebrated. Both alpinists of the Alpine Rescue, for many Oskar was the best mountain guide of our land. It was written about him: Oskar Piazza is a different mountaineer, of those who go to the mountains for passion and for others, when others need it. Because Oskar, class 1960, is a pillar of the Alpine Rescue, able to put aside his ambitions to be always ready to help a roped in difficulty, to save lives. Oskar said instead: "I don't remember any particular fact that prompted me to become a rescuer: it is simply a need I feel, analogous to the desire to climb an 80,000. And right on the 8,000 meters, on more than one occasion, Oskar proved his talents, climbing in speed Mount Cho Oyu (8,201 meters) and Mount Gasherbrum (8,068 meters). His most beautiful memories, however, are perhaps Mount McKinley, climbed with three great friends when everything seemed compromised, and the crossing of Mont Blanc: An adventure with my father - remember - on his 60th birthday. Mont Blanc was his last dream and to succeed, just that day, to give him that summit was absolutely extraordinary. The mountain, for Oskar Piazza, was and is, without any rhetoric, a true teacher of life. In this regard he said: "He helped me understand the culture of respect. Respect for people, objects, dangers and the natural environment: something we should feel the greatest need for at home and at altitude, because, as he liked to be defined, he was an alpinist. I believe, Mr President, that there is nothing else to add, but to send our embrace to the family members of Oskar and Gigliola, Marco and Renzo and, through this, to express our emotion for what happened in Nepal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u87	The Presidency supports the sentiments of condolence expressed by Senator Panizza in the memory of these victims of the recent tragedy.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u90	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the phenomenon of the mortality of the poor because, at this point, after so many studies, I believe the facts are necessary. I come from the Tuscany Region and I am part of an association, Democratic Medicine, from which it emerges that death is not the same for everyone: in Livorno the poor die more and live more sick. This topic was dealt with by a study of a certain period conducted by the epidemiologist Hannibal Biggeri of the University of Florence, who became a dead letter. However, it was a very important study because it made us understand how social discomfort had a great impact on health and, above all, on diseases and the causes of mortality. This study has disappeared, while social discomfort has given way to virtual realities as the Leopolds may be. What struck me even more is that even the Junta Nogarin, led by the 5 Star Movement, has cut 400,000 euros of social aid for the poorest on a total budget of 328 million euros. So, the social approach suddenly seems to disappear from epidemiology and health plans. This is a tragedy at national level because it involves many millions of people. The 2001 study showed the incidence of poor schooling on mortality for all types of causes of mortality. In Livorno, unqualified men die 57 percent more than graduates and graduates, while women 42 percent more. In Florence the phenomenon is the same, but lighter for men and more marked for women and there is a greater mortality in cancer in cases of reduced education. In recent years, the situation has even overflowed with 124 percent more. It is very evident from these research data the effect of the harmfulness of the environment and of the housing discomfort. In Florentine women, the pathology of housing distress reached its peak with 131 percent more in families with poor sanitation. And then, besides work, there is also home and education. In conclusion, without waiting for the reasoning of the new study, which will be ready at the end of 2016, it is necessary to move on to the facts. Work, home and education are essential rights in themselves to return to groups of people who are excluded from their health. Important resources must be shifted from care to damage and unproductive expenditure, mainly used to maintain consent, to expenditure on primary prevention; housing, work and education are basic elements, together with the elimination of environmental pollution and the elimination of toxic elements. I hope that this will be followed by all the administrations. [[Applause from Senators Bencini, Mussini and Santini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-445.ana.u91	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.35 a.m.
