ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u4	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2110, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report, a preliminary question was rejected and the rapporteur's general discussion and reply took place. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u9	Mr President, from the outset, this government has put a very strong emphasis on the promotion of cultural heritage, assuming that protection and use are two concepts that are united, in particular because of the effects that this union has on tourism. I remember that from a recent survey, which was published yesterday by the press, four out of ten foreigners who visit our country come for the purpose of visiting a monument or archaeological site. I would also like to point out that the fallback of what is called cultural tourism is about five times higher, when compared to other forms of tourism, such as bathing. I believe that this is the framework within which this decree-law must be inserted, which, as has been recalled, elevates - and here I take back the expression of a colleague, Senator Martini - the use of public cultural heritage as an essential service, recognizing therefore a peculiarity of our country, linked to the exceptionality and the breadth of this extraordinary heritage. It has been said that this decree-law - which, starting from Law No 146 of 1990, extends to use what was already planned for protection - seriously violates the rights of workers, who claimed the late payment of extraordinary facts. First of all, I would like to make it clear that the previous day - and the trade unions were informed of this - the procedures for paying overtime had been initiated, but that the government's ratio has never been to undermine a right that we all recognize and must recognise, but to combine the rights of workers with those of visitors, in a context of confrontation - as provided for by Law No 146 - to find the least penalising ways for both tourists and for the image of the country. Moreover, this morning's news is that while an assembly is taking place in the archaeological area of Rome, the use of the Colosseum and the archaeological area is absolutely guaranteed, and this is already one of the positive effects of the decree-law under consideration. It has been said that there are no elements of urgency: Expo was towards the end, the Jubilee is at the door, not without many worries, and the Colosseum is Italy and the symbol of the cultural heritage of this country; it would not have been possible to reach the next deadlines without guaranteeing the use of the Colosseum and of all the goods that make up our cultural heritage. It has been said that this Ministry is not concerned with making cultural heritage accessible, and the example that has been made is that of disability. First of all, I would like to point out that the Court of Auditors, in an investigation carried out in 2014, has found, contrary to this statement, that our Ministry is starting and has started important policies. Of course there has been a reform, which has been followed by appointments, but the path around this fundamental area has been resumed and by May the new guidelines will be published to make our cultural heritage accessible also to other types of disability, which are not only motorized. It has been said that it is the responsibility of the administration for the lack of information and therefore for the inconvenience that is caused by it. I overlook the somewhat elementary use of English on the signs that had been posted at the entrance of the Colosseum, but it is a fact that the newspapers had already drawn public attention from the day before. Therefore, the matter was absolutely well-known and this did not prevent the inconvenience that has been caused by it. Talking about guaranteed access to public monuments means talking about guaranteed access to culture for all Italians and not only. Since many speeches at yesterday's sitting have highlighted the need for other measures to consolidate this line, I would like to remind you that for the first time - I repeat, for the first time - after fourteen years, thanks to the bill of stability that will soon come before the Assembly, the budget of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism will be considerably increased. Alongside this, more than 500 recruitments are planned in 2016. This is a precise strategy and within it must be inserted the decree-law under consideration, which remedys years of inattention that have affected not only our cultural heritage, guiltyly devoid of maintenance, but also the landscape and, more generally, that word that should be the sign of our identity: culture. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u10	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u11	I greet the members of the mountain choir "Abete Rosso" in Bedollo, Trentino, accompanied by mayor Francesco Fantini, who are attending our work by the forums and to whom we address the greeting of the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u12	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1 of the draft law. I note that the amendments are intended to refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted, in the text including the amendments made by the House of Deputies. We shall proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 01 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u13	Mr President, with amendment 01.1 the House is asked to consider the possibility of deleting the whole of Article 01. We propose this because Article 01 deals with Law No 146 of 12 June 1990, including the opening of museums and places of culture in the list of essential public services subject to the legislative regulation of the strike. Stigmating substantially the absence of the requirement of urgency, the Government, deciding to proceed with the decree-law in the matter of strike, subtracts the examination of the provision to the so-called reserve of law, whose already affirmed principle lies in the choice of the Constituents to reserve the discipline of certain matters to the law, to guarantee the rights, freedom, autonomy, independence and impartiality - I repeat, impartiality - of orders and institutions. Article 01 overrides all this. If we are to emphasise essentiality, we should perhaps do other things in order to give our heritage a boost and breath. Or when it comes to essentiality, life and conditions should be considered in order to be able to live and survive. Essentiality is eating and drinking. If we want to talk about essentiality, let's start by giving the minimum guaranteed water to Italian citizens, who today see themselves cut the counters for not having paid bills of 35 euros. These are the essentials. That is why, and much more, we do not want to vote on Article 01 of the measure. [[Applause from Senator Scibona.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u14	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency declares that amendments 1.23 and 1.24 on public transport services cannot be proposed, because of the extraneousness of the matter covered by the decree-law under consideration, which contains provisions for the use of the historical and artistic heritage of the nation. The Presidency also declares the agenda G01.3 inadmissible, which commits the Government to amend Article 01 of the decree-law in question by successive measures. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u15	For the reasons set out in the report, I am voting against all the amendments tabled to Article 01. I also object to the agenda G01.1, G01.2 and G01.4. With regard to agendas G01.100, G01.101, G01.102 and G01.103, I propose to replace the word G01.100, G01.101, G01.102 and G01.103 in each of them, with the word "preventing" by the words "evaluating the possibility of foreseeing, within the terms allowed by the code of cultural goods and the resources available" (G01.100, G01.101, G01.102 and G01.103). I therefore call on the Government to accept the agendas, where they are reworded. On amendment 01.0.100, with a view to adding an additional article after Article 01, the opinion is opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u16	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u17	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 01.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). PRESIDENT. - The debate is Pending the expiry of the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Rule 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting until 10 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.52 and resumed at 10 a.m.) I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.1, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators, identical to amendment 01.100, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 012.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u20	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, Amendment 012 basically calls for the deletion of a key word, 'fruition', since Article 01 provides that, in implementation of Article 9 of the Constitution, the protection, use and enhancement of cultural heritage are activities that fall within the essential levels of performance. Article 9 of the Constitution reads as follows: The Republic promotes the development of culture and scientific and technical research. It protects the landscape and the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. The word "fruizione" is a gross force because, first of all, it is not provided for in Article 9, but, above all, it is a free will that at this moment the legislator and the Government are taking and opening highways to erroneous interpretations of the dictates of the Constituents. Not only that: in Article 01, in the incipit, we find the essential levels of performance in culture. The expression "in culture" does not mean in the field of cultural heritage: culture and cultural heritage are two distinct things, as are the things that Article 9 of the Constitution requires of us. In fact, the periods are two, very different: we promote culture and protect the historical-artistic heritage. For these reasons, we ask the House to vote in favour of the amendment and to delete these words. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Paglini, I would like to take this opportunity to ask you whether you accept the rewordings proposed by the rapporteur on your agendas, G01.100, G01.101, G01.102 and G01.103. Mr Paglini (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does he still insist on the vote? Mr Paglini (M5S). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u21	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 01.2 tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G01.1, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u24	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I would ask the first signatory, Senator Montevecchi, to be able to sign the agenda G01.2; I would also like to make a very brief explanation of vote. I would like to insist because yesterday the general discussion saw some themes that pointed out how the decree-law in question became divisive. In my view, the strongest reason why this text is not accepted and supported is that there has been a reversal of the burden of proof. In fact, we know very well that our country has this very important and important quantity of cultural goods and this implies a reversal of thought with respect to this topic, because the cultural good must truly become an object of care and could not be cured if there were no adequate and above all stable investments. I have the impression that once again, rather than treating an illness, the way has been followed to strike those who are considered symptoms and generally this never produces appropriate effects. Declaring the cultural goods essential services is thought to be able to induce what you can not support economically, that is, an opening up and a valorization of these goods. The G01.2 agenda therefore calls on the Government to reverse the bad attitude that the decree-law in question shows instead. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Montevecchi, do you accept Senator Mussini's application for membership?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u25	Mr President, of course I welcome the request for a subscription, but since the agenda has received the opposite opinion from the rapporteur and the Government, I would like to propose a rewording if possible in order to try to change my mind. I do not know if Senator Mussini will still want to sign, but the rewording is as follows: the first point of the disposition remains the same with the addition of the clause: "compatible with the constraints of public finance". Moreover, since I believe I have intuition that the main reason for the opposition is contained in the second paragraph of the device, as the examination of the bill of stability is being carried out, I propose to delete it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u26	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u27	I am in favour of these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u28	With these changes, I express the Government's favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u29	Senator Montevecchi, do you insist on voting? Montevecchi (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G01.2 (text 2), presented by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The G01.3 agenda is inadmissible. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G01.4 tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G01.100 (text 2), tabled by Senators Paglini and Bottici. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G01.101 (text 2), tabled by Senators Paglini and Bottici. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G01.102 (text 2), tabled by Senators Paglini and Bottici. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda ( Text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u32	ICHINO, rapporteur. Mr President, as far as the agenda is concerned, Mr G1.103 (text 2) I would like to correct the phrase: 'attending the places' by the expression 'attending the places' because the verb is not transitive. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Paglini, do you accept this correction of the text proposed by the rapporteur? Mr Paglini (M5S). Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u33	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G01.103 (text 2), tabled by Senators Paglini and Bottici. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I remember that amendment 01.0.100 was withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u34	I am against all the amendments tabled to Article 1. I also object to the agendas for G1.1, G1.2 and G1.100. I also object to all the additional amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u35	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u36	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators, in the words: "Suppress Article." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.1 and amendment 1.2. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u39	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that as long as politics directly manages cooperatives that underpay workers, I believe that it will not be morally possible to legislate on this matter. I am referring to Laus, President of the Piedmont Regional Council, who, until the day before yesterday, ran a cooperative, the Rear, which currently no longer controls directly, which provided workers with the museum system paid EUR 4.50 per hour. For this reason there were also international figures, as Senator Favero said yesterday about the miserable image of himself that gives this state and that also depends on politics and PD. So, as long as these characters exist, who directly manage the workers and sub-pay them, you cannot come here to say that the right to strike is now forbidden and that workers will be fired if they complain. This is a moral problem that I have been marking for a long time and you, instead of looking at laptops and mobile phones should open your ears because today Laus is in the Senate, came for Michela's bicentenary. Then, perhaps, tell him two words, because the moral authority of politics to propose these things then must exist, but in this way there is not because between cooperatives, Legacoop and continuous externalizations... [[Comments of Senator Ichino]] I don't know if Ichino would like to work at 4.50 euros an hour, I don't think Sacconi would like it, either, do I? This is inverbid and you have to stop telling us these things if you don't solve these problems first! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Laus has to quit. This is the first condition to vote on this stuff. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u40	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6. tabled by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Pagglini and other senators, until the next word is inserted. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.7 and amendment 1.8 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.90.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u43	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, this amendment seeks to put a parachute on certain situations which should at least be observed in the sensitivity of each of us. The second paragraph of Article 3 of our Constitutional Charter gives us an indication and tells us that it is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles of an economic and social order, which, in fact limiting the freedom and equality of citizens, prevent the full development of the human person and so on. There are therefore economic obstacles that can limit the equality of people. With this bill you wanted to include the use of cultural goods within the special legislation that goes to limit the right to strike. And why does the worker strike? He may strike for several reasons, but there is a hinge, which goes hand in hand with Article 3 of our Constitutional Charter, just quoted: the worker lends his work and then gets paid. Well, with this amendment we say that at a time when the worker does not receive remuneration, therefore what he works for, the legislation can be waived. And I didn't expect this to happen after a month, but after two months of unpaid pay, just for wanting to meet, because probably the delay of one month may be due to the bank or many other reasons. But in the case of two months late in pay, do you want to make sure that the person at least says "I'm not okay that you haven't been paying me for two months"? Two months without pay, when here, even, absentees make to vote in their place another so as not to lose a day's diary! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do we want to ensure that after two months without remuneration at least the legislation is exempted? What we're asking for is this, so think again. The government is against it, but the people, whom you represent - because you are not here for the government, but for the people - what does it say to you? That it can wait two months of unrecognized pay and must also be silent? Think about it! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u46	ICHINO, rapporteur. Mr President, I just want to reassure my colleague, Senator Puglia, on one point: when the worker withdraws from work due to a lack of pay for the last two or three months, it is not a matter of strike. The Court of Cassation has stated several times that it is simply the civilistic exception for which non-extendum implementations. There is no need, therefore, to resort to the institute of strike. Simply, in the face of the lack of the essential performance of the employer, the benefit of the worker is lost. Hence, matter exorbitates from the subject of the strike. However, everything concerning the discipline of the strike in the public services will be the subject of an intervention that is already under consideration by the Commissions 1a and 11a, with an integration of Law No 146 of 1990. It will be possible to discuss how to adapt and supplement the general rules. It would make no sense to dictate a special discipline of the strike in public services in this rule, which is intended only to clarify that the use of cultural goods also falls within the area of essential public services.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u47	Colleagues, I would remind everyone that we must conclude the examination of this measure by noon, in order to enable the work of the Commissions to be carried out, and we have nine explanations of vote to be taken. So, unlike that, I'm gonna have to harmonize the timing.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u49	You have the right to do so. I naturally invite you to be brief.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u50	FALANGA (AL-A). Mr President, I will be brief, but we cannot remain silent and speak when we make statements that, to be honest, they have no relevance to the principles that are mentioned. In response to the rapporteur, the civilistic principle adopted by the non-extendum does not have anything to do with the work relationship. That is a principle that applies to contracts between the parties, where there are mutual obligations. The work relationship is something else. The principle is not applicable to this type of relationship because, however, it is the worker, beyond the implementation by the employer, who is obliged to be at the workplace and to render his/her benefit, because there is the relative consequence that dismissal for leaving the job can be. There are ancillary sanctions linked to the employment relationship which undermine the principle mentioned. I will vote against Amendment No 1.90, and I must tell Senator Puglia that the right to strike is something else. It has nothing to do with Article 3 of the Constitution. The central question is whether we are in the presence of a public service or not. If we believe that this is a public service, we cannot allow this service to be interrupted, even if for union reasons of assembly. That's the principle. So your reference to Article 3 of the Constitution is completely irrelevant. His reference to the non-compliance of the public administration that delays payment by two months is something else and has nothing to do with it. We must say that the service of museums, and of the entire artistic sector of our country, constitutes and represents, in the international context, a public service that we cannot allow to be interrupted. The reasons are also valid, but you can't get to that point. In addition, in case of non-payment for a month or two months, there are other instruments available to the worker and, therefore, there is no need to use this instrument which would prevent, moreover, the usability of the public service in the national context.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u51	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.90, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.10 tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.11, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.12, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.13, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.15 tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Paglini (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On Amendment 1,17 the 5th Commission gave a conditional opinion on its rewording. Is Senator Paglini in favour of amending the amendment in the sense indicated by the Budget Commission? Mr Paglini (M5S). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment No 1.17 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u54	Mr Paglini (M5S). I would like to point out one thing: although this decree-law will affect the lives of workers and the rules of the strike by putting stakes, both yesterday and today there is not even a representative of the Ministry of Labour. That seems pretty serious to me. All in all, that's what we're talking about. Since Amendment No 1.17 (text 2) really wants to go in the direction of the use of culture, we propose to add a paragraph. It refers to museum poles, important places and museums where visitors are at least 100,000 a year. We call for monitoring and evaluation systems. These systems could help our industry to flourish or to make that contribution that we think should be given to the Italian citizen and the world. We ask that the modalities and delivery of each service be provided. We ask that the levels of delivery of each service be monitored and evaluated. The same applies to the quantitative and qualitative dimensions of demand. We ask to know all this, precisely to create a system useful for the use of the cultural and artistic sector. I therefore call on all senators to take note of this and to vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u55	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.17 (text 2), tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators, up to the word "presence". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 1.17 (text 2) and amendment 1.18 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.19, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.20, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On Amendment 1,100 the 5th Commission gave its opinion conditional on its rewording. Is Senator Liuzzi in favour of amending the amendment in the sense indicated by the Budget Commission? LIUZZI (CoR). Yes, Mr President, as well as subsequent amendments 1,101 and 1,102 on which there is also a conditional opinion of the Budget Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Liuzzi, up to the word "written." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 1,100 (text 2) and amendments 1,101 (text 2) and 1,102 (text 2) are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,103 tabled by Senator Liuzzi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.24 is unacceptable. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.21, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.22, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u58	DIVINE (LN-Aut). We are asking for the vote, Mr President, but I would also like to explain very briefly the reasons. The closing rule included in the text is absolutely not such: to say that the measure will cost nothing, because it will be provided with human, instrumental and financial resources available to existing legislation, without adding anything else, it means that we have all the state budget available, which could be hijacked on the culture sector or not; therefore all staff of the public employment, under current legislation, could be hijacked on the culture sector. Since we would actually like to follow the letter of those who set out and explained the rule, this argument should be completely rewritten with a statement of the following content: all this must be guaranteed by staff in charge of the same service, by virtue of the date of entry into force of the President's decree. This is the only statement that would tell us that it will cost nothing more and will not have additional staff to the existing one, so we propose to change the closing rule.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u59	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.22, tabled by Senator Divina. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.23 is unacceptable. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.1, presented by Senator Paglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.2 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u62	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, I am sorry I could not speak in an explanation of vote on the previous agenda, because it was fundamental to me and I also hoped that it could be shared by the House, but we are now on the next agenda, the G1.2. What do we ask with this commitment to the Government? With regard to the Supervisory Committee, which has to deal with the strikes of essential services, we would like to extend the requirements already demanded of the Commissioners. In addition, we would like to ask the House whether it agrees to put in place initiatives, including legislative ones, aimed at establishing the impossibility of being a member of the Guarantee Commission for those who have been convicted of past convictions or who have ongoing criminal proceedings. That sounds like a common sense call. We demand that those who are members of this Supervisory Committee be an independent person and that they have no convictions or criminal proceedings in place, so a clean and correct person. A criminal or a person who has been convicted, in fact, I do not understand how he could guarantee workers' rights and respect for the rules. The agenda is asking for this, it is a very simple thing and, in my opinion, it can also be shared by a political class that thinks about the good of the country, the use of public goods, rights and the recognition of legality by all of us.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u63	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.2 tabled by Senator Paglini and other senators. The Senate doesn't approve. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,100, tabled by Senators Paglini and Bottici. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PUGLIA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u66	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to point out that I mistakenly voted in favour of the request for a vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u67	We take note of that. Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1, tabled by Senator Serra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PUGLIA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u70	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, before it is put to the vote, I would like to make Amendment 1.0.4. When I read the title of the decree-law in question I told myself that it was beautiful and fantastic because it is important for us Italians to ensure the use of the historical and artistic heritage of our nation to the whole world. From the title, however, I expected a much more robust and broad measure, while it is only an article that regulates the right to strike. If so, would it not have been easier at least to give another title to the measure, perhaps simply referring to the right to strike? First we talked about the fact that we want to include the use of historical and artistic heritage in public services. This may be the case, but the big problem is that you haven't done anything with regard to the use of our heritage. At least we - even us! - we give full confidence to the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism and delegate it to do, within one hundred and twenty days of the adoption of the bill, what is written in the provision but has not been done, that is to really allow the use of our heritage. With the amendment under consideration, the Government is delegated to prepare an extraordinary plan of interventions aimed at the training and retraining of staff of museums and other institutes and places of culture, in particular as regards the carrying out of specific guidance services and educational assistance to children and children, as well as for the support of disabled people. You will vote against and you will understand that you are always teasing the Italians. In this House, we use terms such as "fruizione" of historical and artistic heritage, and someone says that we must protect our heritage. But who does not agree with these words? We all agree with these words, but the big problem is that the measure provides for something else. Your vote against will clearly show that, once again, you mock the citizens. You will see, citizens, that their vote will be against!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u71	Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.4, tabled by Senators Serra and Puglia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. PUGLIA (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 1.0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u74	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I will be very brief. With Amendment 1.0.2 we say something very simple, always because of a true use of the heritage. In order to optimise the flow of visitors, we need to ensure that people can have an open museum or cultural institution and that there are people who work there. Therefore, at a time when, in a year, at least 10% of the workforce is doing extraordinary work that exceeds 250 hours - where we exceed, therefore, a really exaggerated mountain hours - we give the possibility to the museums to hire other staff, that is, we give the possibility of full and complete valorization and enjoyment of our historical and artistic heritage.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u75	Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.0.2, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators, until the word: "guarantee." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of amendment 1.0.2 and amendment 1.0.3. are therefore excluded. We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 1-a of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be explained, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u76	I am against Amendment 1-a.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u77	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u78	Let us move on to amendment 1- bis.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1- bis.1, tabled by Senator Barozzino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u79	I am against Amendment 2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u80	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u81	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Petraglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u84	[[Brusio.]] I call on my fellow Members to be silent. If you like, Senator Bencini, you can wait a few moments. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Let's just let the colleagues flow for a moment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is With her loud oratory, Senator Bencini, she will be able to involve them and keep them in the Chamber. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators who go and come, as the rapporteur and Senator Mazzoni have pointed out, to the general discussion of Law No 146 of 12 June 1990 on strike in public services, includes, from the outset, environmental protection services and supervision services for cultural goods in general. A non restrictive interpretation of this provision would have allowed to assume in the notion of supervisory services, even those carried out by the apparatuses responsible for managing the flows of visitors to the institutions and places where cultural goods are kept. However, despite the fact that the guarantee Commission has repeatedly indicated its direction in this respect, this was not the interpretation which prevailed in the effective application of the rule during the twenty-five years in which it was in force. Until 20 September 2015, therefore, the equipment responsible for managing the flow of visitors was kept separate from those in charge of protection and supervision, with the result of their exclusion from the scope of the regulation of the strike. (at 10.42 a.m.) (Benchini followed). The intention of this decree-law is to arrive at a point of balance between the exercise of two rights, that we, as Italy of the Values, believe both must be respected and guaranteed: the right precisely to manifest, to strike and to meet trade unionly by the workers for the protection of their rights, but also the right to enjoy our heritage of cultural goods. It is true, as Senator Petraglia said, that it is certainly not the assemblies of workers that damage the image of the country. On the other hand, it is damaged by the lack of financial commitments that the Government should make for the restructuring, strengthening and full exploitation of the artistic heritage. For its enhancement, concrete resources are needed to take on all precarious and invest in new objectives. We, as Italy of Values, believe that even the total denial of a right of others harms the image and the coffers of our country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bencini, I invite you to conclude your speech. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). We believe that regulating the right to strike, by making cultural goods part of essential services, is part of a process of valorising our cultural and cultural artistic heritage and importance to all workers in the sector, recognizing their professional and working role as essential activity and service, giving them an important burden, which, as such, must also have recognition in honour. Why, as they say in Florence: For nothing 'a sing the blind'. As Senator Martini also said, I think we have a plastic representation in front of us, which exists in this and in other areas: the field of health and that of large collective services have been mentioned. In these areas we must always work to try to settle, unite and bring together the aspirations, rights, the possibility of expression and social participation of the various components. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bencini, I invite you to conclude, because you have already exceeded your time by two minutes. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). I shall begin with the conclusion, Madam President. We of Italy of Values will vote in favour of the bill, as we think that the cultural goods and culture of our Country are an added value and must be valued, protected, implemented and exploited in order to make them increasingly a high economic multiplier, in respect and recognition of the work carried out by all the workers who work in the field of our artistic and cultural heritage, as well as in full respect of the users. [[Applause from Senator Maurizio Romani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u87	LIUZZI (CoR). Madam President, the decree-law that we are converting, as has been reiterated several times in this House, stems from the notorious episode that has seen the perhaps most famous monument in the world, the Colosseum, closed with very long rows of tourists waiting for a trade union demonstration. We Conservatives and Reformists have repeatedly called for a measure that could, while respecting the constitutional value of the right to strike, nevertheless provide for strict limitations, especially when compared to rights of equal constitutional rank such as that recognised by Article 9 of the Constitution, which includes among the fundamental principles that of the promotion and development of culture, as well as the protection of the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. We have been in solidarity with all the sensibilities that have emerged in this House and we know that we have an obligation to continue to have at heart the full exploitation of the historical and artistic heritage, not only in terms of its conservation, but also in terms of the unquestionable positive spillover that it can and must have, through tourism, on the increase of our gross domestic product. However, our Group has tried to improve the text, also taking the warning of the President of the guarantee authority on strikes by introducing, through some amendments, strengthened rules in this very delicate sector. Unfortunately, the Government and the majority have decided not to accept our amendments, preventing Italy from being able to align itself with the levels of far more advanced countries on this matter, such as Great Britain and Germany. No less, in an objective and general assessment, the Group of Conservatives and Reformists declares its vote in favour with the hope that the House, implementing the effectiveness of the entire measure, will re-evaluate the principles expressed in the proposed amendments. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u90	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, we have expressed all our criticism of the method used, of a decree-law, and of a non-existent urgency criterion, which means that the rules no longer exist, in fact the rules are there but the derogations are on the agenda. We needed a bill, we needed a debate, we needed to involve the other side. A deepening would certainly not have weighed down but only improved this measure. Cultural heritage has been brought back into the concept of essential public good, with an incredible force that risks also demeaning the importance and scope of the essential public good. We certainly gave a bad image of our country: seeing the Uffizi, Pompeii and the Colosseum closed, with people waiting without anyone opening the doors was certainly not a good business card for our country. It seems that there were also those who had arrived from overseas and therefore, lost the possibility of visiting, he will not even be able to think of repeating it. We can ask ourselves what image of our country these people will bring to their respective countries. If we go to see what Italy is culturally, we can say that it is the first country in the world, with 3,400 museums, more than 2,000 archaeological sites, 52 sites inserted as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. However, we are not able to make the GDP induced by the culture sector take off at all. Germany, which in our view represents virtually zero as a cultural offering and of interesting sites from an environmental or archaeological point of view, in the field of culture manages to produce 3% of its GDP, a figure that exceeds EUR 80 billion. France itself makes more than 90 billion euros, with 4% of the country's total GDP. Why can't we make the most of this sector? It has been said: we have a state-owned management, too bureaucratized and, in part, too unionized; and that is why we are able to get this kind of forceful measure through. International newspapers have shown the worst of the image that could be given in our country: we are practically incapable of managing our assets, we are a country completely disorganized. And - let's repeat - the game is not closed, because the union system certainly has not digested the entrance to leg tense by the state. An involvement, a further step, a bill would certainly have improved that. We are becoming more and more disappointed, because we had proposed the same things. When the League and the center-right proposed correctives of this nature, they found the full squares, attended demonstrations, roundabouts and purple peoples protesting. We wonder what happened. Now a left-wing government surely limits workers' rights: with the jobs act it has even made layoffs much more flexible; it is bringing the limit of use of cash to 3,000 euros; proposing what we had proposed on taxes on the first house are all operations that, if we had done them, we would have obtained (and indeed we have obtained) those results. It seems that the Italian left has undergone a genetic mutation. It is useless to talk about increasing the number of visitors - which would be desirable - if then in Rome, which is certainly the first destination of cultural tourism, we know how transport works (or, better, it does not work) and we know the problem of cleaning (when it rains, Rome is unworkable). If this is Roman management, it is useless to think of increasing the usability of historical, artistic and architectural assets. We cannot understand why our amendment was rejected, which really laid down a closing rule against the risk of doubling even the staff. You have to let someone strike; but, if everyone strikes and nobody opens a museum or site, the risk is that they will hire twice as many staff, so one day they will strike, the next day they will assemble and, whoever worked that day, they will strike the next day. The closing rule that you have put does not prevent the increase in costs, because it is said that everything will have to take place under existing legislation. But - as we repeat - we have an entire state budget which, even under existing legislation, can be adjusted, bringing funds from one chapter to another and transmigration resources. We were thinking of doing well to help improve this measure and we have tabled three amendments, which does not mean that the measure was opposed and obstructed. I repeat: we would have preferred to write, as a rule of closure, that it is guaranteed according to the force of the staff on the date of entry into force of this measure. This would be the only way that would ensure that the costs would not rise. We have tried to introduce a productivity premium - if you can call it that - to make the body and its workers feel on the same boat, because one of the worst things for a visitor is to find personnel who are unwilling or mostly rude. Since a smile does not cost anything and would increase the appetite and usability of a good, we thought we could meet the workers by providing a monetary premium according to the increase in the number of tickets issued the following year. This measure would have made the staff more involved and even more courteous to the public, but you did not want to accept this amendment, even if it was certainly at no cost. We also wanted to protect users for non-use, thinking of those who signed up for a subscription. Since on the day on which the strike is declared a person loses the right to use, we proposed - for example - for those who have suffered such damage, to extend the duration of the subscription or, alternatively, to apply a discount on the renewal of the next subscription, or, still in the alternative, to return the amount equivalent to the cost of the ticket lost. Everything would always have been at zero cost, but it would have greatly improved the quality of our service [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Therefore, although the North League essentially agrees with the measure, it cannot approve it as it has been drawn up and, therefore, states its opposition, recalling that, by approving only two of our amendments, we had obtained a magical triangle in which workers would be found at the apex, on one corner users and on the other the coffers of the State. By approving a small economic improvement resulting from the increase in the number of tickets issued, we would have obtained an economic advantage for the workers, a better service for the users and a benefit for the coffers of the State. It wouldn't have been so bad. Too bad the House would not accept that. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u93	D'ANNA (AL-A). Madam President, our country is a strange country that produces laws that it does not then implement and that sometimes, having not applied ordinary legislation, is forced to provide with urgent decrees not following the proclamation of the legislator, but coming from society, and that are elements of reflection of what the press and society propose us. We are here to discuss the fact that the work entrusted to the care and custody of archaeological and museum sites is also introduced within the framework of the essential public services, that is, that the type of workers employed in this field must also subjugate in advance, when he intends to declare a strike, the use of a special commission, i.e. he must give a reasonable warning so that the right to strike does not prejudice the right to the provision of essential services. Yet, I remind myself that Law No 42 of 2004, the code of cultural goods and landscape, had already introduced this type of services among the essential public ones. It would have sufficed to implement that law so that today we did not resort to the case that led us to approve the urgent decree-law. I would remind myself, always to myself, that the second part of Article 39 of the Constitution, which regulates the rules that should preside over the trade union organization, and that in this country, the unions, which were in the years of statisticalism exasperated the key of time so that governments could act in the sphere of their or workers' competences, have always opposed to determining, through the correct and full application of that article, the census of members and the correct evaluation of the maximum or greater representativeness of trade unions or employers' associations in the context of concertation (assessment of who should then be admitted to consultation at the various levels in order to represent the categories or workers of this or that sector). Everything has always been done at sans façon, without taking into account the imperative of both constitutional law and other disciplines such as those I mentioned earlier on the code of cultural goods. Then what can I add? Let this measure come but, once again, we are here to deliberate under the pressure of contingent and reprehensible facts that - as has already been said several times - have undermined the image of Italy abroad. But if the 2004 measure and Article 39 of the Constitution had already been fully and fully implemented, we would have nothing to discuss today. Another consideration must also be added: one of the characteristic elements of statism is that it gives the State a number of functions that it should not have. I remind myself that, in the archaeological site of Pompeii alone, there are 14 trade unions representing the workers who work there. So imagine what kind of conflict there is inside that site. And then I remember the low productivity at the museum of Reggio Calabria, where the bronzes of Riace and 260 custodians operate, and I repeat 260 custodians. So, when I hear Senator Puglia outraged because someone tramples on workers' rights, I would like to say that - in my opinion - we are on the wrong side. The problem is not only to guarantee workers' rights, but also to explain to us what 260 people do to us in a museum made up of only about twenty rooms. Then, gentlemen, the State should withdraw and give to private companies, with the guarantees of which Senator Puglia spoke - and he was right - the management and cleaning of those monuments. Go visit - for example - the Palace of Caserta and look at its bathrooms and parking in the underpass, vandalized. These are business cards, too. And I can't tell you, as for Reggio Calabria, how many keepers and cleaning workers has the Palace of Caserta. As long as there is the misfortune of conceiving a public service as a state monopoly, without understanding that it must be, by definition, accessible to all and free of charge to those entitled to it; until we rely on the criteria of competence and merit with the control of productivity, we will raise people who from evening to morning will do nothing but trade union action whenever they are asked to do their duty, or we will entrust ourselves from time to time to firms with piecework workers. Senator Puglia talked about people who haven't received their salary for two months, and why did this happen? It would have sufficed to ask, in the notice of invitation to tender, for a guarantee with which the entrepreneur or the cooperative had to guarantee at least twelve months of remuneration for its employees or for its members. I address Minister Franceschini, who is here and is busy, even if he has enjoyed the change of mentality (the walls have collapsed, but in Pompeii no one asked him to leave as it was done with good Bondi): we must choose efficiency and productivity, and not because we want to be autarchist liberalists, but because whenever we erode, on behalf of the State, money that does not reach the goals, we do it to the detriment of both the users and the operators of that service. There is a law of nature: every service works when the survival of those who maintain or manage it depends on the user's liking of that same service. And when the ethical link between reward and merit is delegated tout court to the State in the name of a conception of archaic, anachronistic statism and that has nothing to do with the protection of workers (because no one discusses the rights of workers beginning with the punctuality of pay), you have to choose, you can no longer stand in the middle of the ford. Either you rely on liberalism or you will continue to waste money on making the State do things that it cannot, does not want and does not have to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u96	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister and representatives of the Government, I am speaking briefly to announce the support of the Group for the Autonomies (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and to express the satisfaction, unlike some speeches I have heard today, for the measure under consideration, which is certainly urgent and aimed at ensuring the use of the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. We believe that it is absolutely essential, at a time like the present one, when Italy must assert its competitiveness on the cultural and, above all, tourism, that the Government has taken responsibility for the problem with a measure of urgency aimed - hopefully - at finally resolving an issue that, often and willingly, has made us make bad figures. Those who preceded me reminded me very well of the importance of the Italian historical and artistic heritage, a heritage that no one can reproduce. In so many areas of technology and innovation we have been copied and someone has also surpassed us, but in the field of culture and historical testimony no one can invent or create anything. And, therefore, it is a heritage that belongs to us, that has been valued but must be even more so. I can only welcome with great satisfaction the Government's efforts towards culture and, in particular, Minister Franceschini, who - I must admit - has shown great sensitivity and has given the sector the right weight, putting it at the centre not only of the country's cultural and social policies, but also of economic development. There can be no growth of a community or competitiveness or even creativity and innovation in companies if there are no ideas and there is no doubt that culture produces ideas, helps the head to think and gives added value to a community and a society, so it is an extra card on which we must absolutely aim. And we must certainly do so for the competitiveness towards the outside, for the competitiveness of our tourism and of course of Made in Italy, of the Italian image and credibility in the world, especially when we are approaching the Jubilee appointment, but above all to increase the awareness and also the sense of belonging of our community. It is therefore a strong investment that we are making on culture today, and I hope that the positive efforts of the Government and Parliament, also expressed in the law of stability, which sees for the first time the MIBACT budget on the rise, will continue in the direction of investment. I must also say, with satisfaction, that legislation has recently been adopted in this direction. I mention only the art bonus and the recognition of the deduction of funding for culture from taxes paid. I hope that we can believe and invest more in this direction. I hope, then, that there will be an investment in favor of all the artistic riches present on the Italian territory and also a valorization of the individual peculiarities also to give more strength to the identity - as the Undersecretary has said well, that has introduced this measure - because culture means strengthening the sense of belonging to a territory, as well as enhancing what distinguishes us and makes us different from others. And this morning we greeted in the Chamber a mountain choir, the choir "Abete Rosso," which is one of the many components that, fortunately, enriches our identity as a people. It is true that there are also aspects related to workers' rights, but it does not seem to me that the Government is going to override them. It is also true, however, that there are emergencies and instances that become public. And the government has done well to consider the cultural one as an emergency, because it is. It is for the topicality, but above all for the development of our country and its image abroad. Each of us, in fact, is ashamed when groups of foreign tourists arrive in Italy and go to the Colosseum or Pompeii, and cannot find accessible facilities. As the Undersecretary said, accessibility to monuments and museums is accessibility to culture and training. And the right to culture, together with the right to work and health, must be guaranteed in a civilised country. It seems to me that there are all the instruments in this regard - as has been explained in the interventions made by the Government in this House - to reconcile the needs of workers with those of a collective and an entire country. I must reiterate that the path taken is - in my opinion - right and it is also right to focus on youth culture and employment. In fact, there are many young people who have been trained, graduated, who have also done research and master's courses, which are now out of work. And culture creates jobs and, above all, skilled employment. Of course, in addition to cultural professions, cultural volunteering must also be supported, because it is part of our fabric, which works on the territory and reaches the community more, and especially those who have difficulty in accessing culture. Disability has also been mentioned, and I think this aspect is particularly important, because it falls within the field of full accessibility to culture. Investing in culture, therefore, also means investing in young people and in the efforts that young generations, schools, universities and research centres are supporting in this field. And I have to admit that, sometimes, it is an effort not sufficiently rewarded and recognized. In this field Italy can really make a difference and show that it has an extra gear. The road is still very long - we know that - and the difficulties are many but, at least, it is important that the right path has been taken. For these reasons, therefore, we strongly support this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u99	BAROZZINO (Misto-SEL). Madam President, the SEL-L'Altra Europa Group with Tsipras will never vote in favour of this decree-law. We will never vote - I apologise for the term I am about to use that it will seem strong to someone, but it certainly is not - such filth. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] I remind everyone - since I have heard passages in this regard, but of course, and as always, there is a veil of hypocrisy - that nobody here in this Chamber wants to harm the image of our country. I don't think any of us want that, but when you use those words to say anything else, I think it's profoundly wrong. I think the image of our country is compromised when one takes the subway and can't get in. One day yes and the other also the metro in Rome has some faults. You travel in an incredible situation, but you pretend nothing and talk about something else and erase workers' rights. I remember what happened in the last year and a half to figure out what we're talking about. Madam President, workers are now fired, blackmailable, demised and spied on as criminals. One thing remained for the workers: the possibility of meeting. Ten hours were granted in one year, subject to at least 48 hours prior notice. Workers are now also prohibited from meeting and, therefore, from speaking and possibly resolving problems. Who does this under the lie of hypocrisy? The Italian Parliament. At the forum where democracy is to emerge and where it is to be discussed, workers' rights are being erased, and this is done in the most petty way. Measures such as a time bomb are established: facts happen and the government intervenes on time. I have listened to the whole debate and it is true that we must respect the opinions of all - and far from me not wanting to do so, because in democracy we must respect the opinions of all - but hearing the rapporteur talk about victory makes me cramp in my stomach. Why? Because different opinions are the hall of democracy, but you cannot name the people who have made the history of our democracy and the Constitution. I remind everyone that Di Vittorio said that one had to fight for a decent job, because the worker no longer had to take off the cup in front of the master. By Vittorio he united the struggles and thanks to the struggles of partisans, workers and peasants we could build our beautiful Constitution, the one that until recently, according to everyone, was the most beautiful in the world. Who forbade and thought it unlawful to strike before our Constitution? President, I say this without making any hints. It's obvious. History tells us, and I'm not telling you. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] Before our Constitution, the strike was a problem for the masters. Now we are returning to those formulas and I am really concerned about the democratic holding of our country. You can't pretend you don't understand. I say something else that seems appropriate to me and I address the senators who preceded me. Some have argued that, when the center-right wanted to make these reforms, a so-called left wing rebelled. Well, it's true. The only thing that is not true is that that part of politics is considered left-wing. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] I'd be really offended that that part still feels left. Even if we talk about culture, when in the world of work - I want to remember it always and forcefully and for this reason we will never vote on these filthy things - we tear democracy and the dignity of the people who work - I remember that they are the ones who produce wealth in our country - hiding an unprecedented hypocrisy, I think something inappropriate is being done. I remind everyone that today the worker no longer has any right, except to hope that the prayers will be received by the master. I remember, in fact, that the worker with the jobs act can be fired at any time, can be demanded, supervised and now does not even have the opportunity to meet. That's what we're talking about. And, if these are left-wing reforms, I really get turned around, and I really do say that with regret for that part that is on my left, that I still value and that should really have a shot of dignity, once and for all. [[Applause from Senators Bignami, Simeoni and Vacciano.]] I conclude with the following consideration, because I believe that my time is running out and I do not want to be called back. A while ago, I was familiarized by a person who is part of this majority, talking about the jobs act, who remained inside me. I will not say more, because I have full respect for the confidences. I was told that the jobs act were weak, almost cowardly, in not addressing such an important issue and in allowing workers to be massacred in the workplace. I say to you, with a little anger - yes - but always with deep respect, that those who vote for such a pig show, once again, that they do not have courage. Those who do not want to face what is happening today in the world of work do not have the courage to face the reality of the country. And those who do not have the courage to face the reality of our country do not have democracy at heart. In short, as I have been saying for some time now, I am having a hard time being in this House, and not because I do not respect it, but because I would like it to have respect for who it should represent in the end. I say, how I am able to do that, that the real anti-politics, unfortunately, is in here. We don't take it out on people and, I know someone is happy that they don't vote anymore (by now 50% of them don't do it anymore). If we want, however, to regain the trust of those who brought us here, we must have, even with different positions, the full respect of those we want to represent. Today in this House nothing is represented, it is the end of politics, and I do not want to witness the death of politics. I believe - I repeat - that politics is primarily for normal people who, in order to earn their lives, have to sweat every day. This would be useful for politics: let us take it back with different opinions, and let us return to politics. Otherwise, everything else is chatter to the wind. [[Applause from the Misto-SEL Group and Senators Paglini, Simeoni and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u100	We greet the students and students of the Institute including Brothers Cervi in Rome: welcome and welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, Minister Franceschini, Mrs Subsecretaria, on behalf of the People's Area Group, I fully share the Government's intention to extend with this measure the scope of Law No 146 of 1990, which concerns the strike in essential public services, the services of the regulated opening to the public of museums, monuments, institutes and places relevant to national cultural, historical and artistic heritage, also with a view to the imminent development of important events of a religious and cultural nature. This is a most important aspect in a country like Italy that boasts the presence of 52 UNESCO sites and an immense artistic and cultural heritage, made of monuments, archaeological excavations, palaces and museums, and unfortunately still too little valued. In the course of the debate, many speakers spoke of a hasty adoption of the emergency measure by the Government; a sort of reaction to the closure of the Colosseum for several hours, last September 18, for the participation of employees, who did not receive from a year ancillary salary and contractual renewal, at a trade union assembly regularly authorized. But I can reiterate here that there have been more than one occasions that have led to unexpected closures of monuments and archaeological sites and have generated widespread discontent. Such situations would be even more unpleasant if they occurred during the course of the next Jubilee. As has been said on several occasions both in the debate in the Chamber of Deputies (in the Commission and in the Chamber) and during the discussion in the Labour Committee, Social Security of the Senate, the intention of the decree-law is not to undermine the rights of workers, limiting their right to meet legitimately in a trade union assembly, but to arrive at a balance between the exercise of workers' rights in museum structures and the right of the person - whether a tourist or a citizen - to enjoy them. And it is even more wrong for those who make this debate a battlehorse in defence of the reduced guarantees for workers in the cultural goods sector, because it is precisely the extension of the application of Law No 146 of 12 June 1990, to this sector that they are guaranteed, if anything, greater protection, by regulating the rights to demonstrate according to the rules typical of the essential public services. It should also be noted that during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies the scope of the norm was limited by adding the requirement that institutions and places of culture should belong to public subjects, thus excluding museums, art galleries, libraries, archives, historical buildings of artistic value and other cultural heritage belonging to foundations or in any case to private subjects. This effect was achieved by limiting the reference to Article 101 of the Code of Cultural Heritage and Landscape (issued by Legislative Decree No 42 of 22 January 2004) to the only paragraph 3. On the other hand, I would like to stress here that public administrations and public service companies must learn to be the so-called good employer, who knows how to combine the rights of users with those of workers, as well as in trade union competition, we must avoid objective conditions for the bad currency to drive away the good one. Not only is the inclusion of cultural goods in the essential public services functional, but above all the reform of the strike regulation in this area. The aim must be to promote orderly industrial relations, encouraging the criterion of representativeness and thus preventing aggressive minorities from penalising users for competition with the most responsible organisations. Nevertheless, however, the employers' behaviors that feed union radicalism with their inability and inefficiency must be sanctioned. And, precisely in this regard, I would like to remind you that in recent months, after years of fruitless debate, in the Committees on Constitutional Affairs and the work of the Senate, the process of examining the draft law for the reform of the right to strike has begun, among which is the proposal presented by my colleague, President Sacconi, which delegates the Government in the matter of regulation and prevention of collective labour conflicts with regard to the free movement of persons. For some time now, the Commission's annual reports guaranteeing the implementation of the Law on the exercise of the right to strike in essential public services have signalled a progressive loss of effectiveness of the rules of Law No 146 of 1990, despite the various changes that have taken place. In the same direction, the periodic comparative surveys of the European Foundation of Dublin on conflicts in Europe indicate an abnormal recourse to conflict, which has a greater impact in Italy than in other countries on the enjoyment of the rights of the person and on the efficiency of the production system in general. It will therefore be in that forum that it will be possible to restore full effectiveness to the law that regulates the exercise of the right to strike, on the understanding that this objective will not be pursued merely legislative without a rethinking of the union and labor relations and a simplification of the contractual structure, in order to identify more clear and clear relations between the national level and the business level and to weaken the causes that generate the conflict. However, we are returning to that debate every consideration, more generally, of the exercise of the right to strike in essential public services and today we are sticking to the issue under discussion. At this point, I think it is right to thank the rapporteur, Senator Ichino, who has strongly demonstrated the unfounded nature of the principle of unconstitutionality of the measure and has punctually countered the repeated demands of the members of the minority on the matter. However, today's debate cannot ignore the fact that, as stated in the Commission by the State Secretary for Cultural Heritage and Activities, Borletti Dell'Acqua, since 2000 the appropriations for the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities have been reduced by 40% and that the average age of employees has grown, which today is around fifty-seven years old. It should therefore be pointed out, as a corollary of any consideration, that this Government has undertaken a clear reversal of the trend, with a considerable increase in the funds, arranged in the budgetary maneuver, and has envisaged an increase in staff, which will lead to the possible recruitment, from next year, of about 500 people. This demonstrates that the Commission believes in culture as a driving force for the country's development, has a programmatic vision of interventions in the sector and really intends to promote and support investments in culture and youth. The approval of this measure can therefore only reiterate the need to speed up the launch of a new discipline, which really reconciles the rights of citizens to the use of all public goods, not only of cultural goods, with the right of workers to strike and free trade union association. I therefore strongly support the People's Area Group's vote. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u104	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, I begin by saying that this bill is not acceptable and we shall therefore vote no to this shameful farce. The decree-law in question essentially amends the Act on the regulation of strike, No 146 of 1990, including in the essential public goods, the opening to the public of museums and other institutes and places of culture, and thus restricting the links of the right to strike for the category concerned. This is because we have a President-in-Office of the Council who is indignant and of the media, who is 72nd in the world ranking for freedom of information, who is pumping his instrumental indignation. The President of the Council gets angry because an assembly of workers of the Colosseum meets for two hours, creating inconveniences for tourists, and says that those workers cause enormous damage to our country, a bad image, and decides to give the category a good punishment, a grip of lives to their right to strike. In our country he thunders his anger: the wrath of the Premier! Thus, our national communication, enslaved, follows orders practically to the letter. The paper in my hand is the result. In it are collected some titles of newspapers; I read some of them: "Colosseum closed: the wrath of Renzi", "Ira di Renzi", "The wrath of Renzi: "a shame!""Renzi's anger in a tweet "," "Renzi's anger in the Chamber," "Renzi's anger in the Premier's anger." Well, you have to know that during fascism, Minculpop handled any problems that might arise in the country emphasizing the anger of the duke. The media strategy was to overturn the table by communicating the concept that the head of government was furious with those who had provoked the problem. So Mussolini went from possible accused to severe accuser and in perception was no longer part of the organs of power, but, on the contrary, of the angry people. They are now known strategies, such as the continuous semantic scams to which Renzi has accustomed us, as the cleverness to call this decree "Act" introducing urgent measures for the use of the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation, when the real title should be: "Decree introducing restrictive measures of the right to strike in the field of cultural goods" [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I keep saying that in this House, neither yesterday nor today, a representative of the Ministry of Labour has been present: not one! There is therefore a stylicide of the right, administered in small doses, in progressive form, but constant, in order not to trigger a popular reaction that, if alarmed in its entirety, could overturn you. In truth, colleagues, you are not so loved, not even by your own, since a founder and leader of your party, just yesterday declared: People are disgusted by Renzi's PD. But what do we expect from a government that has at its summit a gentleman who declares: Are strikes bad for Italy? Maybe we should expect a decree to ban the strike by law? It is a super idea, born at Leopolda in 2014, where the same supporter Renzia, Davide Serra, began by asking to limit the right to strike, hoping to make the right to strike much more regulated, before all do it random. It is terrifying that Serra's advice to take an example from how well the system works in Russia or China and it is known: when the paying landlord orders, his words become law. The result is that today Renzi thunders: The strikes are bad for Italy. And they still make up lies like in this statement: Only in Italy is it allowed employees who deal with cultural assets to strike. Only in Italy is it possible to close an archaeological site or a national museum. Falsity set forth by a serial liar. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Let's just take a few examples to disprove. This year in France the Louvre Museum closed several times, the staff at the Eiffel Tour crossed their arms. In the United Kingdom, the National Gallery in London has partially and totally closed its halls. The employees of the Alhambra in Granada, Spain, were also strikers. So did the National Museum of Scotland, and so on. And not always with a warning as happened on September 18 in Rome at the Colosseum, with a trade union assembly announced and absolutely legitimate. I repeat: legitimate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The fact of striking or closing for a trade union assembly a museum, as Renzi says, therefore does not appear to be a peculiarity only Italian. Instead of understanding the reasons for an assembly, for people who have not felt overtime for many months, or had no longer a turnout, the government is on the way to criminalize workers so that they can no longer exercise their legitimate right to assemble. The dialectic between the dada and workers, which manifests itself through the strike or the exercise of union rights, is one of the fundamental elements that characterize modern democracies. Before today, this principle was called into question only once with the agreement of Palazzo Vidoni of 1925 at the dawn of the fascist dictatorship, which effectively eliminated the free trade union and laid the foundations for the subsequent penal repression of the strike. And how do you limit the right to strike? With a decree-law, yet another. Your abuse of the use of decree-laws is shameful! In this legislature 68 decrees-laws were presented and out of over 40 trust was placed. It is a legislative bulimia that has become a real disease of our order. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Your reasons listed in support of the thesis of legitimacy, necessity and urgency of the decree-law are absolutely fragile and above all inconsistent. I would remind all of you that the decision of the Constitutional Court n. 128 of 2008 made it clear that declaring that it is urgent is not enough: it must also be justified as a matter of urgency. In the report presented to the Commission I work on the reasons for urgency of the measure were seen in the risk that episodes similar to those of the Colosseum or Pompeii would be repeated in Milan, where Expo 2015 was underway and in Rome, where the opening of the Jubilee is imminent. I would remind those who supported this thesis, including the rapporteur, Mr Ichino, that the Expo has now closed its doors, and even two months it was known that it would close them now. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If this provision had served that purpose, you could find another excuse. As for the extraordinary Jubilee, I remember for those who had forgotten that only fifteen years ago there was one of the greatest Jubilees in history, the Great Jubilee of 2000, with millions of pilgrims from all over the world and - a miracle of miracles - managed to organize it without the need of the decree Franceschini. Take note. In order to change the rules governing the exercise of the right to strike, it would have been necessary to take the path of ordinary law (since there is a reserve of law) and not the decree of urgency. Not with an armored government act. Instead of getting your hands on the right to strike, we should really take care of the sector, in all its aspects of development. Italy is in first place for number of UNESCO sites, but taillight in Europe for investments. And ours is the country that has the most cultural heritage in the world. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The fact is that it is necessary to create competent staff who can best present cultural sites, so focus on the quality and preparation of staff, on the knowledge of history and on the use of at least one foreign language of the European Union, hence starting from culture. And what about trusts and contracts? The Italian cultural heritage has an opaque system of external trusts, not convenient and unclear. But your project is to demonstrate that the public is inefficient and therefore it is necessary to intervene by private subjects. You cannot go on with gifts made to friends to enrich associations, foundations, cooperatives and private companies in the sector. I am thinking only of the space that has managed to have Civita, presided over by Gianni Letta, or of initiatives that promote structures like MAXXI, where the president of the foundation is the former minister of cultural goods Melandri, or the cooperative Rear of Turin, managed by the president of the regional council Marco Laus, that you of PD know well and that paid the workers 4,50 euros per hour! What are we talking about? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] All this while thousands of young Italian graduates and experienced researchers - I know many of them personally - have to leave Italy because there are no opportunities. The explanation of vote on behalf of the 5 Star Movement on this umpteenth downward forcing of the right can only be negative. You want to weaken the right of strike for workers in the field of cultural goods, declaring that their use is essential.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u105	Conclude, please, Senator Paglini.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u106	Mr Paglini (M5S). Thank you, Madam President. Today in this House we are basically discussing essentiality. So, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, do you think that ruling a country is quite an essential public service? In a country overwhelmed by continuous scandals, in which the collusion between politics and the underworld is now intolerable, in which corruption, bribes, mafias, arrests, administrators caught with bribes in hand are on the order of the day; in a country that sinks and collapses, with a South on its knees; in a country in which the national parliamentary class sees Subsecretaries and dozens of parliamentarians investigated, in which for the first time in the history of the planet Rome, the capital, is commissary; in which the stink, the rottenness, the degradation are breathed in every corner: what essential service does this policy give to the country? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please, Senator Paglini. He's already out of time for two minutes. Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, on the concept of essentiality, we have totally different concepts. Breathe clean air, this is what we think the 5 Star Movement would be essential. Giving services to citizens and the image of a normal country, beginning with the honesty of those who govern. For this and much more, to this disgusting forcing of the right to strike, the 5 Star Movement Group will vote no. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from Senator Borioli]] Borioli (PD). Bravo! AIROLA (M5S). It's yours! There's no point in making those gestures! [[Protests from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u107	Senator Airola, don't worry.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u108	AIROLA (M5S). Shame! [[Protests from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). He's making provocative gestures! Listen to what they say! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you scream like that, I can't hear you, I don't know what you're saying. Don't make any gestures. [[Senator Lucidi's protests]] LUCIDES (M5S). They make provocative gestures! SANTANGELO (M5S). We're fucked up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You ask for the floor, I'll give it to you at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u110	You have the right to do so. [[Reiterate protests by Senator Santangelo]] Please, Senator Santangelo. You want a sanction? There is no such thing in this House. Make the request and we'll check it out. [[Protests of Senators Santangelo and Lucidi]] I don't even know what you're saying. Stop it, Senator Santangelo, I'll call you back to order once. LUCIDES (M5S). Why don't you call Senator Borioli? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Serafini, please take the floor. Serafini (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Madam President. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let Senator Serafini speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u111	The decree-law in question addresses important issues, proposes small solutions and remedies that are not adequate to defend and relaunch our artistic heritage, which is the great beauty of Italy. The issue of artistic heritage has always been present in the Italian cultural and political agenda because of the value of its link with the history of the country. In the Italian museums and libraries there is only one small part of the artistic heritage; the other passes into the cities, on the territory. [[Senator Lucidi is approaching the PD Group desks. Exchange of apostrophes between Senators Lucidi and Borioli. Comments of Senators Albano and Ginetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u112	I ask Senator Lucidi not to approach the benches threatening, because he is also sanctioned. [[Senator Santangelo's protests.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). The insult allows it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santangelo, this House is asking for the floor with politeness. SANTANGELO (M5S). No, education isn't yours. I'm not gonna get insulted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Stop it, Senator. I'm telling you, I can't even hear you without a microphone. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Take action. Give me your word. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's sanctioned for the second time. I pray everyone stay in their seats. I apologize to Senator Serafini for the interruption. Please, Senator, go ahead.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u113	Thank you, Madam President. In the Italian museums and libraries there is only one small part of the artistic heritage; the other is scattered in the cities and on the territory, sometimes in small corners of the country often unattended and unknown. It should also be said that in museums the visible part is by far a minority compared to the one preserved but not exposed due to lack of adequate space and security. In summary I express these considerations highlighting that our country has been the crossroads of peoples and cultures that have left an incredible legacy: a great empire, the Vatican, churches and monuments of our cities that contain masterpieces of inestimable value, a cultural heritage inherited from centuries of history and civilization. I want to make a comparison: all this is our perennial oil! Therefore, politics should finally address the whole issue with a law that specifically enters the whole sector. I would remind you that Italy was the first to integrate the protection of the landscape and cultural heritage into the fundamental principles of its Constitution without following up on this. In the last parliamentary term, what happened to Pompeii was exploited and a Minister was asked to resign. However, during the two and a half years of this parliamentary term, far more serious events have taken place without the competent Minister assuming his responsibilities. Of course, the subject is of great interest and we could actually talk about it for hours. Few things have been done, many still have to be done. It is not possible to legislate superficially. It would be appropriate to convene the Municipalities, metropolitan areas, Provinces and Regions in order to censor and elaborate a planned strategy, in order to fully enhance the beauties of this country. It is also necessary to assess with a practical sense the opportunities offered by private participation in the restoration or conservation of cultural heritage, as has been done in some cases. In other situations this opportunity has been refused, even if it is the cultural good that suffers from the lack of agreement in terms of further degradation, since the public does not have the possibility to intervene concretely and effectively due to the lack of sufficient financial resources. A balance between public and private interest must be found precisely to safeguard the good that is the heritage of all. In this, too, the decree-law is lacking. It is necessary to strengthen the forms of cultural heritage management involving private actors in a traditionally public sector. It should be pointed out that the decree-law must not and cannot be understood as a useful tool to always make a public cultural place accessible without remedying unsolved situations, linked to the work of the staff employed, often undersized in relation to the real needs. In the decree-law in question there is a great vacuum: the protection of the personnel who work in the management of these goods. It will therefore be appropriate to ensure adequate and continuous training for professionals, through training courses aimed at improving skills considered essential for employment, since in the so-called knowledge society learning must now develop as a permanent component of its work activity and personal development. European funds must be used to give young graduates the opportunity to present cultural projects in this area. For this reason, it would be appropriate for the Government to confirm that the financial resources related to the 2016 Stability Act and also subsequently are properly used to make the sites of national relevance functional. Let us remember that the contents of the decree-law concern public cultural goods. The code of cultural assets does not require the private subject who owns a cultural asset to make it usable by opening it to the public. Such good is not to be understood as a public service, but as a private service of social utility. Moreover, as is known to all, the decree law has been adapted as a result of the vast negative echo at international level caused by the closure to the public of the Colosseum of 18 September last. Those who have shown disagreement with the measure under consideration have specified that the interruption of the opening to the public of the amphitheatre originated not from a sudden strike, but from the convocation of a trade union assembly requested days in advance. In this case the guilty party would not be the employees, but the public administration that, in the face of a communication, did not act to avoid the inconveniences to tourists. The reference then to the essential public services indicated by Law No 146 of 1990, on the right to strike in essential public services and on the safeguarding of the rights of the constitutionally protected person, has been interpreted by some as a further forcing of the principles of necessity and urgency. Issues that can be resolved by prior dialogue between stakeholders. For all the above and for the contents of the interventions of the Group's colleagues, Forza Italia declares its vote against the decree-law in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u116	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Italy is the country that has the largest number of sites on the UNESCO list; we have heard it several times. Italy is the country where every place has at least one cultural asset that deserves a visit. Italy is the country that in the last two years has recorded an impressive growth of international tourist flows and it is the country where you come to look for art, culture, music, landscape and good food. "I'm thirsty for music" wrote Stendhal, to describe his tour between Rome, Naples and Florence; in reality he was thirsty for Italy and its beauties. Precisely because of what Italy is and represents, considering cultural goods as essential public services is a natural and almost obligatory step forward, in fact, I would say that we arrive, alas, late. The decree-law that we are about to approve definitively does not contain any attack on the workers. On the other hand, those who know that Ministry, the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism and its peripheral structures, have always found great professionalism both among employees and among managers. Our country owes them a lot. They are operators who have guaranteed, as far as possible, the protection to the valorization of our immense heritage, bearing shortages of personnel and conditions of objective difficulty that have lasted for many, too many years. The aim of the government is to keep together the rights of workers of culture with that of millions of tourists who come to Italy to satisfy that thirst of which Stendhal spoke to us and that of many citizens who ask to enjoy our cultural heritage with serenity, perhaps simply to increase their civic sense. On the other hand, the essential public service status does not provide for a reduction of health, school, transport and even culture rights. So it is not a step backwards but a conquest of civilizations as rightly defined by Minister Franceschini. A conquest of civilizations in line with the measures of this Government that has begun a great transformation on culture. Just think of the autonomy of the 20 great Italian museums, the policy of free Sunday openings and still the extraordinary investments provided for in the law of stability that we are now discussing at the Senate: additional funds for 150 million euros for 2016 and 170 million euros for 2017. The Stability Act provides for an extraordinary competition for the recruitment of 500 new officials of cultural goods, demonstrating the attention to the need to give more consistency and professionalism to the staff. For the Government, culture is the litmusol map of change in sharp discontinuity with the past, even the recent one. Culture is once again at the heart of government policy, an essential, important and strategic priority. This is a short, very urgent measure; an important measure that, starting from our history and our culture, shows us the path that we must follow in the interest of our community, in the interest of Italy, in the interest of those who admire us in the world and want to live with us our heritage. In summary, this is a small important right measure, right also for the world of work and well done Senator Ichino to remember the words of Di Vittorio uttered in the constituent Assembly. For these reasons the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the conversion into law of the decree-law under consideration. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u119	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u120	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u123	Mr Pagliari (PD). Madam President, I am speaking to pay tribute to one person but also to highlight an episode which, unfortunately, is not the only one of this nature. On 31 October last, in the courtyard of his house in Fidenza, Mr Roberto Frati was stabbed in the abdomen by an Italian of forty-three years who without reason - the investigations are in progress - attacked and seriously wounded him, to the point that he was in resuscitation and is still in very serious condition. Mr. Friars yesterday publicly stated that he forgives his aggressor and that is the reason for the homage, homage to a person who shows a truly out-of-measure sensibility. But there is another reason why I believe it is right to speak here. The attacker had been arrested on November 18, 2014 for two attempts at robbery with death threats and was then sentenced in direct to three years, with the obligation of house arrest and with the electronic bracelet. Well, despite this, this person on October 31 - less than a year later - circulated undisturbed in the streets and was therefore in a position to carry out the aggression I said. The seriousness of episodes of this nature does not need to be emphasized. It is clear to me that there is something to be considered, something on which I hope that the Ministry of Grace and Justice will carry out an appropriate investigation and that the Supreme Council of the judiciary will intervene, as far as it is within its competence. We need to protect the security of our citizens, but we also need to ensure the perception and effectiveness of the concreteness of the penalty that cannot be left to chance, otherwise social hatred is generated and nurtured, and that is not what we must have. We must be sure of the penalty, because in this way we also have the certainty of the conditions of adequate civil coexistence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, we agree.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u126	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, in my brief speech at the end of the sitting I wanted to put to the attention and sensitivity of you and also of colleagues an affair that has occupied much of the media space of recent months and has represented us at international level on the statements, repeatedly reported, of the Italian President of the Italian Football Federation. Declarations that, for the truth, create a state of discouragement and discomfort and also a remarkable embarrassment, at national level and even more at international level. My point is that I believe that many of us in this House can share. It is enough simply to recall, not a legislative rule, and not even any risk of interference by a Federation or the CONI, as properly recalled. But, as soon as we discuss and evaluate the same statute of the Football Federation, we see that, with regard to Article 2, on the fundamental principles, in an explicit, clear and unequivocal way, so we decline the role of the Italian Football Federation: the FIGC promotes the exclusion from the game of football of all forms of social discrimination, racism, xenophobia and violence. If the Italian Football Federation, like any sporting activity, must carry out a formative action, but even more educational and pedagogical, some statements reported in recent months against the Jews (with a sarcasm that is worthy of better history and other spaces, which obviously cannot be institutional ones) and towards women, in an attitude of racism and homophobia. We cannot claim that typhoseries, which are already fatal and violent in themselves, can assume civilizational behavior if this civilization is not taken as a personal pedagogy towards others and as a witness. I have also been taught that the greater the role, the greater the responsibility, and the more decisive this witness must be. I do not make partisan assessments, nor do I recall the usual excuse, which is used, of demands of power, of those who are favorable and those who are against. I use a strong and firm expression at this time: all these arguments have no homeland. They have no homeland where there is a responsibility that everyone must take when he assumes institutional responsibilities of such a high profile. They have no homeland, in Italian civilization, claims that they are offensive to women, nor to Jews, nor to homosexuals. This attitude represents an incivilization that is independent of the person, but that must still be catechized. We cannot applaud, nor can we fully agree, when, before each game, there is a demonstration that invites everyone not to adopt racist attitudes on the part of the European federation, or even less on the part of the Italian federation. [[Applause.]] I believe that someone's sensitivity can, for the truth, lead her to submit her resignation. Sometimes in life resignations must not be imposed. The nobility of discharge originates when it is spontaneous. And the embarrassment of many, at national and international level, can also be a factor that induces a spontaneous and autonomous request for resignation. This would be a way, not only to apologize, but to ennoble a Federation and also the variety of Italian fans who are forced not to take children and their children to the games anymore. But if we go to read the statute of the Italian Football Federation and the various ethical cards, everything testifies to this pedagogical and formative role to which we obviously cannot ignore. So allow me, Madam President, to express my embarrassment, disappointment and discomfort. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u127	Thank you both as Presidency and personally for your speech here, I believe, represents the whole Senate Assembly. When you assume public responsibility you have a double responsibility in anti-discrimination behaviour of all kinds. You have to be aware of that. I particularly thank you because you have represented us worthily.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u128	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-536.ana.u129	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 16 November, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.06 a.m.
