ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 26 November.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u4	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Divine Senator, for the continuation of Parliament's work in joint sitting, the sitting will still be suspended to resume at 6 p.m. DIVINE (LN-Aut). I would also ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u10	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, Italian spouses Cesare Di Fonsi and Maria Martucci are currently in Volgograd, in the Russian Federation, together with their adopted son Nikolai, of the age of three years, who is suffering from serious pathologies. For a series of bureaucratic obstacles, all overcome, the child is now officially the son of the Italian couple but cannot leave Russia without the clearance of the Commission for International Adoptions (CAI). For the past ten days, the adoptive body "The children of the rainbow" and the spouses Di Fonsi have tried in vain to get in touch with the CAI because when their visa expires they will have to return to Italy without their son, which Russia no longer recognizes as adoptable being the son of an Italian couple. Mr President, I would also like to address the representative of the Government, who is here, so that the President-in-Office of the Council can act immediately to resolve this dramatic problem, in order to allow his father, mother and child to come to Italy. [[Senator Martelli's comments.]] AIROLA (M5S). This is an end-of-session speech!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the sitting of Parliament is still taking place in a joint sitting. I therefore suspend the sitting until 6 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.35 a.m. and resumed at 18.02 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u12	The session is resumed. The next item is the debate on motions 1-00441 by Senator Puppato and other senators, 1-00477 by Senator Martelli and other senators, 1-00485 by Senator De Petris and other senators, 1-00489 by Senator Arrigoni and other senators, 1-00490 by Senator D'Alì and other senators, and 1-00491 by Senator Bonfrisco and other senators, on policies to combat climate change. I call Senator Puppato to explain motion No 441.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u13	Mr President, we know that the eyes of the world are focused on Paris and in this House we are coming to deal with the motions on climate change with a bit of pain, while the motion of which I am first signatory, which includes the signatures of many colleagues belonging to a cross-party plurality, already has more than five months of life and - it is strange to say, but that is true - five months ago the situation was certainly less deteriorating and less serious than today. Today Italy has to play an important role in the ongoing climate conference in Paris and not only for the encyclical of Pope Francis, which has made it clear to everyone that the environmental theme is not secondary also for the serious social implications it brings with it. Let us remember that this is the 21st Climate Conference; it is significant that there have been twenty previous Conferences and that none have managed to become a strong commitment to the governments of the world. Why can Italy make a difference, although it is a relatively small country compared to the more than seven billion inhabitants of the planet? Because, starting precisely from the Kyoto Summit, in 1997, our country made a commitment to achieve a reduction in climate change emissions of 6.5% compared to the 1990 figure. At the time, in fact less than twenty years ago, it was not well received by industrial companies and many political forces of this country, the fact that Italy had taken on a reduction of one and a half points higher than the average of the other countries, just over 50, which had aggregated, in that of Kyoto, and had decided to change their industrial and transport policies to implement the level of energy efficiency in their countries. This percentage of reduction seemed then an absolutely futuristic hypothesis. Well, today, after about twenty years, despite the crisis, we find ourselves with GDP increased by 45% and we also record a 21% reduction in emissions into the atmosphere, which leads Italy to have already substantially achieved the objectives set out in the Europe 2020 strategy. I do not say this because it is consolatory and in the course of the illustration of the motion that we have undersigned we will say what are according to us the criticalities and how we would like the country, in an even more coherent way, to carry out policies of environmental efficiency and therefore of authentic respect for the planet. I say this because, when we read today that we expect, from emerging countries and the world's poor and devastated countries, a demand that ranges from 30 to 60 percent more energy, we can happily demonstrate that, over a relatively short period of time, Italy has reached 66 percent of positive value compared to the 1990 figure. This means that we can afford to work well, together with the other 191 countries that will be present in Paris, to be effective and efficient in relation to environmental policies. I would like to turn to another positive point, which is important and which we would like to welcome, first of all, for the adoption of a motion, possibly common, to be presented to our Head of Government and to Mr Galletti for the Paris Conference. We said that during the various Conferences of the Parties (COPs) which took place - for example, the last in Copenhagen, or the last in Cancun - we had a difficulty about the real will to be able to account for the commitments that were made. Well, to date, 148 countries have already submitted binding commitments. These are countries that clearly fail to reach the 2 degrees centigrade goal as a maximum limit of global warming, a goal that we have set ourselves to make sustainable - although completely sustainable is not even with the 2 degrees centigrade - with the aim of avoiding desertification of important areas such as Africa, North Europe and North Asia, and ensuring that there is agricultural sustainability for the resident populations, which are growing on the planet earth. What do we need now? We have said this: to develop intelligent policies. It's not just lights. In 2015, as a country, we reversed a ten-year trend: for the first time since 2005, we had an increase in fossil energy for electricity; economic growth put on track 200,000 more cars; there is a recovery in the real estate market; we had the hottest summer you remember; there is a sharp decline in electricity production from hydroelectric, wind and solar. Moreover, after having been, in 2011, a leading country in the world with a power installed from renewable sources of 11,000 megawatts, we passed, in 2014, to only 750 megawatts, which means that, evidently, we have to return to increase the renewable energies that our country can put in field I remember then that 64 between companies and business associations have signed an appeal asking the institution of carbon price, that is the carbon tax. This means that we no longer have the environmentalism of the past, which simply demands to proceed with an economic and fiscal assessment that highlights the need to burden the industrial or otherwise productive realities that still intend to benefit from fossil sources. Rather, we have a transversal and general demand for a policy that distinguishes businesses, civil realities and the virtuous Municipalities from those who are not. Global emissions have increased by 60% over the last 20 years. We know that carbon dioxide works as a filter: solar radiation arrives and certain gases hold the reflected light from the wavelength of the infrared. To a certain extent, carbon dioxide was beneficial because it also interrupted the glacial ages. But since 1990 the amount of carbon dioxide has increased by 66 percent and today we have exceeded, since 2013, 400 parts per million. We are talking about a small strip of space called atmosphere, only 1,000 kilometers long, which compared to the dimensions of the universe is a breath, a nothingness, but it must be taken into account because it is what allows us to exist as planet earth. Well, we cannot afford to act like frogs, who do not jump out of the pots when the fire is lit because they do not notice the danger. Our genetic heritage must put us in a position to conceive epochal mutations with dimensions and speeds adapted to climate change that, due to their extreme strength and violence, ask us to change our mental mechanism. We can no longer afford to continue to spend 500 billion a year, according to OECD sources, to contribute to fossil sources, nor to reach the 1 900 billion we have achieved overall for compensation of a different nature depending on the withdrawal of the stock of fossil sources. The emissions trading system (ETS) has never been able alone, with only $7 for polluting emissions, to achieve a bold policy for binding targets. We must start from what Einstein said, that every crisis is an opportunity and an extraordinary factor of development. Culture and knowledge are the real drivers of change, participation in the policy of the best is therefore capable of an example. With this motion, we ask that we no longer allow the world to put a child who is born today in Beijing or Shanghai in a position to smoke 40 cigarettes a day, such as those that actually smoke because of the massive environmental pollution. We must anticipate that the circular economy will become the most convenient, the smartest and the most capable of activating innovation and research, precisely because man has shown himself capable of doing so. We must prevent the loss of a quantity of woods which in itself would be able to reduce the 400 parts per million we have of carbon dioxide relative to the air. We must therefore proceed in three directions. First, at global level, binding targets such as what the IPCC, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, has defined as a minimum target, i.e. two degrees Celsius of global warming. We must also ensure that Italy asks the rest of the world to apply the carbon tax to finance renewables, efficiency and research. We need to define a real road map of decarbonisation, from the electricity sector to the transport sector; to provide economic values adapted to the mitigations and technological development of the countries that have suffered our well-being so far, often being responsible for not even 1% of the emission quotas and being unfortunately charged with charges for a much greater percentage. It is necessary to reach and overcome, even in those countries, the environmental gaps that have been created. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you should finish. PUPPATE (PD). It would be appropriate to reduce incentives and subsidies to fossil fuels until they are eliminated, as well as to promote natural gas and, as far as the interior of Italy is concerned, to make the incentive policies already implemented permanent. I am referring to policies for the energy efficiency of buildings and business innovations, which have already been promoted with the latest financial support, which should be improved and increased with taxation to further correct our economy. Finally, I would like to mention the recovery of the soil. We must limit, until we cancel, further waterproofing with additional economic burdens, by proposing laws for zeroing the consumption of agricultural land, by promoting urban regenerations, reforestation promotions and urban green areas, by their ability to offer quality of life and to absorb polluting dusts. I believe that we must beware of two things here today: hopelessness and hope without foundation. We can show that, rationally but also humanly, with the sensibilities that belong to us, we are able to put together a product that is a real commitment for Italy within the COP21 in Paris. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u14	I call Senator Nugnes to explain motion No 477.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u15	Mr President, I am pleased to hear these words: they appear to be of another majority. The authorities have then kindly sent out some orders: old people and children must not leave the house, schools must suspend recreation in the open air, employees must not stop by the windows, those who are forced to leave the house must do so for the time strictly necessary. The skewers have not been banned this time: the barbecue ban has been in force for two years. From a Chaoyang skyscraper, for a few hours, a sheet was displayed with the words: "Selling vacuum apartments for newborns" is replaced by "Selling vacuum apartments for newborns." This passage is unfortunately not taken from a science fiction tale by Asimov, but it is communications from Beijing, a superpower struggling with the order "tap yourself at home." A country where pollution is 15-20 times beyond the limits that the World Health Organization considers compatible with human life. But Europe cannot believe it is safe: every year in Europe smog kills over 490,000 people, and fossil fuels are responsible. This certifies the report of the European Environment Agency released today and Italy - guess what - holds the record of the victims in Europe: 84,000 per year. This is the catastrophic scenario, just in the days of COP21 in Paris, where everyone says they are worried, but not everyone says they are available to binding commitments. But in order to finally clear the field from the illusion that climate change is a problem that does not concern us immediately here and now, but that will concern only the future generations and the extreme areas of the globe, the islands of the Pacific and the sub-Saharans, let's think a little about migratory phenomena, for example, the so-called environmental refugees, who so much depend on climate change, which has already caused for decades of forced migration. It is becoming a global emergency and, according to the UN, there will be 200 million environmental refugees in 2050. Natural disasters produce migrations with numbers greater than or equal to those caused by armed conflicts and political persecutions. And certainly also those wars, armed conflicts and terrorism itself, with a small force of reasoning, can be to some extent related to climate change, because they depend to a great extent on the pursuit of the main cause of climate change, the centuries-old dependence on hydrocarbons from which we do not want, we cannot, get out. So I would like to say that at least three of our greatest social fears and current political concerns are closely related to our dependence on oil: smog (which the World Health Organization has declared a very potent carcinogen), migration and terrorism. Not forgetting, of course, all others such as extreme climatic events. In the last five years, i.e. since 2010, our country has recorded a growing number of extreme weather events, floods, landslides, floods (112 events in 80 municipalities), 34 floods, 38 cases of serious damage to infrastructure, 33 days of stoppage to subways and urban trains, 8 damage to historical heritage, 43 days of electric blackouts, 139 deaths. It has occurred in recent years that sometimes only one weather event has discharged to the ground amounts of precipitation that normally occur in several weeks. We also think about the loss of biodiversity; it has been estimated that one in ten species could extinguish from here to 2100 and this is also an invaluable economic capital. We must also take into account the serious economic crisis caused by the repercussions on the community of the costs of pollution as well as the problems for our agricultural economy caused by the desertification of our land. Clearly the dependence on hydrocarbons is the main, although not the only (see intensive farms), cause of climate change and as a result of almost all our current concerns and emergencies. It seems, however, that some political decision-makers, Italian but also European and American, do not think so, certainly without the proclamations. That is why we are only talking about the problem a great deal, but we are never really dealing with it with the necessary concrete actions. Italy will have signed and shared the resolution of the COP20 and then completely forget it, giving concrete acts, decrees and legislative provisions, support and facilities always to the old model of development, the one that had just publicly abjured itself in international conferences. Should I repeat again here today, now, of the unlocking Italy of drills and incinerators? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Or exemptions on excise duties or costs in bills for oil and gas lobby facilities, and incentives for more energy-intensive companies to keep them competitive? I must say here again that in Italy those who consume more energy pay less and that there is no economic differentiation between those who supply fossil or renewable sources. And that the photovoltaic renewables have been sunk down, do we have to repeat that? It is because I remember that due to precise legislative measures from 2011 to 2014 the photovoltaic and wind power plants installed in Italy have collapsed: it has gone from 10,663 to 733 megawatts in 2014 and the prospects of 2015 are even worse, and together has collapsed an expanding industry. Meanwhile, we are busy around this limit of the two degrees, below which we would like to contain the global warming by 2050, but we all know that the scientific literature of recent years, headed by the meteologist Henderson, tells us that two degrees are a daring goal because they represent the boundary between dangerous and very dangerous damage, and that being under the two degrees may not be enough, which we also said last year and the year before. Staying below two degrees is a goal that may not even be achieved and with non-binding, or non-binding targets for all, will not be achieved and may also be insufficient. That doesn't seem like a good way to proceed. But just a few hours after the start of the COP21 conference in Paris, the European Commission is convinced that the global agreement will be reached with binding commitments and that it will move on to a dynamic five-year review process. This could be a solution if you really get there. Meanwhile, however, the US is opposed to a binding agreement, and Japan is still under pressure that emerging countries cannot be forced to moderate the use of the most polluting technologies and the use of hydrocarbons. Although there is consensus from more than 190 countries, even from many developing countries, this will not be enough if Japan and the US do not make binding commitments. It is necessary that action in Paris be comprehensive and binding, immediately. Global warming has been established since the 1950s: the warming of the oceans, the reduction of the Arctic cap, the rising of the seas, the loss of arable land, extreme weather phenomena (such as Hurricane Katrina, which cost $105 billion). But Obama himself, who admitted in September 2015 that climate change is much faster than expected and that in these hours he beats his chest, accepting the responsibility of the great repentant polluter, does not accept binding commitments. The latest report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change certifies an average temperature increase of 0.81 degrees. From 2000 to 2010 every year we have put an extra billion tons of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. Our carbon budget has been calculated in just seventeen years. It has been evaluated by the IPCC that at these rates for 2100 we will have an increase in temperature between 3.7 and 5 degrees, but it could also be higher, because of that domino effect, because those same elements that are at this moment of the bollards of overheating, exceeded a certain threshold, could become multipliers. Let us think, for example, of the forests that, when forest fires are triggered, increase overheating, the oceans that, with acidification, become themselves a reason for overheating or melting the cap. This is called the runaway effect, which is the acceleration of what were mitigating elements. I wonder: if these binding commitments will also come, if you will also listen to ENEA, which says that it is technically possible and therefore politically and economically necessary to convert 90% of energy production to renewable sources, what will our country do? Will you be happy to have done the job well on renewables at 27%? And then he will be back in line for the next European sanctions if the agreements are binding and if we are forced to implement them? A real carbon tax against the failure of emissions trading, i.e. the exchange of greenhouse gas emission allowances (which includes among the beneficiaries even the most energetic companies), or the renunciation of direct and indirect incentives to fossil sources, which amount to about 12 billion per year, how will they see us positioned? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u16	I say that Parliament is convened tomorrow, Wednesday, 2 December, at 7 p.m. for the vote on the election of three judges of the Constitutional Court. The call will begin with the senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u17	Mr President, a note of regret: the Senate, unlike what happened in the House, holds this debate on the motions for a climate conference when the climate conference has already begun. However, since the Conference and its work will last many days, we do not, of course, give up hope that the contribution of our motions will also be in some way decisive. So I come to the first point, because by making a first evaluation, precisely because the Paris Conference has begun and the most important Heads of State have already spoken, we can begin to identify the path of these two weeks. In fact, we must also say that there have been some positive signs and also the commitment of some countries: I would also like to mention the Premier of New Zealand, who made a very clear and challenging argument saying that if the $500 billion of fossil fuel subsidies were simply converted and moved all to support energy efficiency and renewables, this operation alone could produce a net reduction of 10% of climate-altering emissions. Therefore, in the light of some positive signals from some Heads of State, Obama's assumption of responsibility and also some positive statements from the Chinese Premier, alas the concern that we all have is that there is no binding global agreement, but that there is a risk of being established on voluntary commitments of individual countries, perhaps verifiable also in 2018. This also applies to the United States, because Obama certainly represents a reversal of the trend in the fight against climate change in the past, but, while recognising the very strong responsibility of the United States, for precisely the delay in dealing with the fight against climate change and also the pollution rate (and thus also with respect to CO2 production), Obama also renounces the idea of a binding agreement, perhaps because it will have to deal with the opposition, i.e. with a Chamber of Representatives with a republican majority, so obviously in the Senate it would be difficult to approve this agreement. It is in fact - and this is the political fact on which we must reflect - that if we move towards an agreement made up of voluntary commitments, although strong and subject to short-term scrutiny and even assuming responsibilities, however, we are not going in the right direction. This must be clarified. I appeal to the Government because the cuts in climate-altering emissions envisaged by individual countries are not enough, because all those voluntary commitments in reality would only produce a possible reduction in the temperature increase from four to three degrees, so far above the safety limit, which - as is known - is below two degrees. Yet everyone in these weeks, from the scientific community to the decision-makers, knows that the Paris Conference can be the last beach to really reverse the trend. This is the point on which everyone must take responsibility and it is the reason for the climate marches that have taken place in all world capitals, the mobilization of many associations and movements that have asked and strongly ask (it is the first point of our motion and also of others) for a binding agreement, because only clear, predictable and binding agreements for countries can allow them to approach that security limit. If this does not happen - this is the danger with reference to the idea of leaving Paris only with voluntary commitments - or if someone will not comply with these commitments - then arriving also at our country - it will be absolutely impossible to prevent the warming trend. It will get out of hand and it will be the catastrophe. Just think of what is happening in the United States: the great drought in California and the floods and hurricanes on the other side. We must not forget the problems we have: the Mediterranean area, as we are told in the report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), is one of the most vulnerable. The great movements, which already take place and which we point to as one of the points on which we must seriously reflect and for which we must make commitments for environmental refugees, tell us that we are on a road that is really in danger of not returning. We need the binding agreement; we need not only a movement from the top of the political decision-makers, but also a set of positive objectives. I am thinking, for example, not only of reducing emissions, but also of positively defining the energy efficiency rates to be achieved and the share of renewable energy. On this - let us be clear - the commitments to 2030, which the European Union has made, can be more ambitious: they can safely reach 45% and more in 2030. The objective, which could be achieved safely, to have 100% renewable energy in 2050 is ambitious, but we all believe that it could be achieved with appropriate policies and commitments and serious. The process must come from above but also from below, and I believe that it has also started with many good practices, many possibilities also to experiment, research and produce innovation. Then there is the question of the issues, which was also highlighted by the positions of the Indian Premier; I am referring to the relationship between rich and poor countries (the former obviously produced the current situation) and the issue of the 100 billion. I now come to Italy. Yesterday we also saw some challenging statements from President Renzi. I say this to the government: we were also a little surprised because President Renzi gave directions and made commitments on cutting emissions; he announced that there are four billion in the law of stability for the fight against climate change. Frankly, I ask the government to tell us where they are because we couldn't find them. Then there is the point of the points: he boasted of the primacy of the photovoltaic of Italy, but this primacy was not achieved thanks to this Government. On the contrary, this Government has put in place continuous and constant obstacles to renewable energies, so much so that in this year we have had a net decrease and has made a total reversal regarding the choices on energy policies adopting, with the unblocking Italy, the policy of drilling. In Paris he also exalted ENEL and ENI, but while ENEL is carrying on some element of change, the ENI continues on the same path as fossils. We are not talking about energy policy, with a cut on renewables, but a constancy, once again, after the battle of the CIP6 of many years ago, in support of fossils. Commitment and responsibility mean not only good speeches in Paris or just motions, but a real commitment to change the issue of issues, which is the energy policy of this Government. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group and Senator D'Alì]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u18	I call Senator Arrigoni to explain motion No 489.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Undersecretary, I would like to say at once that it is a bit paradoxical to discuss today and tomorrow these motions on policies to combat climate change, when the Paris Climate Conference has already begun and has already come to life. It was certainly necessary to discuss this before, but so much so, we are at stake and therefore we are dealing with the issue that is absolutely not secondary and obvious. The Climate Conference was a long-awaited event for many, including the inevitable pseudo-pacifist and environmental storms, which on Sunday in the French capital demonstrated against the state of emergency and its restrictions on freedom wanted by Hollande for the warning of terrorism and against the climate conference itself, shamefully devastating in Place de la République the memorial dedicated to the victims of Islamist terrorism on 13 November. Their infamous taffle demonstration was an offense to the victims of the attacks and an insult to the thousands of law enforcement officers committed to ensuring the safety of the citizens. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The Paris COP21 Conference sees a very high participation of countries of the international community both those industrialized and those emerging and developing. Everyone shares - and who wouldn't? - the objective of containing and reducing carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere to combat global warming and climate change, containing by the end of the century the average temperature increase within two degrees from pre-industrial levels. The alarm launched by the Intergovernmental Panel of experts on climate change, the so-called IPCC, is to be taken seriously: if we do not intervene quickly, climate changes will produce serious, extensive and irreversible effects on the population and ecosystems of the whole world, determining the increase in the frequency and intensity of extreme phenomena, such as drought (with desertifications), such as typhoons, floods and tornados, events that have long been felt in our country. These are the impacts that humanity must face, due both to natural causes, which have occurred several times in the past in the history of the planet, and to the action of man. With regard to mitigation policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions and adaptation policies aimed at minimizing the impacts of climate change, there is the awareness of taking on much more important and more significant commitments than those made at EU policy level with the so-called climate-energy package 20-20-20, then updated in October 2014 with the EU Directive 27, with the 2030 Climate-Energy Package. These European protocols represented the natural evolution of the Kyoto Protocol, which had a natural deadline at the end of 2012, an international but voluntary agreement, which was signed in December 1997, at the Kyoto Conference, entered into force only in February 2005, after the ratification of the Protocol by Russia. The efforts made in recent years by the countries of the European Union have been important for the progressive reduction of carbon dioxide emissions, despite the growth of gross domestic product. However, these efforts have little impact on the global climate if not accompanied by the efforts of the countries most responsible for increasing greenhouse gas emissions. We say this because in general enthusiasm it is not at all obvious that at the end of the Paris Conference a comprehensive agreement is reached with binding targets for all, especially by those States which have shown themselves to be negative in relation to international agreements in the past and which are already making appropriate distinctions. We would also like to stress that the pursuit of climate change objectives cannot be without a serious analysis of their economic and financial sustainability, especially with regard to the impact on production systems. This need is all the more evident in view of the international macroeconomic scenarios that Italian and European companies see competing with those of other less committed geographical areas and, therefore, with less burden to bear so far in pursuing the objectives of the fight against climate change. This is why we need to adopt strategies that establish a level playing field for companies at international level, but also flexibility strategies that avoid the loss of competitiveness for European companies, with the risk of causing them to relocate, resulting in a reduction in employment (already precarious in our country). The considerations put forward are more valid for our country, characterized by a production system with the prevalence of small and medium-sized enterprises. With the motion submitted, the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group asks the Government to engage in several requests, many of which are common to the other motions submitted. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that the agreement to be promoted must be global, durable (i.e. with long-term objectives), transparent (i.e. with verifiable and comparable commitments and results) and binding on emission reduction, with realistic targets to be met by all acceding countries. It is essential to promote investments for the development of clean transport and sustainable mobility systems, by promoting investments in technological innovation, for the efficiency and energy saving of both public and private buildings and installations, as well as for the research and development of renewable energy sources for the production of electricity and heat. To this end, it is necessary to consolidate incentive mechanisms consistent with the most advanced European experience (but within a certain regulatory framework to protect sector investment) and, on the other hand, to launch initiatives to remove incentives and subsidies, direct and indirect, to the use of fossil fuels. In addition to the pursuit of these objectives, we call on the Commission to take on board the following commitments, which are considered significant by the North League. Firstly, in the negotiations, legitimate national interests must be fully respected, requiring that the Italian industrial and technological experience of excellence be valued and asking, in the interests of the Italian industries especially called for a substantial investment commitment, for an adequate possibility of using flexible mechanisms, as well as measures tailored to the needs of small enterprises and the relationship between costs and benefits. Secondly, it is important to allow freedom to the countries of the European Union in determining its specific mix between energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy, in order to achieve the objectives that will come from the COP21 Conference in Paris. Finally, to conclude, we cannot miss the demand for the best investment for our future, namely to provide specific courses of study in schools of every order and degree to give students information on the current climate change, their causes and potential effects, as well as on behaviour, even individual, in favour of saving natural resources. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u20	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the members of the European Association of Law Students of the Trento section, who are following the work of the Senate from the gallery. Thank you for your visit. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u21	Mr President, my voice, as always in this House, will perhaps appear outside the choir. Senator De Petris and Senator Arrigoni, it is not appropriate to regret the fact that we are debating today, when our Government has already left for days for the Paris Conference; perhaps it is better so, because, if precise indications had come out of this House, they would have been regularly disregarded, as the President of the Council does, when he makes commitments - committing himself through the country - but then does not follow the direction of Parliament. Paris last beach: I am sorry that Senator De Petris, who has a twenty-year experience of these conferences, who have always proved useless and unproductive and that of course they will be confirmed in time, because already in itself the fact that it is discussed at an international conference among representatives of 180 countries suggests that an overall agreement on anything can never be reached. It would be much cheaper and wiser for these things to be discussed in the UN, perhaps in continuous and programmatic conferences, and for any agreement to be reached there. Mine, however, is a voice outside the choir because I believe that this topic is a bit the result of a fair of misunderstandings and contradictions, but also hypocrisies. The first misunderstanding is based on the fact that one has always tried to do - or always has - of all herbs a bundle. Pollution gases and greenhouse gases have always been considered, together with CO2, as a single negative component of emissions into the atmosphere. They lost time and money - a lot! - with consequent limits to production development, in order to pursue the chimera that, through limitations of CO2 emissions, could change the trend of climate change in the world. This is another misunderstanding: but do we really think it possible that climate change, in a land that has undergone four ice ages and, over centuries, enormous climate change, can be determined solely and exclusively by human activity? However, this misunderstanding serves many policies which the UN and these conferences seek to promote internationally and which are determined by unreliable consultants. Because the UN uses only the IPCC and not other scientific advice that they can also have... [[Brusio from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u22	Senator Candiani, please: I understand that Senator Arrigoni's intervention is an event, but east modus in rebus. Please, Senator D'Alì. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Why does the UN continue to follow the direction of an organization that has been crossed in past years by very strong suspicions of conflict of interest of its main representatives who, however, have remained the same? Because, in the end, it is better to emphasize the problem and not solve it. I do not insist on the misunderstandings I have mentioned, because the natural causes of climate change are far more powerful than possible additional anthropic on them, as evidenced by the fact that an eruption such as that of the Icelandic volcano of a couple of years ago is enough to make the rate of CO2 rise enormously in the atmosphere, and certainly not because of man's effect, because it was a natural phenomenon that put in atmosphere quantities of CO2 far greater than those put by industrial activities on the planet. Then there is the fair of hypocrisies: all declare themselves ready for who knows what sacrifices, which then in reality are made only by those skirts who sign commitments that affect CO2 emissions in the atmosphere for minimal percentages, almost as a telephone prefix. If these treaties are not signed by India, China, Brazil, Mexico and South Africa - in practice almost all the countries of the so-called BRICS - as well as the United States of America, what effect can they have on the atmosphere, assuming that the scientific premise is indicative towards these solutions? And what hypocrisy does a President of the United States represent to us who made his electoral campaign eight years ago largely on these issues, then failed them for seven years and today he tells us that he regretted it and, just one year after the end of his second and no longer extendable mandate, that perhaps we should sign these agreements? What hypocrisy is manifested by the Italian Government, which continues to feed the promotion of the activities of introspection and search for hydrocarbons at sea and on land and then says that it wants to overcome the policy of oil pollution? What hypocrisy comes to us from the Italian Government, which does nothing to stop the marine pollution resulting from urban and industrial discharges along our coasts and which nourishes and bears - perhaps it does not feed, but certainly bears - a situation such as that of the Gulf of Naples, which has become one of the maximum cloaches of the Mediterranean? These hypocrisies, I believe, are even more harmful than the failure to reach any agreements, because they feed the debate on high, strong and unattainable issues and help to put dust under the carpet. We ask that real and concrete policies be put in place that are useful to the quality of life of each of us and of all the citizens of the planet, but through things that can be done and that have certain effects on our quality of life. I am thinking first of all of deforestation: why do we not reach a firm and precise international agreement on the blocking of forest destruction? We also know very well the economic terms that this may require; we know very well that Brazilian farmers, in order not to deforest, demand compensation of 40 dollars a year for loss of income. The same could happen in the equatorial forests of Africa and in all other areas of the world where there is daily deforestation of hundreds and hundreds hectares of land. Depollution of the seas is another absolutely improbable intervention. In this case too we know how much it costs to equip the large metropolis with really effective purifiers, which continually admit pollutants into the sea without restraint and without any control. This happens in the Mediterranean itself, which, apart from the quoted episode of the Gulf of Naples, at the level of many coastal metropolis of North Africa is becoming a puddle without hope of survival. Why not invest these very considerable resources that invest in the desire to combat climate change in major energy efficiency operations in buildings and transport? In essence, we are calling for concrete action, which is actually practicable and with a clear result on the cost-benefit criterion. My friends, with this two percent, with these two or three degrees oscillating, at each international conference they feel all the colors: once they serve within the century, once they serve by 2050, once the day after tomorrow we have a degree and a half. They are absolutely unreliable data, but above all they are unreliable in the cost-benefit result. We are going to face enormous costs if possible, without having the certainty of benefits, while the same resources - as I said - could be used in absolutely feasible and absolutely useful works. We have already heard that India and China have emerged from a possible binding global agreement. Surely in the next few hours this will happen for the other emerging countries, who rightly claim their right to development, just as the Western countries have done without limits and without constraints in previous years. So we ask the Italian Government not to sign any binding commitments unless there is a contextual commitment from the vast majority of countries that emit not only CO2, but above all polluting gases in the atmosphere. It cannot be us Europe and even less us Italy, who represent a small portion of this Europe (at world level we reach figures that do not exceed telephone prefixes), to commit ourselves to sacrifice and to follow our specific commitments if others do not do so too. As this will not be feasible, once again the Paris Conference, like all the others that preceded it - such as those in Copenhagen or Lima - will be a fair of hypocrisies or declarations of intent. Therefore - I repeat - in our opinion the practice of international climate conferences, which often lead to disturbances or problems of public order and to a series of drawbacks, could be set aside, resolving much more practically and profitably issues in the strictly UN context, adopting in that forum - as is customary for so many other events that concern the world - resolutions that can be truly useful to the planet.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u23	[[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u24	I call Senator Zizza to explain motion No 491.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u25	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to stress the positive signal which represents the timing of the motions on climate change at the very important time of the opening of the COP21 negotiations in Paris. This conference is of crucial importance, as it must lead to an ambitious and hopefully binding agreement for the challenge of climate change, which will have to apply to all countries. As a Group of Conservatives and Reformists, we felt the need to make a motion to draw the attention of the Government to a number of key points that our President-in-Office of the Council cannot help but defend in Paris. The climate emergency is a dramatic reality, the consequences of which are no longer relegatable to a distant future, but risk being already visible in just over half a century. We are going towards an overheating of the planet: scientific data indicate, at present, a overheating of four degrees Celsius, which will have irreversible consequences for the planet and, above all, for mankind. In the absence of effective measures, among the possible forecasts for the coming decades, it seems inevitable that storms and floods will be struck with ever greater intensity on the coastal areas of the world, causing the displacement of millions of people, while the warming of the climate will change the forest and the humid zones, causing damage, sometimes irreversible, to the entire ecosystem. UN scientists, climate change experts, warn that it is still possible to remedy this. But in order to avoid the climate crisis, action must be taken within a few years, reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 95% by 2050, in order to contain global warming at least below the critical threshold of two degrees Celsius. The real critical point will be in the post-conference phase, when it comes to the practical implementation of the measures that will be the result of the agreement in individual countries. According to the analysis of temperature data, made by the Institute of Atmospheric and Climate Sciences, Italy is warming up faster, with an average above that of the global average of the entire planet. These figures are yet another confirmation that climate change is no longer a hypothesis for the future, but concern Italy today, with frequent clouds, destruction, deaths and damage to agriculture. In 2014 we had many floods. We remember, among the events that more easily come to memory, risking certainly to forget some, those happened in Genoa, Modena, Senigallia, Chiavari and Piacenza. Agricultural production has been severely affected and producers of honey, chestnuts, oil and other crops have been severely affected by climate change and severe showers. It should also be remembered that climate change has a strong impact on migration flows. According to the report entitled 'Migrations and climate change', from 2008 to 2014, more than 157 million people were forced to change the way they live and move around the world. According to the European Union, non-action against climate change has a very high environmental, economic and social cost. In our country many initiatives have been developed for the prevention and study of climate change; among them we remember above all the Euro-Mediterranean Centre, founded in 2005, which contributed to the definition of the national strategy for the adaptation of climate change. The Centre itself represents Italy in the UN Intergovernmental Group on Climate Change, and is a unique in the panorama of Italian research. With this in mind, the most urgent measures that the Government will have to take are those aimed at encouraging greater responsibility for sectors other than industry, which make a decisive contribution to emissions (transport, agriculture, housing and many others). In this context, on the one hand, the existing industrial heritage should be exploited by promoting, in all sectors of production, the adoption of advanced technologies that increase environmental compatibility and, above all, production processes; on the other hand, new production activities should be developed in sectors more closely linked to the green economy. At the same time, the review of the rules on excise duties on energy products should be encouraged, ensuring that Italian citizens are informed of the tax revenues and their intended use, introducing a carbon-based taxation, with the necessary programmed graduality and in a way proportional to the actual development and especially commercial use of renewable energy sources. It is also necessary to support economically those national initiatives - including private ones - aimed at developing research programmes aimed at the study of climate change, through the implementation of models of the climate system and its interactions with society and the environment. In order to achieve these objectives, favourable conditions must be created for businesses, including by encouraging investment and by rewarding virtuous environmental practices both in the public and in the private sector: from redevelopment of buildings to adaptation of production and industrial systems. Those who decide to ignore or challenge the clearly stated data endanger all of us, our children and our grandchildren and, above all, the future of the world. It is necessary to act immediately. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u26	I declare the debate open. Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u27	Mr President, before entering the subject of motions, thought must go to the context in which the International Conference is taking place: in a Paris strongly raped by ISIS terrorism; in a city which, in the early stages of the Climate Conference, saw the uncivilised devastation of the no-globals, anarchists and other subjects, who did not even have a minimum of care in devastating even the places that want to remind the whole world of the Bataclan disaster. This must make us think a lot: the 21st Climate Conference is part of an international and social context of absolute particularity. I want to make the best use of the time available to me. We must focus a great deal on a new cultural approach. Homo faber fortunae suae : this sentence goes, in my opinion, reinterpreted again; man must not be and is no longer, surely, the master of the world; at most he is the administrator of the world and its resources. As a good administrator he has a duty to use what he has found wisely and wisely, handing it over to future generations in an integral and untouched way, perhaps also managing to improve it. Any argument that deals with environmental matters, and therefore the climate issue, must bear in mind the principle of environmental justice, which must be based on two main pillars: the first is the relationship between man and nature and the second is the principle of fair and sustainable access to resources. As for the first, man within a few hundred years, with the phenomena related to his activity has profoundly modified the environment in which he lives; anthropization today is the dominant characteristic of the entire globe. The principle of fair and sustainable access is to underline the absolute right of all peoples to access a number of fundamental elements: land, water, air, the resources necessary for their livelihood without difference of race, religion and census. These are the principles that we must hold firm. As far as the rest is concerned, we know the efforts made under COP21, we know the successes in the fight for environmental protection and the reduction of emissions, but above all we are aware of failures. We know that it will be extremely difficult to maintain the increase in temperatures for the next decades by two degrees, but we cannot afford the current trend, which would lead from here to the end of the century the temperature of the globe to 4-5 degrees Celsius of increase. This would be absolutely devastating and would change absolutely no longer repairable and bearable the environment in which we live. And it would result: a huge crisis characterised by, among other things, a social and economic crisis; a decrease in vital habitats and food resources; new poverty, huge expansion of so-called climate refugees (which today are quantified by international agencies in about 230-250 million citizens), which, among other things, today have no recognised legal status and which, in turn, feed the basin of migration to an extent. This teaching comes not only from the agencies and from absolutely shared observations, but is reiterated with great strength and authority also by the masterly lesson of the encyclical "Laudato si' of the Holy Father, who builds on these principles a complex reasoning, but who in the end must make us reflect on the great hypocrisy of the time in which we live, which leads us to address these kinds of issues, but above all leads us not to be consequent. We know that, with the current trend, the budget for increasing emissions that we should be able to manage until the end of the 21st century will probably run out between 2040 and 2042. We know that China is moving towards increases that will lead to a 58% increase in emissions in the next few years. The USA is likely to increase by 33% in this way, and the European Union itself can increase by 20%. We cannot allow this at all, but we are also aware of the enormous difficulties and risks this important international meeting in Paris is taking today. It is just yesterday's statements from China and India. According to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, environmental development and protection must go hand in hand. "Justice wants that, with the little coal that we can still burn safely, developing countries can grow," wrote Modi on the "Finncial Times." But we are also concerned about the statements made by the Chinese President and other countries. I would like to mention, for example, Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe, who pointed his finger at Western countries, considered rich, cheap and heavy. Supports the President of Zimbabwe: It is illogical that the rich countries not only show themselves to be poor in providing poor countries with the means to combat global warming, but that they are even overwhelmed in wanting to burden us with the task of tidying up the mess that they themselves have combined. I shall begin, Mr President, with the conclusions. We, of course, as a country, are doing our duty; we have done it and we will do it even more. Parliament, on this motion, which was born thanks to the work of my colleague Mr Puppato and all the members of the 13th European Parliament. Commission, it provides a basis for reflection and also a series of indications to our Government and our Minister for the Environment, who has worked very well with us. We, from European countries, as well as for centuries have given important signals for civilization, freedom, democracy of the whole globe, must also look for a high lesson in the fight against new poverty and in the area of climate change and environmental protection. We cannot end up in greed and selfishness at all. The detail of the motion has been well illustrated by my colleague Mr Puppato and in his speech we fully recognize ourselves; but it is only with a change of pace and with a systemic cultural approach of governments, but above all of peoples, that we can face and probably try to overcome this challenge. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator D'Ascola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u29	Mr. President, I'm going to steal a few seconds. The first climate conference in Rio was twenty-three years ago. What was it for? Putting the theme of global warming on the agenda. Before - and even after - it was spoken of as a crowd. The Conference in progress, that of Paris, in the city the theater of the most ruthless attack on our civilization, for what can it serve? Probably saying, now or never. Obama used evocative phrases and I want to read some of them. "I have seen with my own eyes" - said the American President - "in Alaska the sea that swallows villages, the burning tundra, the melting glaciers. It is an anticipation of the future that we prepare for our children: Submersible nations, abandoned cities, fields that no longer give crops, new wars and rivers of desperate refugees. Words. I do not underestimate, unlike Senator D'Alì, these steps forward, if not in the action, at least in the conscience; but I am not convinced - I must say - that they say ecologists, that throw alarms, that the same motions presented in this Senate can be decisive. On the contrary, it seems to me to see that consciousness breaks apart from the limits that characterize our civilization and the dangers that lie upon it risk rather becoming an alibi, a sort of false consciousness that fears apocalypse and is content, then, with non-solving remedies. Every Chinese makes six tons of carbon dioxide a year; each of us Europeans 13 tons; every American even 22. The key is here, in these data: it is our model of development that causes global warming. We should remember motions and our ecological conscience when we discuss and vote on the law of stability, and not at the command, when it comes to washing our consciences and then things resume as before. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u30	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u31	Mr President, we are always talking about climate and the world. Basically, the world is nothing more than a wonderful spaceship that travels through space surrounded by the atmosphere. The atmosphere is nothing but the wall that encloses the room and we should remember that, every time we breathe, we emit carbon dioxide and in that locked room we continue to live. How long will there be enough oxygen to live in that locked room? We should remember what the earth is to talk good about this story. In fact, the problem of the use of fossil fuels starts from afar, since the Club of Rome began to talk about these things; since, after the crisis of Kippur, we lived the days of austerity, and maybe someone older remembers it. We remember a beautiful writing by Ivan Illich where we talked about energy and equity. Maybe we should remember all this. In any case, the problem is probably related to the fact that in Italy there is no real industrial plan. It seems that this is different from the climate problem and it is completely connected, because it is the development model and the industrial plan that Senator Mineo mentioned earlier that we should modify. On the other hand, Italy recognizes itself for some steps of great and far-sighted industrial intelligence. For example, regarding photovoltaics, we can remember the history of Eurosolare, which was an ENI company that we destroyed before leaving with incentives. Perhaps you had to first have the ability to produce photovoltaic panels and then start with incentives. It is in this way that the country system is supported. We are not talking about a few small details which, however, make us understand the meaning of the matter. Let's remember - for example - a company called Turboden, which is an Italian excellence, indeed a world excellence in the field of OCR turbines, namely organic Rankine cycle, for those who remember it, which was bought by the United States and we didn't defend an Italian company really good at producing those machines. Not to mention the so-called Marzano decree: it was 2003 and it was said that new turbogas plants had to be built because they were more efficient. Well, we've built 25,000 megawatts of new turbogas power plants without closing down the old ones, so now we're double the production capacity in the country. Maybe we should start with history to figure out how many mistakes we've made. And maybe now we could take an example from Sweden, which, in 2005, planned a plan to become oil free. Why did Sweden leave in 2005 and we are still talking about these things and continue to subsidise oil extraction? Why do we not deal with the transport problem, which is one of the major areas we never talk about? Maybe it's hard to deal with? However, it would be sufficient to anticipate the implementation of the DAFI Directive, which should be transposed by Italy by October 2016, in order to start modifying the transport model. Not to mention what it would mean, in terms of reducing transport and therefore of moving cars, to finally make the fiber optic system in this country. Not to mention the fact that we have a great ability to store electricity with the famous pumping plants that, when Terna was separated from ENEL, were assigned to ENEL. And then we had a pumping capacity of 8 terawattora and now we're at 1.4. What could we do? We could make distributed generations and, therefore, start producing in homes. We could talk about solar thermal intervention on residential or even Fresnel lens systems to produce water at 180 degrees that goes in industrial processes. In short, there are many things to do but, globally, perhaps we should insist on having a global carbon tax and establish that those who emit carbon dioxide have to pay more than those who do not emit carbon dioxide. Perhaps this is the only way in which we could really intervene globally and that is what should be done at COP21. But I have many doubts that Italy can say something about this. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u32	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u33	Mr President, first of all, given that I have little time available, I would like to be able to attach the text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u34	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u35	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-Idv). The main causes of the increase in greenhouse gas and global warming are depletions, fossil fuels and an unsustainable linear model of uncontrolled consumption and growth that begins with the extreme exploitation of the natural resources that the planet makes available and ends with increasing quantities of emissions, waste and waste with toxic effects on the environment as a whole, on humans and plants. In 2004 Italy was among the best European countries in terms of healthy life expectancy for the population over the age of sixty-five. In 2004, females and males aged sixty-five had on average a healthy life perspective (without disability) of about twelve years. In practice the disability appeared at the age of seventy-seven but, progressively, the situation has deteriorated sharply: in 2012 the life span in health (always after the sixty-five years) has reduced and collapsed to only eight years for men and even to seven years for women. How was it possible to lose in just eight years over four years of healthy life for newborns? It is before everyone's eyes that our health is rapidly deteriorating due to the increase of chronic-degenerative diseases, in particular metabolic diseases, diabetes, hypertension, endocrine diseases, neurodegenerative (especially Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease) and neurobehavioral disorders: for autistic spectrum diseases there is an increase in prevalence from 1 in 1,200 to 1 in 88 in just three decades. Also cancer and, in particular, certain types of cancers such as prostate, pancreas, breast, thyroid and lymphoma, are increasing not only in the elderly, but increasingly in young people and children. In the United States 179 cases are recorded in males and 159 females, while in Italy 191 in males and 163 in females respectively. As citizens of the planet we can act individually by changing our life behavior, but our primary responsibility is to exert a firm and firm pressure on our government representatives to immediately take specific and ambitious agreements to save the earth's climate and our common future. It should be sought and encouraged the involvement of the Ministry of Health and all stakeholders of operational health interests (both at local and national level) in decision-making processes potentially capable of feeding climate changes and health damage. For the rest, I would ask you to read the text of the intervention for which I have requested permission to attach to the documents. [[Applause from Senators Zin and Silvestro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u36	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u37	Mr President, Pope Francis said that we are pursuing policies at the limit of suicide. Yes, they are policies that lead to destruction and that, as a first step, have led to the creation of hundreds of millions of poor. This is the first effect, beyond the climatic aspects because, of course, the first ones to pay are the poor. And terrorism feeds on poor people. Therefore, what they are deciding now in Europe has a direct and indirect effect, with situations of stress between the various nations and terrorism, because a part of the population emigrates and a part despairs and attacks through the forms of terrorism. Italian politics says they've done their part. The majority and the government say they're doing their part against climate change. But what? The only ones who are doing something, with facts and not with words, are those thousands of small entrepreneurs who hold on despite politics and, in particular, those who engage in the green sectors: therefore, energy efficiency, renewable sources, green chemistry, agroforestry supply chain. Those have a direct, and not in words, impact on climate change. And these are mostly small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. On the other hand, politics protects big businessmen. Unknowingly or not, politics protects the big lobbyists. We have seen the unlock Italy with the unlock drills. We have seen the reform of the white certificates that makes small interventions impractical. We have seen what will be the abolition of the protected market, to feed 30 million users to an oligopoly, that of energy producers. We have seen the reform of the electricity tariff, which will be a very serious blow to two of those few sectors in contrast from 2008 onwards: energy efficiency and renewable sources. We were able to ruin two of the few sectors in countertrend after the 2008 crisis. We were absent at European level in the debate on the energy union package: they probably would not have listened to us, but at least we should have tried. And then, we keep making promises: the government has been promising the green act for a year, which should create hundreds of thousands of new jobs in the sectors of the future, which the other countries are chasing, and we are looking ahead. We of the 5 Star Movement a green act have already proposed it in the bill of stability and of course you have rejected it. In other words, we have proposed a package of measures ranging from the stabilisation of ecobonus to the revitalization of the ecoforestry chain, to green chemistry: this is a whole series of concrete measures to create hundreds of thousands of jobs, because the beauty of this change is that it will enable us to create hundreds of thousands of jobs. We therefore ask the Government and the majority to stop dreaming of this green act, to wake up and put it into operation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u38	Senator Dalla Zuanna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u39	Mr President, in order to combat global warming, I believe it is essential to move towards two strongly interlinked directions: scientific and technological research and political courage. Italy and Europe have every interest in becoming a leader in research on renewable energy and energy saving in all their meanings. Let me give you two brief examples: we need less expensive energy storage systems, which last longer and which pollute less in disposal. Without this technological leap the electric automotive will be a wonderful utopia from rich, while solar and wind will always have an ancillary character because of their variability, due to the availability of the wind and the sun. Research, however, must also proceed on less direct aspects of innovation, perhaps more of a process than of a product. For example, a world of zero waste can only come out of utopia if serious progress is made towards the circular economy, through a punctual activity of continuous modification within the companies, in order to build products that at the end of life are easily reusable and recyclable. This research activity needs to be encouraged, promoted and rewarded, first of all thanks to tax incentives and disincentives. Incidentally, the effect of incentives for the production of innovative products is less controversial than incentives for the consumption of renewable energy; in fact, the latter, a little paradoxically, can work against efficiency and innovation. Solar energy costs less in Texas, where it is not encouraged, compared to California, where it has substantial incentives. In addition, Italy and Europe should employ large amounts of patient capital in research activities, which only states can afford to put in place; indeed, in our context this task is perhaps even more up to Europe than Italy. China and the United States are investing huge capital in this field, Italy and Europe are further behind. Courage must, however, first and foremost be political. It is not enough to say - telling the truth - that Italy has already done much, that it is at the forefront of renewable energy production. Indeed, our leadership position gives us greater responsibility for not abandoning this path. A world of zero waste and with drastic reduction of CO2 emissions is not compatible with the maintenance of coal-fired power plants, with the construction of new incinerators, with policies that do not discourage private traffic in our cities, with the support of drilling activities for solid hydrocarbons in the Italian seas. Even with regard to gas, it is clear that this is an indispensable and relatively ecological transition solution in the coming decades, but to be abandoned in a perspective of zero emissions in the horizon of this century. This prospect will have to be reversed in the coming years in coherent and in some cases drastic measures, encouraging - for example - the push-up collection of recyclable waste, with an increasingly drastic reduction of the waste to be incinerated and sent to landfill; or by speeding up the closure of coal-fired power stations and finally making it possible to transfer renewable energy to other users directly in a smart grid perspective. I do not believe that these prospects are harmful to national development. On the contrary, Italy, thanks to its multifaceted and varied manufacturing system, has all the cards in order to stand in a state-of-the-art position in the production of waste raw materials and second and in the increasing use of renewables. But this will only be possible if our legislative activity is consistently directed towards this direction. Something has begun to be done with the environmental connection to the 2014 law of stability, all transposing a series of European directives for the interchange of energy between States and on other issues related to energy and the recovery of waste, confirming the incentives to save energy in building renovations and encouraging the use of electricity to a large extent coming from renewable sources compared to that directly and entirely produced from fossil sources. But the road is still long. The world will still be alive in a few decades if scientific and technological research and political courage can walk side by side. Global warming has made it clear that it is good to abandon small calculations and short-term reasoning by putting us in a new way in front of the world. For the first time the world is faced with a challenge that you win or lose all together: Rich countries and poor countries, bourgeoisie, middle classes and popular classes. The Italian Parliament can send a clear signal to Europe, the Government and the country in this direction. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u40	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u41	Mr President, world leaders met in Paris to talk about climate, but then they talked about something else and, above all, about the crisis in the Middle East, with the issue of terrorism and diplomatic crises in various ways at the centre. Imagine how they were focused on the environmental issue. And they would do well to speak, at an ad hoc meeting, of those four pirlas who have not missed an opportunity to make trouble and destruction, precisely in a capital still shaken by the attacks of November 13. Just as the minute of silence was celebrated to remember the victims of the assaults, scenes of urban guerrilla warfare were flowing at place de la Republique. Who knows if, with an agreement done well and seriously, we can reach a decrease of these criminals with a program 30-30-30, and with their elimination of 30 percent every year for three years, and maybe to store them somewhere, just like with CO2. If the targets for reducing emissions are defined in Paris, but not the action plans and subsequent policies, which should be applied properly from all over the world participating in the meeting, the former will never be achieved. Let's stop telling the story that we're good and good. The infringement procedures concerning the environment in our country are still open and the problem of the land of fires and incinerators has not yet been solved. In this context, yesterday, 30 November, COP21, the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which will end on 11 December, began in Paris. The 195 countries participating in the United Nations Framework Convention and the European Union on Climate Change have the task of pursuing negotiations between countries to try to define binding targets aimed at containing and reducing carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere to combat global warming and climate change. The aim of this conference is to reach a universal agreement on the climate that limits greenhouse gas emissions responsible for global warming. The aim is also to move from a globalization based on competition to a model based on cooperation, where it will be more profitable to protect than to destroy. The intention is to define a credible path that allows to contain the increase of the terrestrial heating below the two degrees, but it would be desirable even a degree and a half. It is therefore necessary to provide for a regular evaluation of progress made with stages every five years and a mechanism for any correction. The agreement will have to be universal, diversified in order to take account of the different levels of development and above all it will have to be binding. In order to achieve results on the containment of global warming, it is also necessary that all countries, beginning with China, India and South Africa, but also the Americas behave in the same way and achieve the same results in terms of ecological commitment. A new global agreement covering all countries of the international community, both industrialised countries such as the United States and the European Union, emerging and developing countries such as China and India, which have significantly increased their emissions in recent years, is expected from the COP21 meeting. While the European Union accounts for 9% of emissions released on earth with a declining percentage, the United States and China account for 11% and 25% of emissions released on the planet, respectively. In view of the Conference, among the indications coming from the media, it seems that the US administration intends to reduce carbon dioxide by between 26 and 28% by 2025 compared to 2005 levels and that Japan has promised a emission reduction of 26% compared to 2013 by 2030, while among developing countries it seems that Mexico claims to be able to reduce carbon dioxide by 22% by 2030 compared to current levels. China has offered to limit its peak carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 and to increase by this date the consumption of clean primary energy to 30% of the total. Since COP21, binding accession is also expected by states that have proved to be negative in the past compared to international agreements, with the aim of containing by the end of the century the increase in global average temperature below two degrees. On 25 February 2015, the European Commission presented to Parliament and the Council a unified position to address global climate change beyond 2020, also in view of the EU's position on climate change. At the United Nations Conference in Lima COP20, in order to achieve the long-term objective of a reduction of at least 60% of greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 (compared to 2010), it was decided to achieve the two-degree target. Mr President, I would ask you to be able to deliver the text of my speech, which is fairly long, given the limited time available, given the importance of the subject. In conclusion, however, I would like to point out that these efforts have little impact on the global climate if not accompanied by the efforts of the countries most responsible for increasing greenhouse gas emissions such as the United States and especially China. It is clear, then, that it is unthinkable to believe that it can weigh on the shoulders of the emerging countries the new technologies for the reduction of gas and CO2, but it is also unthinkable that a China that thinks to double or even triple the production in the next ten to fifteen years can maintain the state of pollution that is characterizing it in these years. Needless also to say, with an almost regular cadence, you have to see people running around with the right mask to emphasize some issues that concern precisely pollution. I think Italy is definitely doing its part. However, it is unthinkable for our companies to compete if they are not placed in a position to be able to interpret their task well within the economic society, reducing pollution (as for construction, the car sector and the steel industry). It is clear that if Italian companies are not in a position to compete synergically with those of other states, they will face a huge deficit because they will be competing with companies that have a completely different system of compliance. To achieve these objectives, it is necessary to develop operations aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises, boosting investment and construction, improving energy efficiency and environmental sustainability of production processes, as well as simplifying and simplifying the authorisation procedures for plants using renewable energy sources. The motion tabled is very complex and covers the whole issue which, potentially, should be discussed in Paris these days. As a timeline, we think we are perhaps late, because our motions, even if they are changed, should have been the basis of what our President-in-Office of the Council will say in that Chamber and not just be the subject of discussion in the Senate, just to do some academy. This will probably not happen and we will produce a series of documents that will remain in the record. In recent years there have been a series of meetings - from Montego Bay to Copenhagen - which have produced beautiful documents which, however, have basically remained on paper, without a precise construct and purpose. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u42	The Presidency authorizes you to deliver the text of your speech. I would like to refer to the continuation of the debate on motions for a further sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u45	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today President Renzi said that women are protagonists with his government. That was his statement: Something has changed compared to the past, with Ministre finally not only assuming delegations on equal opportunities and social affairs. It is true that the Ministre are leaving and, among other things, the Ministry of Equal Opportunities no longer exists. I am referring to what happened four days ago, when Giovanna Martelli, in strong dispute with the party and Renzi, left the Democratic Party's parliamentary group in the Chamber of Deputies and her role as councilwoman for the Department of Equal Opportunities. Giovanna Martelli was the only policy at the head of an anti-discrimination office, since the National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office (UNAR) was dismantled in September. In addition to having been dismantled the only office dealing with this issue, 50 million euros of European funds were lost and 15 experts were sent to UNAR working on anti-discrimination and equal opportunities. We are at a time when the Italian State does not have any draft anti-discrimination policies. All this is in sharp contrast to the statements made about this by Prime Minister Renzi. We want clarification. Firstly, where did the project for a national policy in this area go? Where has the draft of an independent national commission on the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (as requested by the European Union) gone? There have been some draft laws that we could discuss, but they are probably covered up like those on homophobia and civil unions, on which promises are still being made to citizens that are not being kept. From the Ministry of Education, University and Research Minister Giannini makes statements that he would promote a great project of anti-discrimination policies; a pity that then leave out the door the associations that want to collaborate. In short, there is a government site, which should provide information and which was done some time ago: it should have been presented this summer, for which money has been spent, but it is not yet there. We are then a little tired of the premier's, his government's and the majority's bullshit, which makes a great deal of publicity by talking about civil rights and equal opportunities for all (men, women, homosexuals, etc.), but then in fact puts nothing on the plate, so all the government agencies and offices that should deal with this are currently deserts. It seems to me that, since Giovanardi left the majority, things have become - paradoxically - worse. Write this down, because later I will make another speech to ask for this matter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u48	Mr Ferrara Elena (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I would like to dedicate a memory to Dr. Rita Fossaceca, starting from his own words: I had seen schoolchildren teaching under a tree... (). So the idea of creating a school was born: a first class arrived, then four others; then a church and an infirmary; we went ahead, we found ourselves in Novara, in twelve people, and we founded an ONLUS. Almost by chance, underneath, Rita Fossaceca with many other doctors and operators of the major hospital in Novara, gathered in the ONLUS ForLife, put himself at the service of the children - and not only - of Mijomboni in Kenya. He tells all this in his diary, which since last Sunday has not been and will no longer be updated. Rita was killed during a robbery: hers was a sacrifice to defend those she loved, her mother, the family that was with her in Kenya and was there to meet and bring food, care and education to another nucleus considered family, the one composed of the boys and girls who had entered into her life. The culprits have been identified, but no one can give us back the vitality, dedication and enthusiasm of a doctor who had chosen to be on the side of the most fragile, without clamor and excesses. For this reason it is important to give voice today to the commitment of Rita and the many volunteers of all the associations that are bringing their help in the world. A luminous face of our country, which deserves all the attention, the deepest gratitude of the institutions and certainly today the condolences of this Assembly. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u51	ORRU' (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to draw the attention of you and the House to yet another road break, although reopened after a few hours in Sicily in recent days, always following the bad weather, and which once again showed the vetusity of the entire infrastructure network, but above all the improcrastinability, by now, of a precise and rigorous mapping of the entire road and rail system of Sicily. I refer, in particular, to what happened on 29 November last, when an inclined pylon, in the stretch of road between San Giuseppe Jato and San Cipirello, between the 23rd and 28th kilometer of the state road 624 Palermo-Sciacca, caused yet another alarm and led the Carabinieri to close in the morning the viaduct Traversa II for precautionary reasons, reopened in the afternoon following the checks carried out by ANAS. The state road 624 is one of the most trafficked Sicilian roads daily by commuters, since it connects the capital with the hinterland of Palermo and Agrigentino. Its momentary closure is added to the innumerable blocks, closures and interruptions that for more than a year now distinguish the entire Sicilian road and rail system. In this regard, I would like to say that I am preparing a further question on this subject. Finally, I would like to remind you that I have repeatedly spoken in this House to urge the Government to respond to other similar acts of inspection union, which have been presented at the same time as the others, which are now innumerable landslides or structural failures that have not yet been answered. The real question, however, Mr President, is that, through the Presidency and the attention of the Government, I want to urge once again to proceed as a matter of urgency, in consultation with local authorities and stakeholders, to a precise and rigorous monitoring of the entire Sicilian road and rail system, before there are new and dangerous events that, in addition to the serious economic repercussions on the territory, endanger the safety of the citizens. I have repeatedly represented the need that, as a result of such events, no longer be engaged in patchwork, aimed at the individual event and with resources destined to the single problem, but action should be taken absolutely in the context of organic and synergistic programming among all the subjects involved and especially following a punctual mapping of the conditions of the entire Sicilian infrastructure system. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u54	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we in Italy of Values are aware that local broadcasters represent a fundamental garrison for the guarantee of information, social and cultural pluralism. We take great account of the fact that they employ more than 20,000 employees and, with their widespread presence on the territory, carry out a public information service and promote new models of development related to the valorization of the territory, tourism, the productive capacity of small and medium-sized business activities. It is known that the sector, which has already supported significant economic disbursements for the transition to digital terrestrial, is going through a strong economic crisis, testified also by the innumerable and continuous procedures of dismissal in place; just remember, for example, the recent 14 layoffs of the first Sicilian issuer, Antenna Sicilia. An Italian peculiarity is being lost, a wealth for the pluralism of information. An Italian value defined as unique throughout Europe and for which in 2006, at the Geneva Convention, Italy was granted, at the request of AGCOM, more than twice the frequencies issued to the other European Member States, precisely to ensure the continuity of local televisions, to which one third of the frequencies coordinated at European level were assigned by law. However, this important role played by local televisions has been challenged several times by government laws and regulations, which have complicated its already difficult operation. They were marginalized at the last places of the remote control and had frequencies that later proved to be incompatible with the foreign states. The same ones for which now, from AGCOM and Ministry, has been demanded the decommissioning. And it is for this unsustainable situation that Italy of the Values, during the discussion of the law of stability, has proposed an amendment aimed at giving a first and urgent answer to the problem of local broadcasters. And it is for these well-known economic difficulties of the sector that it seems even more paradoxical the story of the frequencies assigned by the Ministry of Economic Development to every local television station, on the occasion of the famous switch off, without first carrying out a serious control on possible interferences with neighbouring foreign countries. The issuers have obtained the frequency on which they transmit on a regular ministerial allocation measure. They have made investments and employ workers. The solution to the error that the Ministry has committed cannot be identified in a miserable incentive to scrap. The draft law No 1880 of the reform of the RAI and the public service radio and television Article 4 contains the delegation to the Government to issue, within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this draft law, one or more legislative decrees for the reorganization of the legislation on audiovisual and radio media services. I hope that on that occasion the Government will be interested in this issue, because it is urgent and necessary to tackle the problems of local broadcasters seriously, starting from the issue of frequencies, in order to defend an essential public service and not further damage an important economic sector. [[Applause from Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u55	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-12-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-545.ana.u56	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday, December 2, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8 p.m.
