ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Gentile, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u3	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u4	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u5	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start the sitting with a greeting and appreciation. The greeting is to President Guido Raimondi, who will lead - the first Italian for over thirty-five years - the European Court of Human Rights, following the election took place in recent days. [[Applause from the groups (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PD]] The recognition with which his colleagues thanked him is certainly a certificate of professionalism and authority of the person, but it is also a very important enunciation of the centrality of Italian legal culture in the contemporary development of international law. From our Peninsula comes not only one of the greatest burdens for the Court (the litigation is unfortunately high): we also express an inexhaustible capital of intellectual refinement, deep competence and self-dedication, of which Judge Raimondi is crystal clear expression. New challenges and heavy clouds are gathering on the future of the European Court: a parish vision is overwhelming one of the founding states, Great Britain, which considered the European Court precious to safeguard the freedom of the Continent, like the Queen's jewels. We must not regress, but rather re-launch the role of the Court in defending the rights and freedoms of all, first of all by making rapid ratification of its latest protocols. But above all, the accession of the European Union to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) as agreed in Lisbon must be made as soon as possible. After the impasse of the hostile opinion expressed by the Court of Luxembourg, here in the Senate a proposal was made for the opening of negotiations, focusing on the partial merger of the two courts, as is apparent in motion 1-00383. Whether this or otherwise is the preferred way, we must do so quickly, in order to prevent the flag of human rights being lowered when there is, more than ever, an urgent need for it. I am sure that the election of Judge Raimondi as President - in addition to confirming the excellent level of European jurisprudence, of which he has been a fundamental part in recent years - will give new impetus to this elaboration and I hope that our diplomacy will create the conditions to support it in all international and supranational fora.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u6	Senator Buemi, the Presidency thanks you for your report and joins in the greeting you wanted to make.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u9	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for a word about the vote under Rule 56 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, which was not possible at the end of yesterday's sitting and when and if it will take place today.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u10	Senator Santangelo, the request, which has been made correctly pursuant to Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, must be submitted at the end of the sitting. Therefore, if you wish to repeat it, you must make a further request before the end of the sitting with the usual channels.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u11	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 1429-B, which was first approved by the Senate and first amended by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u12	Mr President, I would also like to thank you for submitting 82 million amendments, because this will allow us to discuss the constitutional reform differently, even though I wonder what has changed for you between the first and second resolutions: it seems that you wanted to avenge the request for referral made by President Zanda, but we are moving forward. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what value does the word democracy have for you here today? For the 5 Star Movement the answer is simple: it has no price. But I just have to turn around and look at your tense faces better, look at Babylon, or rather the fish market that we are witnessing in these hours in the Senate, to understand that for many of you there is a price. Yeah, if he does. Behind the scenes, you politicians are willing to sell it off, either to the kilo for an armchair as Deputy Minister or Undersecretary, to barter it even for a Commission Presidency (in fact we are still waiting to vote for it) or for a convenient place in a participating company, to guarantee you a comfortable pension. Some would even be willing to give it away, only to ruffle the chief clan on duty with the gift of their own servile betrayal, with the suppression of every regurgitation of dignity. Do you still have the courage, between a revival and another, to think about how much it cost, our people, to conquer democracy? When we fell into a totalitarian state from a liberal state, it was not that someone warned us. Three simple actions were enough to change the link between civil society and the apparatus of power: the imposition of the single party, the suppression of all forms of opposition and the enslavement of the media to the cult of the leader. I don't know if he reminds you of anyone. I do. We thought we had only one king, we found ourselves in a moment also a duke and lasted for twenty years. Too many died and suffered unjustly. From this suffering, from the reaction to this terrible experience comes every article of our Constitution. His every word has been written caressing us Italians, urging us to feel active and involved, to contribute with our contribution to the material and spiritual progress of society. Every word exudes equality, freedom and opportunity. But time passes and a people forgets quickly, especially ours, right? Confide in this, while you still have the nerve to present this liberticidal and authoritarian reform, treating it as indispensable: the reform of the Senate. What Senate? It is an insult even to call by this name an assembly made up of a bunch of nominations: presidents, regional councillors and mayors, who at best will be senators on Sunday or will give up their mandate seriously. In the worst, indeed in the most probable (in view of the precedents), they will be selected at the appropriate time to escape charges and trials thanks to the shield of immunity, indeed impunity, for which they will be very grateful to their own parties and the Executive. Other than directly elected by the people! It is difficult to imagine such an antithetical political regime compared to that designed by our constituent Fathers. The legislative function, de facto monopolized by the House of Deputies, in turn slave to the electoral choices (and not) of party secretariats, is crushed by the dictatorship of the strongest minority. In one branch the national enslaved, in the other the local appointed; on all the infallible and undisputable hand of the Executive, in turn dominated by a stronger Premier than ever, summit of the pyramid. A Premier who must not be afraid of violating the conflict of interest law. No, because you never passed that law, you never wanted to stop the cancer of democracy and prevent that monopoly of information that denies the equal right of all citizens to access elected posts (it is Article 51 of the Constitution, since you are so experts). Is that the balance of power? Would this be your plan to dismantle the rule of law, already polluted by the rampant lies of a serial liar, lying about work, school, employment, crisis, youth, corruption and great socially useless works? Yes, because since Renzi's self-proclaimed, self-proclaimed Premier of this House, we have seen the most subtle and harmful laws passed for Italians in the history of the Republic. In this year it has valued the worst part of the country, it has surrounded itself with a court of supposed incompetents, it has infected the minds of the citizens with the conviction that the slogan is worth more than the argument (these are the words of the former magistrate Bruno Tinti). After a first Republic submerged by a rain of coins and a second suffocated by the "bunga bunga," a third Republic is emerging on the horizon, increasingly overwhelmed by hypocrisy, by lies, by blackmail and by the almost total pursuit of personalistic interests, slave to a Government in turn sucked by a growing delirium of infallibility and omnipotence. I would like to ask Prime Minister Renzi: why do you need a Parliament now? What is the point of maintaining the appearance of respecting it, while degradating it to a place where the majority, as such, are always right and the opposition is a cumbersome and annoying harp? It would be more courageous and consistent for you to ask us directly to suppress it. And look at the fact that many of you in your coalition and not in your coalition would also vote for this abolition, believe me, as long as you guarantee him his salary for life, because democracy is not important to them, but it is important to have a salary. Yeah, that's all that matters to you. I tell you what it is for now: the Constitution serves to remind us that the heart of democracy is not the affirmation of the power of the majority, but the defence of the right of minorities, the right to control, to denounce, to oppose, to support their own reasons, to become in turn, thanks to their own work and their own credibility, majority. And that's what scares you, that we can become a majority. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This is the basis of the true democracies, which protect and defend with multiple caution and legal instruments this right of opposition, an organ of popular sovereignty just as vital as the Government and its majority. But in Italy we have not been a real democracy for some time now, because this country governs it with an illegitimate minority (not only for us, but also according to a decision of the Constitutional Court), a narrow minority around the objective of disrupting the defenses of the Constitution and guaranteeing itself a perpetual Government. By eliminating the system of alternation, which is the essence of democracy (Aristotle said), the coalition that emerged from the 2013 vote wants to remain unchanged, wants to protect itself forever from all forms of political and moral responsibility for the failure of all the promises made, for the worsening of social inequalities at the expense of millions of citizens, including workers, school workers, unemployed, pensioners and young people. It is a reform imposed by the blackmail of the few who pretend to be many and rob everyone's future. We cannot remain indifferent; we cannot be silent and impassive in the face of this violence. We must stop you now, because by now we would not even have the sad hope of an intervention of the Constitutional Court, since this counter-reform will allow the majority to divide also the election of its judges, removing the decisive participation of oppositions and transforming it into a malleable appendix. Who will find the strength to raise his voice against authoritarianism, against the centralization of power in the hands of puppets appointed by a narrow circle of men away light years from the interests of the people? It will be the Republic of the abuse, of the repugnance on the opponents and of the arbitrariness against the dissenters. It will be, gentlemen, the fascism of the third millennium, even more insidious because it is hidden under the remains of a dying democracy. In order to realize your dream, which is our nightmare, no lie is too big. Would you have the courage to repeat even now the "balls" of a few months ago, when you said that constitutional revision laws should be approved with the broadest possible consensus? And where does your consent form? In the secret rooms of the Nazarene, with the Berlusconi-Renzi pact for first reading? Or perhaps in the corridors of Palazzo Madama, while Verdini collects the figurines of the album "Responsible 2015-2016" that he will give to his friend Matteo? "The Italian people ask us to do so," you said. But when you saw the Italians go down to the square to the cry: "Senato delle autonomie at once!" I have seen the Italians struggle for their constitutionally guaranteed rights, certainly not to have a Chamber of nominees, certainly not for a reform that will not bring about a job of 43% of young unemployed people, who will not improve health, always left at the mercy of the greedy appetites of the Regions, with the known inequalities between those virtuous and those not. Which of you would have the nerve to say that bicameralism slows down the legislative process? President, I see my microphone flashing, pointing out that my time is almost over. You have tabled 82 million amendments, which will take a long time to examine. Allow me at least two minutes to finish my speech, which is a little longer than it should have been: I had twenty minutes at my disposal, but I could not cut anything that, with my heart, I wanted to say. I therefore ask you to be pleased to allow me to conclude my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u13	If it's only two minutes, I'll gladly give it to you, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u14	TAVERNA (M5S). I'm moving on, then. It is not your priority to fight the privileges of those who have much more than they need, while millions of Italians live in poverty, deprived of their dignity. Yet the social income to the needy is still in Article 38 of the Constitution, but also that to you does not interest, and it is one of the fundamental tasks that the Constitution assigns to the Republic. Similarly, you are not interested in resolving the conflict of interests that violates the constitutional principle of equality of all citizens in access to elected positions, always sacrificed on the altar of political barter. These are the true reforms that the Italian people ask of us, not to cancel, but to implement our fundamental law, the "great unfinished," as Calamandrei said, in order to fully realize the principles of our Constitution. All this, however, the Premier pretends not to know. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Many headline newspapers: "Renzi wants to win," as if our constitutional order were the bet of a child premier, the prize to be attributed to a selfish narcissus, arrogant at national level and irrelevant to the European one. And who cares if in universities, as well as in the few free media and among our benches, many desperately ask to stop a wrong reform. The important thing is to be the government of doing. Even disgusting, as long as it's done. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But this text in front of me isn't a law like so many that you'll be mad at: it's our Constitution, gentlemen. It cannot be soiled by a Quagliariello, who thinks only of changing the electoral law to save his career; by a Berlusconi, who pretends to lead a "cruise of democracy" against a reform that is equal to his 2005; by a Lotti and his dark bullets for the count of senators or by a Boschi, who is not there, but nobody knows what Boschi does! [[Applause from Senator Puglia]] For all this and in memory of all those who have fought for it, we believe that our modern and far-sighted Constitution should be protected. This Senate must remain elective to control and prevent the authoritarian drift of this Government. I wanted to speak today and I wanted to do so in this Chamber, so that these words will remain in the proceedings, a reminder of that part of the country that does not give up today, that does not intend to do so, neither tomorrow, nor ever. I have only one life and I will leave nothing unturned to fight this rotten and corrupt system, which survives only by self-legitimacy and has no sense of existence anymore. (Brusio). I won't let you steal me even one day, because I don't want to live neither regret nor regret, but always walking with my head high, with dignity. And I also want to be able to tell my son, for the rest of my life, that I never thought of giving up, not even for a second, that I fought with all my strength, along with a handful of honest women and men in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , and to millions of them outside of it, to affirm his right to have rights, to honor the will of the constituent Fathers, to defend the most precious patrimony of the Italians: our Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u15	Colleagues, I do not intend to continue with the buzz and noise that accompanied Senator Taverna's intervention. Each of us strives and studies to prepare the interventions, and it is right that he can carry them out with the respect of those who work alongside them. I therefore hope that there will be a different background for the continuation. I've given Senator Taverna a minute longer and I'll do the same with one representative for each group. However, I ask everyone else to respect the time set. Senator Bertacco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u16	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the need to reform Part II of the Constitution was born more than thirty years ago. All the attempts at constitutional revision carried out so far have not produced good results, therefore, the fundamental Charter of the Italian order still maintains intact all the elements outlined by the constituent Assembly in 1946-47. The only exception is the reform of Title V of 2001 of the center-left, which, indeed, was not an improvement reform at all but has worsened, and much, the structure of the Regions, Provinces and Municipalities. First of all, it must be made clear that constitutional laws, as well as constitutional revision laws, the discipline of which is found in Article 138 of the Italian Constitution, are the exclusive competence of Parliament, to which legislative power is attributed. The theory of the separation of the powers of Montesquieu, crystallized in our Constitutional Charter, excludes from the legislative process any interference of the executive power, attributed to the Government, and of the judicial power, entrusted to the judiciary. It is understandable why it is Parliament that has to legislate and therefore establish the lines within which the internal system is implemented, because it is the only institutional body legitimated to exercise popular sovereignty. Clearly, it is without prejudice to the wider and more legitimate right of criticism that must be exercised by anyone - and we would miss something else - only that the interference that we are seeing these days is intolerable, because they are interference from the flavor of the threat that a power outside the process allows to exert on the legitimate one. So today the theory of Montesquieu, so dear to us, no longer coincides with practice. It is now before everyone's eyes that the President of the Council, at the head of the executive power, said, arbitrarily and illegitimately, rhythms and times of the legislative process of constitutional reform. For me, and for many of my fellow Members in this House who have a deep respect for institutional prerogatives, this attitude, incomprehensiblely nothing at all opposed, is absolutely unacceptable. From the presence of the President-in-Office of the Council in this Chamber during his work, it is felt that the Premier is interpreting, I would say, in an overflowing way, the functions that have been assigned to him, almost to be the controller of Parliament. This is a question of institutional decency: the President of the Council should not always be so present. Instead, the story in recent months tells exactly the opposite. It was the beginning of February of this year when our President-in-Office of the Council entered the Chamber of Montecitorio at night and, wandering between the benches of the Members, required the Members of his party to approve both the constitutional reform he wanted that the time of realization, intimidating his own that, if they had not adapted, he would resign with consequent political elections, thus putting at risk the re-election of the members of the internal minority of the PD. Imagine what the many sided feathers of this country would have written (not to mention the foreign press) if President Berlusconi had been in the Chamber at night during the discussion and vote on constitutional reforms. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] But you know, the rules, for the left, apply only and exclusively to others. But let us return to the merit of constitutional reform. First of all, the 1st Committee on Constitutional Affairs, whose seat was only an opportunity to declare the proposed amendments to Article 2 of the reform inadmissible, which has a significant impact on Article 57 of the Constitution, in the matter of the composition and election of the Senate of the Republic. This denies the parliamentary debate on fundamental points such as Article 2 and, in particular, on the election of members of the new Senate, we are here in this House to express our views and reflections on the subject which, unfortunately and reluctantly, we know that they will not have any echoes, since the reform game is being played outside this House, where the greatest commitment is not so much in trying to conclude a broad agreement on the content, but it is in carrying out the buying campaign in order to have sufficient numbers and necessary for the approval of the reform, forgetting that these are changes to the Italian Constitution, which represents the document that is the basis of the democratic coexistence of the country and, therefore, any possible modification of it would need the maximum consensus among all political forces. Here the line is defined in the direction of PD and spread via Twitter. The critical profiles of this constitutional revision bill are many and concern; the multiplication of legislative procedures, which can give rise to a real legislative babel; the imbalance between the House and the Senate in the election of the guarantee bodies, beginning with the President of the Republic; the division of competences between the State and the Regions, apparently simplified, but in reality even more complicated and less functional. Each of these aspects deserves a wide and articulated discussion, but it is enough to recall the many criticisms contained in the 80 pages written by the Department of Studies of Palazzo Madama. A rich dossier in which senate technicians point by point criticize the text of constitutional reform armored by Prime Minister Renzi and Minister Boschi. The most important doubts concern the competences of the new Senate, further reduced after the changes made to the House. Basically, for the technicians of Palazzo Madama the Senate would be reduced to an almost useless organ, so much so that they write: The changes made in the first reading in the other branch of the Parliament seem to provide for the Senate to perform functions only in conjunction with the Chamber of Deputies. They do not appear to be provided for functions performed by the Senate alone, nor, it would be said, functions exercised by the Senate independently of the Chamber. Once the function of "exclusively" maintaining relations with the European Commission has disappeared, the question arises: what exactly would this new Senate do? Another point: as it is written, the article that entrusts only to the House the vote on the declaration of war is almost an exception in Europe and it is a unicum if we consider the European countries that have a bicameral parliament. Instead, Ireland, Poland and Slovenia provide that the consent to the declaration of war is made only by the House of Deputies, which, however, in each country is elected with a proportional system. And then, to close my speech, I borrow some verses of a song by a songwriter very dear to the left, Roberto Vecchioni, who in his famous song says: And the greatest conquered Nation after Nation, and when it was in front of the sea there was a c... (I leave it to you to complete the rhyme), for nothing could be conquered further on; and so much way to see a desperate sun, and always equal and always as when it had departed. Here, President Renzi, for the good of the Italians you are not also in front of the sea and avoid, especially the Italians, a awakening with a desperate sun. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u17	Senator Girotto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I note that, compared to 15 July 2014, when this draft law was examined at first reading, the text certainly does not seem to be changed for the better. Many reasons explain this opinion, but, in this respect, the basis for my speech was given to me by the statements made by the President of the Council two days ago at the PD management meeting. In this meeting, Renzi, for at least twice, claimed a preference for a Senate representation entrusted only to the mayors and therefore with total exclusion of representatives of the Regions. Now, one might ask the following question: can our Premier, who has a degree in law, even if he has been described as a little expert by the Court of Auditors, really escape that in our legal system it is the Regions, and not the Municipalities, which are responsible for the legislative power? That legislative power is the most important among public functions and, not by chance, is entrusted to elected representatives of the people? What is perfectly logical that an Assembly which intervenes in the exercise of its legislative function, especially on matters affecting regional autonomy, should see among its members the entities representing the Regions? The President of the Regions will not open his mouth, we are sure, but we are not interested in this aspect. We note, however, that if the President-in-Office does not understand the above, he certainly does not come out of it very well. We believe, however, that Renzi is not totally fasting constitutional law, but that he simply does not care about the effectiveness and coherence of the reform, being interested simply in presenting a new medal to the Italians. We do not doubt that, if the reform is well received, it will be thanks to you, but that any defects will certainly be attributable to Parliament. On the other hand, had our Premier not proposed that more than twenty senators should be appointed by the President of the Republic? That's absurd. What wonders, then? It doesn't take much to understand it: in a moment of disaffection for politics, Renzi, instead of trying to seriously cure its causes, chose a target on which to focus the general impopolity and identified it in the Regions. The Regions, it seems, are responsible for all the disasters of the Italian State; it is the competing power of the Regions the cause of all evil, forgetting or pretending to ignore all the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court of clearly anti-regionalist direction, which for example leads back to the coordination of public finance by now any state discipline, compressing precisely the regional legislative power. It does not pay to have practically destroyed the regional legislative power, this majority - if that really will be - has well thought, in the passage of the bill to the House, to further reduce the functions of the Senate, which now on many aspects are further reduced. The Senate is limited to contributing to the link between the State and territorial authorities, to contributing to the link between territorial authorities and the European Union and to contributing to the evaluation of public policies. These functions were certainly not easily defined, in part new, but it is evident the further marginalization of the Senate, functional, moreover, to its nature as representative body of self-governments that they want to suppress. Why, then, keep a body that does nothing and risks becoming an assembly of politicians, excuse the term, trumpeted at the elections of the House, which is offered a consolation prize, from which to take advantage, perhaps every other week, going to Rome? This is certainly not the senate to which our constituent Fathers had thought, nor is it true that the second Chambers in the other ordinances count for nothing, even without uncomfortableing the American Senate, which is not second. The Senate risks not counting anything in Italy: in this sense, the vexed question of the direct electivity of senators does not solve the problem, but could at least mitigate the imbalance of powers that is produced also thanks to the new electoral law for the House. We do not fall into misunderstandings and furberias: it is a silly argument to say that electoral law is something different from constitutional reform, when vice versa it is undeniable that electoral law is a decisive part of the structure of the party system, decisively affecting representation and therefore influencing the form of government of each country. It is not by chance that today, that is to say almost done, the inspirations of electoral reform pretend to realize that perhaps, with this system, it will be too easy for a majority even not high to elect a President of the Republic (read Professor D'Alimonte's speech on "Il Sole 24 Ore" last Sunday), all things that we - theoretically the less experienced - had long highlighted and deplored. We do not talk about the incredible confusion that will be created in the system of sources, with the presence of equal and non-equal bicameral laws, with matters of competence entrusted to agreements, perhaps opaque, between Presidents of the Chamber and Senate, and with possible and predictable litigation before the Constitutional Court actuated by the Regions (or perhaps also by the State) in defense of their respective competences. It is even obvious that within such a broad reform, of course, there are also no negative elements: I am thinking of the possibility for a parliamentary minority to request a judgment from the Constitutional Court on electoral laws (although Article 13 of the draft seems ambiguous, it is unclear whether the judgment of the Court should cover the entire law and whether it should be considered exclusive, precluded a judge from turning again to the Court, perhaps after years, and while observing that the reference to electoral laws is likely to exclude all the legislation of outline, for example on the financing and management of electoral campaigns). Preventive intervention should avoid the legal contortions that the Court had to undertake in order to declare Porcellum unlawful. The point is that one, or some aspects that may be acceptable in the reform, does not exonerate from a global judgment, which can only be negative; but we did not decide to undertake a reform process with regard to a plurality of profiles and dishomogeneous institutes, forcing Parliament, and tomorrow the Italians, to say yes or no about everything, in bulk. Finally, let me say something about the question of emendability. We do not understand why Rule 104 of our Rules of Procedure can apply to a legislative procedure concerning constitutional revision; in twenty-six hearings of constitutionalists, as many as twenty spoke about the fact that it is absolutely possible to speak on Article 2. Moreover, there are specific precedents: during the debate on Article 68 of the Charter, in 1993, for example, the then President of the Camera Giorgio Napolitano admitted the emendability of a rule that had already been voted in accordance, both in Montecitorio and in Palazzo Madama. That's about merit. Let us now turn to the method, the true insinable question, the true original sin that I personally do not forgive you, but I assume that history will not forgive you too. The true original sin consists in the fact that you are acting having a merely formal legitimacy, but absolutely not ethical. I am referring to the fact that the Porcellum has been declared unconstitutional and that there is a majority prize that allows you to do what you are doing and that is to do an abuse of dominant position. I do not know how many of you work in the field of trade or industry, in any case the abuse of a dominant position is a very serious practice. You are in an illegitimate majority position. You are not respecting a precise indication from the Constitutional Court that this Parliament should have confined itself to the management of ordinary administration, to adopting a new electoral law and then going immediately to new elections. That is the point: you are not legitimate; you are not respecting the Constitutional Court and, therefore, the Italians and this is unforgivable. Absolutely unforgivable. You are abusing a position in which you have been placed by an illegitimate rule. Let us not hide behind a finger: citizenship does not call for this reform. Citizenship calls for well-being, which largely results from work and the labour sector today is in difficulty because it lacks stability, lacks coherence in the rules that are the result of the influence exerted by lobbying. Making this Senate less autonomous and less powerful will change nothing: the influence of the lobby will not change and we will find ourselves at the same point even after. Nothing will change at all, I say it to future memory of the Italians. This reform will not change policy. As long as it is influenced by lobbyists, it will not change. We believe that such a broad constitutional change, involving over forty articles, must be launched by a constituent assembly elected with a proportional system that would present two advantages: that of being representative of Italian society in its entirety and that, above all, of being free from the constraints of the government's activity. Article 138 was introduced in order to make some adjustments, certainly not to implement such a far-reaching reform. To be clear, to limit the danger of a government that would turn the Constitution upside down for its own use and consumption, by majority blows, someone had already thought about it and had gone to the shelter with a bill that would have been most appropriate. I am talking about a bill signed by 65 Members of Parliament (including Napolitano and Mattarella), which was at the heart of protecting our democracy and which, if it had been adopted, would simply not allow you to do what you are doing. Perhaps it is true: this is Renzi's reform - only Renzi's - and not the Italians and it would be advisable to distance themselves before it is too late. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u19	Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u20	Mr President, representatives of the Government, senators and senators, we are discussing the reform of the Constitution of the Italian Republic. Instead of a solemn and profound confrontation, everything is marked by Renzi's hectic agenda: reforms - therefore - at any cost, regardless of their specific weight in terms of institutional, economic, social and ethical value. Renzi's agenda has no time, no desire, no thickness to go beyond tweets, it's all it's looking for. Better then complete the new reading at the Senate before it triggers the budget session in mid-October. This again emerges the fearful legislative futurism, quoted on several occasions, which claims that this Government is constantly looking for models that increase the speed of law approval in a decision-making without any real decision. The withdrawal of the amendments was not enough either: the Democratic Party has decided to run even faster, forcing us to yet another marathon in the House and demeaning once again the weight of the work in the Commission. But we've gotten used to it. Yet there is a time of incubation to mature thoughtful ideas and solutions, since we are talking about substantial changes to our Constitution and our democracy, to which the constituent Fathers have reserved appropriate time. It really has never been seen - at least in a liberal and democratic country - a government that is so heavy on the substance of a constitutional law. Never! Yet this Executive has invested itself in the right to change forty articles of the Constitution without a parliamentary mandate. This happens precisely in our own system, which has an open Constitution capable of guiding fundamental political choices, and a tradition of constitutionalists who have been able to build a system based on weights and counterweights able to withstand the test of time and profoundly different contexts. Today we are engaged in a bill that is unable even to overcome the perfect bicameralism harmoniously. However, the real danger - we have said so many times - lies in the combination between the reform of the Senate and Italicum, which risks undermining the very foundations of democracy with a majority that will have a free hand to the House and the Senate, with the power to determine all institutional structures (from the President of the Republic, to the Supreme Council of the judiciary). We are turning towards an encircled presidentialism, without even the dignity of what refers to the European and American tradition (of the North, at least, because perhaps we cannot refer to the South American countries as well). We are moving forward with solutions which are all strictly extra-parliamentary, some of which - I recognise this - are even imaginative. I am thinking of several amendments, of the conjunction with the election of regional councils and of the emergence, between the two extremes of the election of second degree and direct election, of the hypothesis of the blocked sliding list, which would have allowed the citizen to compete in the choice of regional councillors destined to enter the new Senate of the hundred. All in order to avoid the supreme evil, that is to say the vote by the citizens. I recall that universal suffrage is not in our readiness, but is part of the founding values of democracy, forming part of the foundation on which a democratic system is based. If possible, then, we try to bypass also the confrontation with minorities and we make our way and emerge a real crisis of abstinence from a vote of confidence also with respect to the Constitution (I am not inventing it, as we read it in the newspapers). Moreover, many of you do not see any difference from what happened a few months ago on the provision on school, on jobs act or on Italicum. It is no coincidence that today, with the White Night for the school, throughout Italy, and in Rome, thousands and thousands of teachers of students, parents, will manifest against the Good School. And in Rome it is no coincidence that, together with the initiatives in front of the Ministry of Viale Trastevere, initiatives will take place in front of the Senate. The Palaces may not have understood this, but awareness is being made in the citizens, women and men, who live and work in our Republic, that there is a thread that dramatically and negatively unites the action carried out by the Renzi Government in recent months. Another doubt grabs the prospects for revision of Title V of Part II of the Constitution. Decentralisation or centralization? On this binomial is played the great misunderstanding of the reform. According to the government's orientation in its accompanying report of 8 April 2014, the reform intends to enhance, by declining it in a new way, institutional pluralism and the autonomous principle, with the aim of increasing the rate of democracy of our system, in the awareness that the autonomy of bodies other than the State constitutes an irreplaceable element of enrichment of the institutional system. The closer public power is to the citizens, the higher the quality of democratic life according to the principle of vertical subsidiarity, which is also incorporated into the institutional architecture of the European Union. Today it is therefore a question of giving impetus to a process that really guarantees local autonomy a virtuous involvement in the decision-making circuit at national level. However, if we look at the reform, both in the original version and in the recent version, reporting the changes in reading to the House, there is a clear deviation from the initial objectives. In view of the reduction of regional autonomy, especially on the legislative authority side, the new Senate is absolutely inadequate to satisfy the right balance between competence and participation, i.e. between the guarantee of the political direction of the regions within the national political circuit. Without prejudice to our political position of opposition to a Senate of nominations that is not of an elective nature, it is evident that both from the structural point of view (with position, numerical distribution and mode of election) and from the functional one, the powers are many from the quantitative point of view, but of little incisiveness, especially in the relationship between the State and the regions. The new Senate does not present itself at all as the Chamber of Regions, despite the latter being the expression that would be introduced in the new Article 55, with the Regions no longer being political-legislative bodies but oriented to the administration and coordination of local administrations in the territorial dimension of the so-called vast area. To this we add the ruin, as happened with the fake abolition of the provinces. In fact, democracy and the participation of those instruments that, on the other hand, produced precious democracy, participation and acts of good governance have been abolished only and exclusively. In fact, according to this plan, the keys to all public policies are to be returned to the State, to remove the list of subjects of concurrent legislation and to redefine the system of repartition of the legislative power between the State and the regions on empty lists of subjects, with the umpteenth operation of facade, yet another incoherence. I repeat once again that the Left Ecology and Freedom has proposed a differentiated bicameralism, for functions, in which the Parliament legifers through few and qualified laws of principle and controls the government's work in the implementation, while the Chamber of Deputies, through the trust link with the Government, should deal with the implementation of the political direction. The Senate should be set up as a Chamber responsible for the protection of rights and guarantees, capable of promoting quality legislation, assessing the impact, even territorial, of public policies and exercising a penetrating inspection and control power: for example, on the work of the leaders of public structures and public-sector companies. The zeroing of any balance of powers, or the prospect of a hypertrophic executive, is therefore not acceptable. Is there a majority of Italians, with reference to the absolute votes of 2013, who freely voted this proposal? The pact of the Nazarene has skipped, as far as I am concerned, which, however, answered the question I am asking, we have a hyper-majoritarian system that is proposed by representatives who are the result of the unconstitutional Porcellum. In fact, in the House, the Democratic Party has enjoyed the majority prize by virtue of the coalition Italia Bene Comune, that is, with that contribution - albeit limited - that made the difference, brought by Left Ecology and Freedom. In the Senate, with a different electoral system, in the same way, without that contribution there would have been no majority prize to the Democratic Party, for example, in Piedmont and Lazio. If this assumption is true (and it is absolutely true because it is confirmed by incontrovertible data, numbers and certificates, not polls or exit polls), I would also invite information to be careful when talking about majority: majority of what? The elected, not the votes of the citizens. And in the referendum - plebiscite that will conclude this path, other than plebiscite, the referendum will mark an unprecedented element, it will be the first simulation on the field of Italicum, in the real country, not in vitro. If a majority is the result of an electoral system and not of a real and proportional consensus it does not exercise wisdom and balance, it cannot claim that a real majority, reduced to a minority by an unconstitutional law, is more realistic than the king. All opposition, as is right, will unite against these evil proposals. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u21	She is registered to speak Senator Paglini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u22	Mr President, in the days of the disruption of our Constitutional Charter by this Government, I feel the moral obligation to express my thoughts, the result of your disturbing political actions, of your desire to handle precious and delicate material with the politeness of an elephant entering a crystal store. I do not think I exaggerate when I say that the democratic destiny of our country is at stake. The thing I care about is in danger: freedom. The country is preparing for a reform of new authoritarianism, for the birth of an empty democracy! Autoritarianism because a non-elective Senate does not mean progress, efficiency, savings, but mere elimination of the electoral transition. With this new empty House, Italians save 40 or 50 million a year, and then, if Renzi wanted to save money, it would have been easier to avoid buying an Air Force One with a cost of 180 million euros, public money, Italian citizens' money! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr Renzi turned off the debate and paralyzed the freedom of Members of Parliament by skipping the debate in the Commission and bringing the debate on reforms to the House without rapporteur. So you will have an electoral law that will see the three quarters of elected chosen by one man and a Senate of nominations double workers who will maintain parliamentary immunity. I do not find it hard to say that this is an attack on our freedom! I wonder, however, why if more than 80% of the people ask for an elective Senate, you do exactly the opposite here, whose spokesperson are you? What powers? And don't you dare put your trust in this abortion. Today, this government, headed by an arrogant power bulimic, with the endorsement of this enslaved majority and with various cross courtiers attached to the armchairs, is celebrating the funeral of your dignity! In the Commissions. Fortunately, other alarmed voices are added to ours, such as those of some constitutionalists, illustrious connoisseurs of the subject such as Zagrebelsky, Imposimato, Rodotà (those whom Minister Boschi calls somewhat annoyed "the professors") and some experts of law and political theory such as Professor Maurizio Viroli who well explains the concept of this reform. Honoring to be also his spokesman, I take back some of his considerations: in these days so delicate we must return to the basic concept of freedom, we must ask ourselves fundamental questions and ask ourselves what the true nature of this "constitutional reform" is, what lies behind its explicit and continuous blackmail "or approve of the reform or I bring the country to the vote"! Except that he is not in Renzi, in his office, to hold the elections, but in no case to the President of the Republic. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Evidently you feel the already sewn role of the one in this country who will decide for everyone. And we, dear citizens, ask ourselves when we can feel free. In my opinion, we are free when we are not subject to the opinion and power of men, who if they want can oppress us: being free does not mean having a good master, but not having masters. Today we are talking about constitutional reform. Starting from the meaning of the words, which are particularly important in politics, we read that the word reform indicates a radical change for which a social institution takes on new form; a thing is born or reborn very different from that which previously existed. Reforming is changing, for the sake of improvement, a state of affairs or an institution. The constitutional revision is another thing. It is the change, the revision of some details, but it is not the birth of a new Constitution. Instead, the reformers of this legislature speak explicitly of constitutional reform. Minister Boschi and the President-in-Office of the Council speak explicitly of constitutional reform; indeed, they use tones of great emphasis as the mother of the political and civil battles we are facing. The Constituents had another idea. When they discussed Article 138, they were talking about constitutional revision. We were talking about the modification of one, at most two articles. Here we are talking about total debarking. But Article 138 authorizes the revision of the Constitution, it does not authorize the reform of the Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] No parliament, much less that elected on the basis of an unconstitutional electoral law, has or must have the authority to reform the Constitution, with the obvious consideration that those who do so are doing so for their own sake. Then there is another point that deserves reflection. The act of rewriting a Constitution is par excellence the act of sovereign power. So, reformers, in this country, sovereign power still belongs to the people and therefore you cannot change the Constitution, also because no one has elected you to do so. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] To read also that Renzi, not elected by anyone, even impels himself to threaten the second office of the State with the affirmation that if he opens to changes to Article two it is necessary to convene Parliament immediately makes the idea of the standing and danger of this arrogant character. Renzi says that Italians have been waiting for this reform for seventy years. We wonder why he wants to reform the Constitution so quickly. Because it wants to set up as soon as possible a Senate of nominations, which will enjoy parliamentary immunity, because it wants to impose an electoral law that will see in the future a Parliament with three quarters of nominations, which in turn will have decision-making power over the appointment of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Republic and the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Their superexpert professors, such as Quagliariello, in the work begun in the Committee of Wise Men explained that the country has been waiting too long for this constitutional reform. Quagliariello, however, forgot to say that in 2006 the country had already rejected, through a referendum, the reform proposed by the then government. So we do not see this spasmodic expectation, this suffering and this trauma of the Italians to have this constitutional reform. But Quagliariello gives us the answer to this by saying that there is global competition and that we have inadequate institutions. It claims that the other countries of Western democracies have been able to face global competition by reforming the institutions and we have not. False. The Western countries have not changed their Constitutions, they have reformed the governments of those who govern, they have changed economic policies and that is how they have overcome the crisis. They haven't changed their constitutions. But then we have a doubt. Will it not be that the problem of the economic crisis, of this crisis that consumes us, that corrodes us, that empties us, that takes away the hope, that insecurizes us, that impoverishes us, that makes the young people flee from our country perhaps does not derive from the slowness of our Constitution, but from political corruption, tax evasion and your frightening arrogance and incompetence? Is that not the cause? The bicameral system is considered to be cumbersome and slow: this is another firm point of your statements, but it is false! If mathematics is not an opinion, we tried to do the mathematics: the last Berlusconi Government was in office 1287 days and approved 230 laws; the Monti Government has been in office 529 days and has approved 92 laws; the Letta Government has been in office 300 days and has approved 35 laws; the Renzi Government has been in office for about 580 days and has approved 103 laws. Well, have you passed a law every six days, considering also Saturday, Sundays and holidays in August and Christmas and this would be slow? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You have to stop teasing the Italians! These are the numbers, it is not slow at all: apart from the bad quality, the laws are produced, indeed! With this Constitution you can make laws, so say that you cannot legislate because there is bicameralism is simply false. Yesterday, Minister Boschi again appealed, saying that governments must be able to decide; but they already decide and if a law is passed every six days I wonder what the problem is. The problem is that you don't want to be contradictory, that's what your problem is. The one party is your goal! The Constituents had seen a liberal state die, they had seen the Albertine statute consumed from within, many of them had suffered the prison, the exile, the police confinum, the tortures; they had seen friends die, loved ones. When the President-in-Office's statements are heard today, there are considerations related to a feeling that brings young people back to boldness, there is a boundless security, arrogance and a sense of omnipotence among the lines. This isn't happening! Between the reform of Calamandrei and that of Boschi you can not even imagine a confrontation. If we also say that the reform of the Constitution is decided by an agreement made in secret rooms, together with multiple criminals and a criminal, the outrage becomes absolute. All the power in the hands of one, so you want your country! Article 54 of the Constitution states that all citizens have a duty to be faithful to the Republic and to observe the institutions and laws; but if, instead of being faithful to republican laws, I am faithful to a man, I am already outside the duties of a citizen. Man's rule alone in command requires consenting servants, satisfied servants, like the dogs to whom a bone is thrown from time to time and they are there, ready to rip off the master on duty! Freedom is something else. Freedom is dignity, it is to respond to the highest rules, those dictated by shared norms, those dictated by wisdom and foresight. You cannot legislate for your own good or for the good of your master. Freedom does not include masters! How many people in this House today feel like a boulder to be responsible for defending our rule of law? How many senators will be aware that history is being made today? How many? And how many will be making their own thoughts in the tip of a calculator and on promises of armchairs? Gentlemen, we have a duty to touch the real needs of the country. What citizens are asking us today is more: it is the guarantee of a dignified life, a guaranteed citizenship income, for which the 5 Star Movement has been fighting in this House for two and a half years and which you continue to ignore. Evidently, this is not your priority. Mr President, I would like to say that I would be prepared to do anything to continue living in a free country. This is the dark night of our Republic! What's the point of all this? Winner takes everything! However, whoever has this power is really dangerous for republican freedom and that is why we cannot and must not make these reforms. A free people obeys but does not serve; they obey the laws but they do not serve men. He has leaders but not masters, he obeys the laws but only the laws and by virtue of the laws that he does not become a servant of men. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cucchetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2014 I did not take part in the final vote on the Boschi bill; along with me, there were thirteen other senators from the PD Group. It was a painful and painful choice, like all those who make themselves stand out from their companions. Last year I had appreciated the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the rapporteurs (Senator Finocchiaro and you, President Calderoli), in particular on the definition of the competences that the new Senate should have. But other nodal points in that bill didn't convince me. I remember some of them. I am referring first of all to the disruption of the balance, also numerical, between the House and the Senate, which went from a ratio of 1 to 2 to a ratio of 1 to 6,3. You're gonna tell me, what does it matter? It matters at the time when the two Chambers are recognized of the functions they must perform together, for example the election of the President of the Republic. Everything is concatenated; I was little convinced that the election of the President of the Republic took place in the manner in which, for now, it is defined in the Boschi bill. I was not convinced by the composition of the Senate, elected by the Regional Councils (as the bill says). It did not convince me that, in that context, the same principle of parliamentary immunity was extended to the regional senators, which is attributed to the elected directly by the people by universal suffrage, that is to say to the Members and, today, to the senators themselves. I wasn't convinced of other minor things. This is where that choice comes in. We are now called upon to discuss, and possibly amend, the text revised by the House. I must confess to you that, if this text were to remain identical in substance, I am afraid that I should turn that non-voting into a negative vote. But I trust that this will not happen. I hope, hope and believe that the conditions can be created for a vote in favour. I have to say that the stage of preparation for this debate, that is to say, for this general debate and then for what will be the examination and the approval or non-approval of the amendments, could have been better: as it has been, it has not benefited. Of course, the threat of millions of amendments may not have calmed the climate; it certainly has not calmed it. However, the decision to avoid going to the Commission could have been different even after these amendments had been withdrawn, taking into account the fact that on some important points there is a sensitivity in the public which is not perfectly aligned with the draft law that we have submitted at the moment, as is confirmed by recent surveys. I remember the last poll published by the Â"Corriere della sera", a newspaper that certainly at this stage cannot be called hostile to the Government: according to this poll, large majorities are for a Senate elected by direct universal suffrage and, at the same time, are in favour of constitutional reform going into effect. We therefore have in this House the need to improve the text that has been delivered to us by the House in order to bring the reform to fruition, not to block it. It has not helped the convergence between the different thoughts and the different sensibilities, which are quite different and - let me be honest - more noble than the search for the consent of the refugees. Emphasizing this reform as who knows what and saying that for seventy years this reform is expected by the Italians is clearly a forcing. In 1945 the war had just ended and the constituent assembly had not yet been elected, but that is not the point: we could more simply say that Italy has been trying to change its Constitution for about thirty years, evidently because it believes that the moment of representation, which has rewarded all the other needs just ended World War II, must give way to the principle and the need for governance. The problem is how much the step is given, what is the balance that must be established between the moment of representation and that of governability. Extremism is dangerous. We must strengthen the government's action - that is true - but, at the same time, we cannot cancel and reduce to a simulacrum the representation of the electoral body, which must be somehow preserved. I would add that the pressure that has been exerted on the Presidency of this House has not benefited either, which is my personal solidarity, without any indication, either formal or surreptitious, on what the Presidency's desirable decisions should be. Respect means commenting on decisions once made, not pressing for them to have one sign rather than another before they are taken. I come to the crucial points because, despite these difficulties, which I have always wanted to recall, there is the possibility of a wider convergence, of a convergence of thoughts and not of small personal interests. [[Call the president back.]] Let me conclude, Mr President, by giving me three more minutes. On Article 2 - taboo ending the day before yesterday - there is a convergence which gives voters the choice of senators, which would then be ratified by the Regional Councils. If you ask me if this is a wonderful institutional architecture, I'm telling you it isn't, but I also think you have to somehow remember that politics is the art of the possible. Even the constituent Fathers, to whom we often call ourselves, did not bring home all that each of them thought should be taken home. I also believe that on the subject of competences there may again be convergence in order to substantially restore the text that this House had fired last time, correcting what was done in Montecitorio. The last point in my speech concerns the Presidency of the Republic: it is a crucial step. The Presidency of the Republic, in the stages in which politics encounters great difficulties in doing its job in Italy, has played a central role; right or wrong, critical or appreciable, but central. It is important that this supreme judiciary remains the expression of national unity and not of a majority built through the prize provided by Italicum. This is for the good of all, of those who today are or will be in opposition. You know that the Quirinale not only has this role in relation to government policy and action, but also has the power to appoint five members of the MSC and five constitutional judges. For this reason, too, it is good that the tenant of the Quirinale can represent the country. Between 1946 and 1948, the Constitution was agreed by parties that were fiercely opposed to each other. History then told us that they even had weapons deposits; they had international fidelity against each other armies, yet the Constitution was signed by the president of the Assembly at the time, who was a communist, Umberto Terracini, while to the government there was a Christian Democrat, Alcide De Gasperi, with whom talks in the government action were completely interrupted (before there was the Government of National Unity). Yet the constituent spirit rewarded the conflicting political options. I hope that spirit will relive in the next few days. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u26	Gentlemen, this constitutional bill you're carrying out is based on lies and betrayal, but in the new language you're carrying on, it would be better to say it's based on a disinformation campaign. It is true that the Constitution gives Parliament the privilege of being able to touch the Constitution itself, but since we are the representatives of the citizens, we should first ask the citizens, perhaps writing it in the electoral programme, if we happen to want, once we have entered Parliament, to go to touch the Constitution, and not by doing it "aumm aumm," finding different numbers from time to time in Parliament. That is at least incorrect, because the only pact that we really make with the voters is the following: this is the programme and this must be continued. Instead, the program becomes rag paper a second later. It wasn't in the PD program, it wasn't in Letta's program, it wasn't even in Renzi's program: Renzi invented it at the table with Napolitano and someone else thinking well. So you're traitors, and that's the first thing. The second thing is the lie: all the reasons you have put forward to carry forward this constitutional bill, which I will now go briefly to dismantle, are lies. For example, you have said that this constitutional bill serves to speed up the legislative process, so we need a preferential lane with this constitutional change. This is false, because such tools already exist. There is the decree-law, for example: when a decree-law arrives the Conference of the Leaders I put it before everything; and moreover you have the instrument of the vote of confidence. So the preferential lane is already there and you don't need to do what you declared need to do. Then you say that this constitutional bill stabilizes governments. At last you have learned not to call it "governability" but the stability of the Executive; but it is not the same, because history teaches that, even when there was a very large parliamentary majority, there can always be causes for the dismantling of the Government. Do you remember Fini, when he decided to abandon the PdL-Lega majority? We all know how it turned out. So you can't guarantee that either. You said another dance, indeed, Renzi said it, but you repeated it at megaphone; there is the software "PD" that tells you what to say: "Repeat what Renzi says." You said that the Constitution is sixty-seven years old and needs to be changed. The Constitution has already been changed fifteen times since 1963, with fifteen constitutional laws; in the last twenty years it has been changed ten times, so it is not true that it has never been changed. Besides, you are now going to touch Title V, which was changed in 2001 and which made disasters, as you were told. Before touching the Constitution, we must go and see the effects of a change, which take place in the long term, when the Constitutional Court begins to be concerned with the problem of saying what is good and what is not. The effects of what you want to do - this constitutional "cracker" - will perhaps manifest in twenty or thirty years and we will understand only after the damage you have done, of course if someone doesn't get to fix it (and hopefully it will be us). It is not even true, therefore, that the Constitution is always the same. Then you climbed on the soapy mirror looking for parallels with other nations that have nothing to do with us (and this comes from reading your speeches on shorthand reports). You said that we should compare the Italian system and take examples from the United Kingdom, France and Germany. Congratulations! The United Kingdom is a constitutional monarchy, France is a presidential Republic and Germany is a federal state; Italy is none of the three. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You cannot, regardless of a cultural fact, go and buy completely different situations. Italy has a bicameral system that is so, that it is a rarity because our form of government is not the one that adopted others, that historically they have found themselves in a federal form (see Germany) or that they have a monarchy that has long been memorable (such as Great Britain). It's no use, then, that we go fishing for their Senate. Then you mentioned Germany - because you see that you like it, you have a kind of penis envy - saying that it is the closest model, where the Senate is not directly elected. Which is true, but there is a different electoral system there and that, of course, you have not said; you have also cleverly omitted that in the German system over 70 percent of the laws are examined in a situation of equal bicameralism, not as in the constitutional reform project, in which you plan to put a hundred people, elected or not elected (do you, so much does not make sense, because clearly this distinction is fake), to graze and you do not know well to do what. In fact, what the Senate will eventually be able to do is little or nothing, except drain resources and suck money (so much you don't pay and so it's okay anyway). Then you said what I think is the supreme ball: you need a change of Constitution to modernise the nation, which has already had, as we said, fifteen changes of Constitution. There is a nation that has the same Constitution, about, since 1789 and that turns two hundred and twenty-seven years old. I say the same Constitution because the core of this Constitution has never been changed. We are talking about the United States of America and some of you tell me that the United States of America is not a modern nation. They have a lot of flaws, but they're the most modern nation, so it's not true that the change of constitution modernises a nation. But let us look for a moment - because we must also learn from others, since you say that we must take an example - what is the mode of constitutional change in the United States of America and how it has developed over time. The mechanism is that of the amendment: the Constitution, as a parent nucleus, is not touched. This is the fundamental principle and the supreme law is not touched. In the United States so far there have been 27 changes in two hundred and twenty-seven years, only 27. What have these changes done? Did they remove or add? They have either taken power from the Commission or added civil rights. They abolished slavery, they put the vote to women, they restricted presidential mandates to two, they restricted the salaries of congressmen and senators: all of them amendments that extended the power of the people, because on their front page it says "We, the people," not "We," the people bound to what the Parliament decides, "the people is sovereign," period. The Constitution is therefore of the and for the people, not for the use and consumption of someone, in here, who comes and goes and does not know what he does. How are the changes made? This is also interesting, in fact: if you want to preserve a Constitution, you have to make it rigid in relation to the adventurer on duty. Firstly, we need a two-thirds majority both in Congress and in the Senate; in fact, 75% of the states must say yes, regardless of their popularity: a state like California, therefore, which has 38 million inhabitants, at the time of ratification, weighs exactly like the least populous state, which for the ignorant is Wyoming, which makes 500,000 inhabitants. This is in order to safeguard the principle that even the small State must have the same representation, a word absolutely unknown to you. There is more, however: you go in the sense of the centralization of power, that is, the President of the Republic must be yours, a choice of the majority (let it never be that others also get caught); and the Constitutional Court, poor, always comes after, to say that a certain law is unconstitutional. An example that always comes from that side, instead, works in another way: it is true that it is a system of common law and not jurisprudential like ours, but any law decays at the same time when it is used in a process. The Federal Courts, when there is a constitutional doubt, have the power to declare that unconstitutional law immediately, not as you do, that you make a pig like Porcellum or this Italicum or the Alfano law (and there would be an exterminated list of them!), laws that work for their own use and consumption, until, at a certain point, the Court arrives with pain and cuts them away, perhaps after a year, a year and a half, two, three or five years and more. Constitutional law, the Constitution, must be at the top of everything, not after: if it is to come first, everything that is at odds must stop. You don't have this. I also wanted to quote the fifth amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which I think is what you like most, because it allows the accused in a trial to shut up without incurring the crime of insulting the Court, because what he says could harm him. I'm sure you should put it in; On the contrary, you have already predicted that one can lie during the trial without being incriminated: in Italy, it is legitimate to lie in order to defend himself in a trial; in the United States this is unlawful. A nice fifth amendment in Italian sauce! Closed all these pleasantries, I observe the following: it has just been shown that what you would like to achieve without a reform affecting about fifty articles of the Constitution. When one realizes that excessive force is being put into constitutional change, there is a doubt that there is an underground design: we have the certainty of it; we have not yet understood it, but this is definitely there. There is no need for speed, because there is already. Do you have the problem of double trust? You can copy this on our proposal: take away the confidence of one of the two Chambers, that is, do not nail one of the two branches of Parliament to have to have a majority, so perhaps extend the parliamentary guarantee; in this way, the Members of the other House do not have the bond of majority and can find agreements in a free way on points that can be shared. What were once called variable majorities is not a wrong thing, they are the freedom of the parliamentarians, while a system like what you're drawing cage freedom, so much so that the parliamentarians become free only when there is the secret vote: incredible, isn't it? It must be done "aumm aumm": we saw it when there is the secret vow, that the majorities crumble, because you keep them with an iron fist. I have heard the speeches of several people among you who, with their trembling voice, are terrified to say that extra word which determines sanctions expulsions or transfers within the party. So you don't have freedom, and with that you definitely don't recover it. Last thing: I have not heard any of you constitutionalists say what should really be done, wanting to touch the Constitution, to expand the foundation of the Republic, that is to say, being a parliamentary Republic, a representative democracy and not a presidential system. How can we increase Parliament's prerogatives? This is a question to which you have not answered, or rather, you have done so by saying: "Increasing the strength of the Government." Bravo, that's exactly the opposite. Or, how do you actually make the people sovereign? By increasing the means of direct democracy: whenever you can - and you can practically always - you go to the citizen and ask him: What do you think? Don't tell me that it can't be done or that this isn't an evolved country thing, because Switzerland does it: people vote at the post office with a badge and don't tell us that this is a complicated system. But you have also reduced these spaces by compressing the methods and systems of direct democracy that the Constitution also provides for. But again, the possibility of expanding the faculties of local authorities - since you say that the Senate should represent these "fake" autonomy - means going to touch Title V that you have already touched with the supremacy clause, that is, attributing more power to the center. You might as well get rid of these wheelchairs called Regions if you don't recognize any power in the end. Moreover, there is a constitutional jurisprudence that helps to understand now how to modify Title V by eliminating all the clauses of unconstitutionality due to competition between the laws of the State and the regional laws; but also this is an unknown one. You have punctuated yourself with your fake minority of the Democratic Party Group on the electivity of the Senate: a game of the parties. Don't tell me your problem is that senators are not elected. What's the point of electing people who don't do anything? Delete this system. Senator Fabbri then said that there are too many MPs compared to the number of people and brought China into play, which has 1,300 million inhabitants. You don't know that and so I tell you: the smaller the population, the more this relationship changes. Portugal has a population of 10 million against our 60 million, but it does not have a sixth of our Members: it has two hundred, that is a third. If the population were 1000 people, using the proportionality that you brought into play, the number of representatives should be zero. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Before you shoot random numbers, you should think about it. Last bite. You said that the number of Members needed to be reduced in order to save money. That's right, sacrosanct. In the Chamber of Deputies the maximum historical number of MPs present was four hundred and seventy-eight; never more than four hundred and seventy-eight. It was enough to predict a cut over this number and you would have recovered all the parliamentarians you would like to cut; by predicting a cut even for the Senate you would have managed to preserve it. Even the part about saving, so we disassembled it. Now I want to launch a challenge: propose something else that has a little more credibility because the credibility of what you have proposed so far is zero proof of this by the fact that I, who recently arrived, dismantled it without too much effort. As for the constitutionalists you have audited in the Commission (Senator Finocchiaro spoke of thirty constitutionalists) it is true that they have been audited, but you have not told what they have told you, namely that this reform is a sewer. Since you do not say it, I say it then: this reform is a sewer and we must tell the citizens! Then the citizen hopes that he will take it down with the referendums even though we hope that you will go "print" first. This is a wish I wish you with my heart. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u27	Senator Perrone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today you of the Government and the majority are making your own Constitution. You have prepared it and you want to approve it yourself, thinking only of your needs, your opinions and your relations within your majority. This was supported by President Mattarella in 2005 when another majority tried to change the Constitution. We know well how it ended and we know at the same time how much reform of the Constitution is more and more necessary for this country. The President stressed in his speech the need for a shared reform, pointing out that: Once again, on this occasion, emerges the conception that belongs to this Government and this majority, according to which the winner of the elections owns the institutions, is the owner of it. Those statements by the President appear more truthful today than ever, and it is therefore precisely to the President of the Republic that I ask him to intervene in order to guarantee, not to us but to the citizens, a Constitution that lives up to the history of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, today I therefore ask myself and ask you: where are all those constituent Fathers who were ready to take up arms in those years? Mr President, we are witnessing the mortification of the Constitution and the arrogance of those who want to make this House a wax museum. We are faced with the presumption of those who say: "I vote alone" as if modifying the Constitution is a biased act. We in the Conservative and Reformist Group want - yes - to help improve our Constitution, but with the participation of majority and opposition, because, President Renzi, with this abnormal reform we decide today to discuss the foundations of the constitutional architecture of our Republic. I use the term "anomala" because it must explain to us what kind of reform is the one that plans to revise the Special Statutes of the Regions without indicating its times, nor instruments. Does it not seem out of place to maintain today the Regions with special statutes, which were imagined in a different era and social context from the current ones? Today it is time to discuss and decide the day and year in which to repeal them definitively determining, as a result, the constitution of macro-regions. Let us start from here, that is, from the need to give a real signal to the citizens. The regions are seen as enormous machines of waste of public resources; they must be redesigned and this is what the reform must focus on. Let's review and reduce, to follow, the number of senators but, please, let's get them elected by citizens! Let us now consider - I stress, now - what a Senate could be made up of regional councillors and, above all, mayors. But do you have any idea what it's like to be mayor? Of course, if you do so simply by dedicating yourself to catwalks and representational meetings, the mayor can come to Rome and be a senator, but also the President of the Council. If, on the other hand, the mayor is committed to trying to give answers to the citizens - who among you, colleagues, has been lucky enough to play this role knows well what I am talking about - then it will be impossible to do the two things right. Do you want to overcome the coexistence of two rooms? Well come, but we have not really understood what you want to do with the House we are in: a meeting point where regional councillors and mayors can meet to discuss more and less? Yes, I forgot Renzi, who wants to make it a museum, without any respect for this institution of the Italian Parliament. What skills are left to the Senate? That of intervening on constitutional reforms and electoral laws, just to give a minimum of social commitment to those who will sit in the Chamber? Can we really believe that with this reform we will overcome the alleged restrictions due to the co-existence of two Chambers? Mr President, with this reform we will probably give Italy a new bicameralism, but it will be lame, messy and perhaps - indeed, certainly - unconstitutional. At this point, we suppress the Senate and make sense of this miscarriage of reform that you are giving us. We laugh at the sovereignty of the people, who have the right to vote for their representatives in all institutions. Precisely because we believe that this principle is fundamental, we have tabled amendments that put total sovereignty in the hands of the people, allowing, among other things, by amending Article 21 of the bill, to amend Article 83 of the Constitution, in the matter of the election of the President of the Republic, where the majorities necessary for his election are redesigned. We are well aware of the importance of having come to determine in the Parliamentary Assembly, in particular historical moments, the unity between the different groups for the election of the President of the Republic, but we are also convinced that if this unity does not come after five ballots, then it is right that the election takes place directly by the will of the people (vox populi, vox Dei). In short, Mr President, today the Constitution must be amended and its reform is necessary but with the contribution of all and without the presumption of being the holders of the truth, also because, to put it to the Calamandrei, when the Assembly will publicly discuss the new Constitution, the benches of the Government will have to be empty. AIROLA (M5S). That's right! There's only one guy who talks to his cell phone and doesn't hear! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, please don't bother. PERRONE (CoR). Your reform, and I conclude, is the prelude to unclear pages that create disturbance in us. It would even be appropriate to swear again before the Constitution even before amending it, citing a colleague of ours who was telling of how, a few hours after the vote by which the Assembly instructed me to lead the Democratic Party, I swore on the Constitution, an act that normally a party secretary is not required to do. If I have done so, it is because today the President-in-Office of the Council has in mind a country in which power is increasingly concentrated in the hands of one person. This is against the Constitution to which he has sworn allegiance. That colleague was Minister Franceschini, Minister of this Government. I hope, Mr Renzi, that you will learn from your older colleagues what is the respect that is due to the institutions of the Republic and our Constitution, but even earlier to the Italian people. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, citizens, the first consideration I make is how many words have been spoken in this House. It is a very large number and only in the end will we be able to count them all. But, as it should be, the problem is how many words, of those uttered, have actually been heard. In our opinion, very few words have been heard. There is a fault behind all this, a fault that led to this reform. This guilt is to be attributed to two main elements. [[Brusio from the FI-PdL XVII Group.]] Mr President, can you ask colleagues to lower their voices? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I understand the enthusiasm aroused by the intervention of Senator Perrone, but you must allow Senator Lucidi to carry out his speech, despite the standing ovation in progress. LUCIDES (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. As I said, there are two fundamental elements in the search for faults. The first element that has led to this disaster, and which has great blame, must be identified in the parliamentarians: therefore, in you, who are ex-Bersanians and former Berlusconians, and today you have all become Renzians. The fault for which Parliament does not exist is obviously yours. To date, 50% of the 2,644 address documents we have submitted to the government have not been answered. Only 50 percent of them have found answers, but this does not bother you. If we go to see the number of measures and draft laws, the situation is even more dramatic. In this parliamentary term 5,167 draft laws were presented, of which more than 600 were presented by the PD alone. In the XVI legislature 8.977 draft laws were presented; in the XV legislature 5.388; in the XIV 9.433; in the XIII, 11.859 draft laws, for a total of about 40,000 draft laws presented in recent years. A huge and incredible number. This only makes us realize that all these years have been spent in Parliament's idleness, that it has done absolutely nothing but to present weird bills that have never been discussed. This, as my colleague Mr Martelli mentioned, leads to a fundamental problem: the conflict between the electoral programme and the legislative programme of the parliamentary groups. It is clear that these numbers I have just mentioned are the result of a chaotic political design, without an address, which, also thanks to the Chamber Regulations, assigns powers to individuals to the detriment of collective agreements. It is clear that it would be quite different to have a Parliament composed of parliamentary groups with Members and senators who legislate not in a personalistic and casual way but in a collective way towards a point of reference that should be the implementation of the electoral programme and the respect of the needs of the country, especially at times like these. The electoral program, I remind you, is the contract that you have established with your voters, a contract that you have not respected. According to a chronological sequence, an electoral programme is proposed, a government program on which the electoral people vote and their trust. This programme will then be reflected in Parliament's legislative action and put into effect by the Government, an indication of this, which has never been respected. It seems clear to me that the current scenario is totally different and therefore confirms my vision. The first fault, therefore, must certainly be put to the Members not only of this parliamentary term but also of the previous ones, as we have seen from the numbers. The other fault, on the other hand, must be addressed clearly to the President of the Renzi Council, that others is not but an attempt to respond to the political system at the entry of the 5 Star Movement into this Parliament, because we must agree at least on one point: if we had not arrived here to disturb your idleness and ease and your privileges, you would now still be all Berliners convinced - on this we must agree - while Renzi would still be squirming to find his place, probably in some transmission of Maria De Filippi or on some island or to shoot clumsy and offended. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is what your President-in-Office of the Council does. The last one dates back a few days ago when he said that television broadcasts such as "MasterChef" have brought Italian cuisine to the fore. Shame! It is an offense to all the hotels that have been working in this country for years. I extend a warm greeting to all the students of the hotel institutions, other than Master Chef! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Dear President Renzi, to destroy a person like you just cut the power, and then the problems of Italy would be solved! In fact, though, could we say that Renzi, like us, finds a dying Parliament and what does it do? Instead of restoring dignity and sovereignty to the citizens, as we of the 5 Star Movement would like to do, it hurles against an empty Parliament and redesigns it for its use and consumption. So we started, in previous legislatures, from a government that did the interests of Berlusconi and we continue to do them even today because, as you all know, the Ministry of Economic Development is governed by Forza Italia, so we continue to do the interests of Berlusconi. Then we went to the Monti government that was doing Europe's interests and now we have this Renzi government that cares for the interests of both of them, but it certainly does not care for the interests of the citizens. I would like to ask you, then, what does it really mean to care for the interests of citizens, to be close to citizens and to listen to citizens? We do not claim to teach it but I can certainly tell you that in recent days Caritas has rewarded the work of the 5 Star Movement and has rewarded our economic proposal, which is called citizenship income: a concrete proposal. That means listening to the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] At this point in the debate, I leave my conclusion to the record, which is a conviction and also a wish and a wish for all of us citizens. In many of your past speeches dating back to the previous reform (when I don't remember if you were communists, left-wing democrats or anything else) you hurled at the reform planned by the Berlusconi Government, which Senator Perrone probably doesn't remember because he repeated the same words as his colleagues said against the Berlusconi reform. So you should clear your head. I, however, have a certainty: my speech and all those of the other citizens spokesperson of the 5 Star Movement will never be used against us when, in some time, we will be in the government and we will reform the Italian Constitution, doing so, however, together with the citizens while you are finally being sent all home! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u31	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u32	Mr President, Senators present, the Italian Constitution is a future-oriented programme. This is his strength, but it is also his weakness. Obviously the political class did not have the ability to work in the direction of the construction of a country in which it was really realized, but worked on the front of its weakness to manage it materially and in a self-referential way, reaching the peak raised with the moral question, placed by Berlinguer with his act of accusation never resolved. The Constitution delayed, unenforced, betrayed and imprisoned. Many forces have tried to block it from the outset and paradoxically the most harmful have perhaps been the continuing proposals for constitutional reforms, accompanied by speeches aimed at denouncing its inadequacy and the need to adapt it to the new. None of the ruling political caste paid the price of the failure to fulfil and its enchantment, pushed until the inclusion of the balance of the budget, financial metastasis, inserted in Article 81 to obey the stepmother Europe, stepmother neither political nor democratic, after years of theft, waste and tangles not yet concluded. Today it is up to the child climber to put his hand in it: the scraper of what disturbs him, a scraper not of what he needs. He will soon tweet to us the articles of the new reform and we will have to undergo his selfies with the Commission professors, once approved. The report by the Committee on Constitutional Reform considers that without the parties a democratic system is not even conceivable; and why should it, dear professors? That's the basic mistake. The self-preservation of the species "politans." Is it written in Article 1 of our catatonic patient, the unfilled Grail, which is the Italian Constitution, that sovereignty belongs to parties? No, my endangered senators. Sovereignty belongs to the people. The Constitution has a duty to regulate its forms, not to increase its limits. The people, this strange organism digitally nourished that we don't even hear anymore. Do you think that it is enough for a narrow article 49, which does not even trace the basic democratic rules for the constitution of a party worthy of the Constitution and the word democracy? An article 49 that has not dared to touch in any way, leaving everyone free to create corporate and anti-democratic organizational monsters, the least transparent and autocratic, the most populists and hypocrites ever seen in recent years? All free to create those parties, so well described by Simone Weil in the manifesto for their suppression, almost a hundred years ago. Political parties are machines to manufacture collective passion, they are organizations built in such a way as to exert a collective pressure on the thought of each of us and have, as their ultimate and not unique goal, their own growth, without any limit. In doing so, they overturn the relationship between the end and the medium, forgetting that only good is an end. I repeat, only good is an end. They become self-referential from the moment of birth, all, none excluded. Simone Weil continues by saying that, as far as the vagueness of doctrine is concerned, both the most inconsistent parties and those more rigidly organized are all identical; other than indispensable necessity. The man who agrees to join a party gradually also accepts positions that he ignored or even contested, until accepting them all, gradually. This is the main evil of the parties and movements that become it: the loss of light, the loss of consciousness. 11:25 a.m. (Bignami followed). Unfortunately, these days we are having a further taste of it, witnessing the blackmail of consciences and, even worse, the purchase of thought. Dear colleagues at the epilogue, everything comes from the party crisis. But the crisis of the parties is not a symptom of the illness of the institutions: the parties themselves are the evil to be cured and changed. The symptoms are confused with the causes and you want to cure the symptoms. Will we ever find a Christian lamb? In the Commission's report we are still talking about bipolarism, or tempered bipolarism, but we are using a post-ideological word. If we want to play oxymorons, let's do it. Well, the words bipolarism or tripolarism (which are not related to the bipolar disorder or tripolar disorder of many political and non-political leaders) have nothing to do with post-ideologicalism and cannot be associated with a democracy that is modern and such. We are faced with a mess, for which we cannot even see a democratic relationship with the work of the Commission itself. The report also continues with other contradictions. On the one hand, there is talk of strengthening the prerogatives of the Government in Parliament through "mono-carnival" confidence, simplifying the decision-making process and introducing the final vote on a fixed date; on the other hand, there is talk of strengthening the instruments of direct democracy. But what direct democracy? Directed by who? My friends of the 5 Star Movement still have to understand that the word "direct" is not a verb. Let's start with the point about bicameralism, the fateful article 2. We would have liked a substantial reduction in the two chambers, with a federal orientation of the second, based on a system of local territorial representativeness, as well as a reduction of 50% of the elected representatives in the first chamber. We would have liked a proportional electoral system without barriers, with small colleges and absolutely open lists, without appointed heads. And then we have to explain to Senator Taverna that respect for minorities is not resolved by expulsions. On the other hand, we want to reduce the second House of Parliament to a second-degree group of elected representatives in the same way as the horrifying system that we have seen used for the last provincial elections; a system which is coalescing with the imaginative process of strengthening and regenerating the political parties, mentioned by the Commission, which makes them able to dialogue within themselves and - I add - capable of building the most absurd alliances externally. Please! If we have to attend a peacock like this to keep a palace and all its carriage on its feet, without the elect being chosen by the sovereign people, we might as well close the carriage, send home the scarring and requalify all the employees, perhaps transforming it into a beautiful museum. Yes, a wax puppet museum, to remember that once someone was there. If we really want to create a clean Senate, without giving or contracting immunity to mayors or regional councillors, then accept my amendment which proposes to draw them according to the same principles. It seems that mathematics is really the best method, because the real statistic, the one that follows the draw, obeys the rules of mathematics and, therefore, reduces corruption and is truly representative: it is difficult to convince a Gaussian curve to move the hump, promising him something in return, dear colleagues. Did you want a real change? The 16-year-olds could be given the vote, thus widening the plebiscite even to the youngest, able to regenerate the national spirit and acquire greater awareness and political responsibility, but here the 5 Stars are frightening you. Why will the Members of Parliament no longer represent the nation? Why abandon one of the most important concepts from the birth of the French Constitution of 1791? Maybe because they haven't represented you in years? To think about it, ironically, it is a correct adaptation of Article 67 of the Constitution to today's times. I do not want to omit all that I have to say, since the time available to me is about to end, I would ask that the remaining part of my speech be published in the Annex to the Reports of today's sitting and I begin with the conclusion. We have asked for the electronic collection of signatures for referendums and the elimination of quorum. You will entrust to one House the declaration of the state of war. Do you realize that? We have proposed a constitutional referendum to combat such madness, that is, to entrust to a single House the declaration of war, House exclusively made for the majority of nominations. This is crazy. You have grossly assigned the possibility of a law on the proposed referendum to the House, while you have filled with rules, rules and palettes the methods of managing the activity of the future Senate, relegating it to institutional minority contingent in ways and times. These are the competences of the "disSennato": constitutional laws, electoral laws, few territorial functions and linguistic minorities. That's it? Come on, you're just doubling the State-Regions Conference, giving it a high-sounding name to make the participants happy, even giving it colorful buttons to crush. I imagine the senators gathered around a table, like Benigni and Troisi in a famous film, writing a letter of "consult" to the House. They will have ten days to do so, with their heads under your feet and I repeat with their heads under your feet. But they'll be happy with the immunity, that's a gift. Yeah, and for us... well, all we have to do is cry. And then we talk about strengthening direct democracy? Please... Look at Switzerland if you want to learn something about direct democracy. I suggest to those in this room who use the term direct democracy to ask for dispensation for use. Even Article 67 is not applied in this room, without bothering Bobbio, for whom no other constitutional rule has ever been more violated than this. And these days we've had proof of it, of the blackmail, threats and promises. And, as Gramsci wrote, for many politicians the crisis of conscience is nothing more than an expired bill of exchange or the desire to open a current account. Let us not forget if you really want to have the citizens, the sovereign people, exercise democracy. Begin to respect what the citizens have asked for. Our door is open! We are open to dialogue! This is the mantra repeated by the officers, who I listened to trying to figure out where the doll's disc could be. None of everything that we have proposed and nothing of anything that even the common sense of a part of your minority has proposed has been taken into account. Thank God you can't ask for trust and who knows what effort it costs to Peter Pan of PD. The constituent Fathers would shudder in the face of lightness and facery, as well as stubbornness, with which you are putting your hand to the document that is the only, true pillar of our nation. We too are for reforms, for the modification of certain points and, above all, for a greater and clear separation of powers. We want to remind you that this is a document which is the fruit of a great Constituent. Aristotle said that democracy is the government of the poor, of the non-possessed, while oligarchy is the government of the rich. That, in his view, is regardless of the number, while I add that in general the poor are more than the rich and are usually lower. Don't turn the Senate into a "sedate," please. I conclude by saying: good, congratulations, yours is not a change, but it is a constitutional reform. You have changed the form of the Constitution; in fact, it is no longer democratic, much less representative. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, Senator Bignami. We've given her some extra space, but it has to stop. If you want, you can say the final sentence. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). It is clear that I will vote no to this reform. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator De Pin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u33	Senator Bignami, the Presidency authorizes you to hand over the remainder of your speech and thanks you for your helpfulness.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u34	She's registered to speak Senator Bottici. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u35	Mr President, these days I have heard all the internal and external debate that has taken place around the constitutional reform that we are about to vote on in the coming days. It is not easy to speak quietly on this subject. As Senator Fornaro said, the inadequacy we can feel is a lot, but we can't back down. As parliamentarians, despite our election by means of an unconstitutional law - in fact, we should only legislate on ordinary matters and not on a constitutional reform - we have the duty, that duty which you have incorporated into Article 64 of the Constitution, to participate in the work of the Assembly and the Commissions and thus make our contribution. It was 22 February 2014 when Renzi became President of the Council of Ministers and after a short time, precisely on 8 April 2014, together with Minister Boschi, he presented the constitutional reform: forty articles that modify the constitutional structure of our country. In forty - five days - and I repeat forty - five days - considering also Saturdays and Sundays, they were able to write almost one article a day. Any phenomena or wallpapers? Who really wrote this reform? Who is interested in transforming our Constitution so radically? I am sorry that Mr Boschi or Mr Renzi are not here to answer us. No political force has escaped the confrontation, if not the power of government, which has imposed its time and its arguments by making considerable, not to say unpublished, pressures not only to the entire Parliament, but even to the President of the Senate, who - I am sorry to say - will not react by imposing his own role as guarantor, as he did not during the examination of the law of stability, when I personally asked him to interrupt the work of the Chamber because there were no pieces in the text and the technical report was wrong. But that's another story. Let us come to constitutional reform. At the first announcement it was presented as the solution to all Italy's problems with the slogan: With the abolition of the Senate, a billion savings are being made. Then Mr. Renzi realized that he had gone too far and, as they say in Florence, had fired a bomb, that is, a lie, a lie. 11:38 a.m. (BOTTIC FOLLOWS). The Senate has a budget of about EUR 550 million, or just over half a billion. The 550 million includes the costs of the palaces, the vitality of former senators who do not want to abolish, the pensions of former employees, as well as the salaries of current employees and Minister Boschi know this well, since some parliamentary advisers, currently located at his or other ministerial staff, are paid directly by the Senate. Speaking of employees, you have provided for in the transitional rules the unique role of the employees of the two chambers but, after the judgments of internal justice - we apply domestic justice here - on appeals for salary ceilings, there is no longer the same economic treatment as employees. If a single administration had been created, with a true unification of services and organigrams, not only would it have saved itself on costs, but we would have had a more streamlined and functional administration, without duplication. In the same rule you have established that the Chambers also define by common agreement the rules governing employment contracts under the organised formations of Members of Parliament, as provided for in the Regulations. Are you talking about the staff currently employed by the parliamentary groups? You forgot the employees who have been working with the Senate for years with a fixed-term contract. What about the collaborators of the individual Members of Parliament? For them, the precarious will never end. Are you thinking of making a new resolution like that of 1993, by President Spadolini in the Senate or by President Napolitano in the Chamber, in which you "constrict" the parliamentary groups to hire the old employees? Let's wait. Or do you want to do as in Tuscany, where it was planned that the employees of the board groups should be chosen mainly by the old employees of the previous groups? Can we for once protect all workers or do we want to continue to wage a war against each other? We always wait. Certainly the senate employees will help the new senators, as you have foreseen that, for some matters, bicameralism will continue to exist, with the Commission, which I want to see how you will form. And then some mayors and regional councillors already hurt their work. Let alone the time-lost senators! This is not a true overcoming of equal, but only partial, bicameralism. For months you have been talking about overcoming bicameralism because this method does not work, but today you can no longer say that the legislative process is slow and does not work. The Boccadutri law, which allows you to receive public funding without having the expenses and revenues verified, passed a few days ago in the Chamber of Deputies, is already under discussion in the competent committee in the Senate. So the legislative process, when it suits you, works fine. Be honest. You have been able - indeed, it is a vice of the Government - to give the function of Controller to the Controller. With the amendment to Article 55 you provide that the Senate of the Republic, composed of regional councillors and mayors, will contribute to the evaluation of public policies and activities of public administrations, that is, the work of the Regions and the Municipalities. It's like the defendant is judging himself, and you've also granted him immunity. We're insane. In Article 6, amend Article 64 by including the period: The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies govern the statute of oppositions. I don't dare think what you've made up. I'm really scared. And don't tell us you want to guarantee the rights of the opposition. You've touched the workers' statute and you've made it worse. Imagine if you want to give the opposition the opportunity to speak and influence parliamentary work. This is your reform, that is what Berlusconi failed to do, because the whole left had called the citizens together to vote no to the referendum. For the 5 Star Movement, democracy needs more. It needs propositive referendums, referendums without quorums and an honest and uncensored Parliament. It needs the right balance between the powers of the State: legislative power (making laws), that is Parliament; executive power (making them execute), that is the Government; judicial power (judge if they are respected), that is the judiciary. Instead, you're doing everything you can to take this country apart. I had a big problem these days: I wrote and rewrote my emotions and, then, at some point I realized that I had finished the swearing, because only this you deserve. And after Mr Martelli's careful analysis, I no longer know whether to laugh or cry because of the madness you show. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Government, what we are doing in the Senate is almost empty and rhetorical. In fact, we already know the fate of this constitutional reform or - let us call it what it is - constitutional change, because reform already requires positive progress. These constitutional changes will be approved by a majority vote, making a mess of any proposal that could be made in the Commission. There is, in fact, a problem of both method and content. It was possible to talk about the merit in these classrooms, but very little in the country. And I invite you to reflect on how little professors, professors, constitutionalists and illustrious lawyers have gone into or had room on the media to explain to the citizens what level of constitutional change we are facing. [[Brusio. References by the President]] Mr President, it is not a problem: they are agreeing, there is a further sale. [[Applause from Senator Bottici]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u38	It is possible to do so in silence. Disturbing, it is not allowed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u39	[[Comments of Senator D'Anna]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Of course, and on that too we will go to displeasure. You invite Senator D'Anna to continue his sale, which is now very congenial. [[Comments of Senator D'Anna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u40	Senator Candiani, speak to me. Let us confine ourselves to reforms, so that we can move on.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u41	D'ANNA (AL-A). What are you talking about? President, how do you allow Senator Candiani to say these things in here? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Anna, sit down. [[Senator D'Anna's comments.]] CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Senator D'Anna is nervous because he is realizing that his votes will count for nothing and will not give him space in the future Senate or even in the Chamber of Deputies... D'ANNA (AL-A). Buffoon, file a complaint. Don't be a clown. AIROLA (M5S). Singing chicken made the egg. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). ...because he lent himself to a game... [[Senator D'Anna's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u42	Senator D'Anna, stop! I'll call you back! It is not possible that every time the intervention of a member of the opposition takes place, this question will arise. Sit down and let me intervene. [[Senator D'Anna's comments.]] D'ANNA (AL-A). You, Mr President, must not allow such an intervention to offend the senators. Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Candiani. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Thank you, President. We were saying, the scenery is perfect for the perfect crime. D'ANNA (AL-A). This has lost the "capa."
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u43	This is a country that is basically exhausted, in which the renziana illusion of an easy exit from the crisis and the overcoming of atavic imbalances has quickly replaced the short, forced and irreconclusive season of the technicians to the "Monti-Fornero," donated as an antidote to the damages of certain corrupt politics, sold, however, as a system paradigm. [[Repented comments by Senator D'Anna]] It is a prefect scenario, Mr President, to disrupt the system of democratic counterweights, giving every responsibility to the elected democratic institutions, identified and designated as new anointers, of course, to be eliminated. There has been talk of savings, because this too has been a reason that the Government, the President of the Council of Ministers, has put on the ground to support this constitutional reform. At this moment we are in a "democratic regime" of prefect bicameralism: six hundred and thirty on one side and three hundred and fifteen on the other. If it had been a matter of savings, it would have been possible, as we proposed, to reduce the number of deputies and senators or - if we wanted to go further - to close the Chamber of Deputies as a whole (six hundred and thirty) or to close the Senate of the Republic (three hundred and fifteen). D'ANNA (AL-A). It would be enough to hunt fools like you and we'd be fine. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Enough, Senator D'Anna! If you want out, no one's holding you back. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). What do you want? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Arrigoni, don't worry. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Senator D'Anna wants to do the shows. He won't miss a chance. Thank you, Mr President. We're not breaking up. We'll see worse, I'm afraid. As I said, the Senate could also be closed. We had proposed this in the first reading: it would have been better. Let us give citizens a clear message: the time of perfect bicameralism is over, it breaks and there is a monocamera, end. This reform, on the other hand, is a messy one, for which there is no reason for saving expenditure, which is not there, nor for the democratic burdens and counterweights, which are seriously affected, after this reform, if the substantive amendments, which deal with the balance between the institutions, are not accepted. We know, Mr President, that the combined arrangement with Italicum - a law supported by this majority and also, unfortunately, by sectors of the opposition who were illusory to be able to dialogue democratically with it - will lead the future Parliament to be substantially decided by a single decision-maker, the party secretary who will win the elections and who, in this way, may have submitted the easy election of the President of the Republic. The other constitutional guarantee bodies (Constitutional Court and Supreme Council of the judiciary) will of course be subject to this and, in this way, will go to be blessed the burdens and counterweights that, since the time of the French revolution, are put to the garrison of democratic freedoms. As I said, Mr President, we are living in a period of great crisis, which is a crisis of representation of democratic systems and a crisis that is not only typical of this country, but of the whole system of democratic representation: I am thinking of the crisis of the UN and of the European Union itself, which we are seeing in these days totally inactive compared to the dramas that are disrupting the globe. Someone may not have noticed it yet, but there are wars going on, even without seeing the military in the streets. Faced with this, democratic representation is failing. It is clear then that, in the face of this crisis of representation, in the dismay of the people, the opportunity opens up for turns that I would also call "pseudoauthoritariani": better to make decisions and that there is only one man who decides for everyone and for the good of all, rather than an irreconcilable democracy, that does not solve problems. We are concerned about this, Mr President, because it is not in the illusion of the choice of man only at the command that the salvation of the democratic relationship will lie, but in the fact that the institutions can be put in a position to operate. Of course we need democratic reforms and changes to the Constitution: who does not agree today to update it? However, we are in the paradox of a country which, unlike the French Republic, has failed to move from the first to the second Republic and from the second to the third. This is the real problem: the country's ability to metabolize the need for reforms without throwing democratic values at sea. What happens then, Mr President? Simple: in the total indifference and in the gap of democratic representation that has opened up, the charlatans too are going to review the Constitution, with effects that unfortunately I fear we will pay over time. And we must also think about what is at the origin of the government that is reforming and amending the Constitution: it is based on deception. We all remember the passage of deliveries between the then President of the Council Letta and the current President of the Council Renzi, based on deception, with that "be serene" that will be written in the history books. That, Mr President, in a normal country, deception cannot be the basis of constitutional reform. With good peace from Senator D'Anna and the others who, with him, put themselves at the service of President Renzi, the paradox is that we are not in 1948, when opposing factions found themselves in agreement for a democratic Constitution, which gave the country democratic stability. We find ourselves instead with a Constitution that will be modified after they have been taken deceptions under the table, with the sale of senators and people passing from one side to the other for a bowl of rice [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni]] - That's what's happening - to get to the end of the legislature and secure your pension! But what serious country would accept that this was the basis of constitutional changes? There is no more debate about merit or content here, but only about the length and duration of the legislature. Unfortunately, outside, citizens are totally unaware of this and unfortunately, due to the economic crisis, they are also indifferent to the content of these constitutional changes. It is true, in fact, that the economic crisis prevents citizens from paying attention to an important issue such as that of the Constitution, and Renzi is included in this area. Mr President, if this reform goes through, we will have an abysmal imbalance: until now it has been said that the changes made to the Constitution have created litigation between the State and the Regions. We will then have litigation between the Regions and the State. That's not how you change the system. The counterweights of democratic representation shall not be removed. And some Senators of the People's Area Group (NCD-UDC) have already shown that they have the courage to say "no" if democratic representation is lacking, the choice of senators by citizens. Have the courage to do so all because, with the next electoral system, none of you will be re-elected in this Parliament and you will have thrown democracy to sea, because taking citizens away from the possibility of choosing who will sit in this Senate means taking away democratic freedom. Take courage! By addressing me instead to the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà Group XVII Legislatura that has repented, after having supported this constitutional change, I say: make clarity within you; you cannot oppose alternate hours. We must be serious opponents of this Government, because it is not at the end of the legislature the democratic guarantee of the country, but in the garrison of the certainty that citizens can choose, in the garrison that our institutions will not be enslaved to the only man in command. Well, Mr President, I would like to mention a famous phrase from Calamandrei: If you want to go on a pilgrimage to the place where our Constitution was born, go to the mountains, where the partisans fell, to the prisons where they were imprisoned, to the fields where they were hanged. Wherever an Italian died to redeem freedom and dignity go there, or young people, with thought, because our Constitution was born there. I wonder what will be said about this constitutional reform: go and look for the senators among the fearful, among those who did not have the courage to oppose, among those who, in order to safeguard themselves, voted for this Constitution. Is that the memory you want to leave this legislature? Is it the memory you want to leave of your being senators in this Senate? I appeal to you to say that this cannot be the case. A reform cannot be included in the list of blackmailers, because this would not be worthy of a democratic history such as the one behind this Senate. Our country is full of injustices, Mr President: it is a country full of injustices that ask to be avenged, a country where the Forces of Order are no longer able to play their role without being incriminated; a country where citizens are killed by the mafia, are forgotten by the institutions; a country in which those who work their whole lives are abandoned by the State at the time when they would be entitled to retirement. Our country is not a country that needs these democratic changes. Some time ago, citizens were asked what they thought of the Constitution. Well, 72% of young citizens have stated that Article 3 is the most betrayed by the Constitution. We are talking about what is planned - I remind this House - for the Republic to be responsible for removing economic and social obstacles. This is the article that 72 percent of young people view as the most unexpected. But we are not dealing with Article 3. Today we are talking about constitutional changes that have nothing to do with economic recovery and the well-being of our citizens. So, in the face of all this - I repeat once again - we must defend the garrison and the constitutional guarantees. I appeal to you, Mr Grasso, to do your job freely. Don't let him press you. Leave the dignity of choice to the senators of this Senate. You do not subject yourself to the blackmail of anyone who would like you to be a slave to a system that does not provide constitutional freedoms. And to the other actors of this constitutional change I repeat, appealing to them: be free in the choices; not bound your choices to the simple pull to live for a legislature that cannot pass to history like the one that betrayed the values of constitutional freedoms. If this fails, the entire establishment of a Constitution at the base of a free country will be missing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u44	She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u45	Mr President, as you know, the 5 Star Movement Group was immediately opposed to the changes to the Constitution required by this Government, because we immediately intercepted the danger of the same, even if it was easy to intuit it or, at least, it was for us. An Executive that wants to amend the Constitution is a reason for maximum alarm. We have widely denounced and explained these changes in every place - in Parliament, in the Italian squares and through the press and the Internet - and we will continue to do so until we stop them, because we consider them not only not right and not necessary, but harmful to the country. As everyone will remember, we were also immediately opposed to the famous amendment to Article 138 of the Constitution. I am referring to the initiative promoted during the Letta Government and strongly wanted by the former president Napolitano, who established even the least famous essays. I say less famous, because today no one remembers them anymore, but they are always here among us and are also part of the majority that supports the Government. In short, the essays nominated by Napolitano were ten men chosen from politicians and bankers and the political parties involved were the Democratic Party, the Northern League, the People of Freedom and Civic Choice. Luckily for the Italians, the 5 Star Movement blew up that plan that wanted to banish the Constitutional Charter in an apparently illegitimate way and sent home the first government of this legislature, that is, the Led Government. In order not to make the people express again with the vote and therefore denying him its constitutional right as sovereign, and despite the declaration of unconstitutionality of the electoral law by which this Parliament was elected, the former President Napolitano made the President of the Council in office Enrico Letta disappear from the evening to the morning and placed another, without giving any official reason. To date, in fact, there is no document or news of press where the reason for the replacement of the former President of the Council and former deputy of the Democratic Party Enrico Letta is explained. This reason can, however, be sought and found by bringing together the events and now I will try to make it clear, combining the facts that have happened. The maneuver was so obscure to the Italian citizens that Renzi's arrival was announced in a document of the Union of Swiss Banks (UBS) even before he was appointed. The document was dated 7 January 2014, Letta was removed on 14 February and Renzi was appointed on 22 February: more than a month earlier, therefore, the Swiss banks knew and issued a public document that talked about the work that Renzi would do. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Also on January 7, 2014 (then on the same day of the release of this document) the news agencies in Italy beat the following news: Government: Renzi-Monti lunch in Florence, confrontation on pacts and reforms. The secretary of the PD and mayor of Florence, Matteo Renzi, received today at lunch at Palazzo Vecchio the life senator Mario Monti. The long and cordial conversation, which followed similar meetings at Palazzo Chigi when Monti was President of the Council, concerned the strategic perspectives of European and Italian politics (...). Renzi and Monti then exchanged views on institutional reforms, in particular on the three electoral reform options presented in recent days by the secretary of the PD and on the role of the Senate in the future institutional architecture, on which it was agreed to deepen the dialogue in a short period of time. Therefore, Renzi was already received at Palazzo Chigi when the President of the Council was Monti (he too - let's remember - never elected, but appointed by the former president Napolitano). Already this is enough to make anyone understand that, in this story, there is no trace of popular will, being instead evident a design, a hand and an extra-Parliament and extra-Italy will that move everything from above. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The certainty is given by Matteo Renzi himself, intercepted on the phone with the General of the Adinolfi Finance Guard. In the intercepts published in the daily newspapers on July 10, Renzi anticipates to the general of the Arma that Letta was incapable and that, therefore, would be replaced and that he had been offered the chair of President of the Republic but, not yet fifty years old, should have waited until 2017, but that Letta himself did not trust. The Head of Government is, therefore, chosen in Italy by international banks through a political-institutional plot that had the President of the Republic as the protagonist. This is an incontrovertible fact. The changes to the present Constitution did not come from this Parliament, but from the international bank JP Morgan (in a report of 28 May 2013 he argued that Italy had to overcome the current Constitution that makes Parliament strong and weak the Government) and probably also from the Swiss Banking Union, which - as mentioned earlier - announced Renzi more than a month before his appointment. They came from the meetings that Renzi had years ago with Monti at Palazzo Chigi, as written by the Italian press. This disruption of the Constitution is the result of the commodity of armchairs. Even that of the President of the Republic was bartered between Renzi and Letta as we said before in January 2014. In the face of all this, how can informed citizens ever believe you? How can they ever believe that you are modifying our beautiful constitution in the interests of the country? How can they believe you, if they live every day in a country that drowns in corruption and crime, where politics knows nothing but to scandalize and take away their rights? How can they believe ministers who say no to citizenship income, while that is exactly what the country needs and what citizens are waiting for? How can they believe you? They can't! For they do not believe you at all. 80% of Italian citizens want to elect the Senate directly and are not interested in amending the Constitution; also because no one has asked them for an opinion and they have not been asked. These changes are pejorative in everything, they increasingly alienate citizens from being able to choose their representatives, de facto alienate them from the political life of the country and from the choices that concern them. The changes that we would have liked from the 5 Star Movement would have been those of the halving of the number of chamber and senate parliamentarians, and not just of the Senate. We would have included consultative referendums to collect the best proposals directly from the citizens, we would have put a ceiling on the salaries of parliamentarians, disproportionately disproportionate to the average salary of an Italian worker. Even if to cut your salary, you all know it by now, we have proved it amply, it is only a matter of will. No law is necessary, but just put your hand to the wallet and return the money, as do we who cut 50% of our salary and set it to microcredit for small and medium-sized enterprises. The Provinces that you have wanted, forgotten by the citizens because they are no longer directly elected, are today an unproductive and even more useless entity than before, but it keeps all the costs, and it is the best example of the Senate that you are trying to draw, and that you will obviously not be able to do. I would also like to speak on a matter which has been of interest to newspapers and television since this summer, namely the construction of the image of an internal opposition in the PD to these reforms. Of course, I don't trust any PD dissident. Let's face it, I'm sure they'll vote compactly this time, too, the orders of the dutto. At most someone will go out and smoke a cigarette or give himself sick, as done before. In this regard, I would point out that dissidents in the Democratic Party are political tactics, and serve to fuel false hopes. A fake internal resistance was the finding that the PD had to come up with to justify two governments in alliance with the right in a single legislature. Anyway, it's good for the party to talk about itself all the time. As Oscar Wilde said: "If you talk about it right or wrong, the important thing is that you talk about it." In this way the PD manages to keep in its party a thousand currents and to always be on the front page, so much in the end however the votes will always go to them. Mr President, I think that the Renzi Government is inexorably moving towards its end; it has been used by banks and supranational powers and will now be thrown away like an old rag. Renzi himself knows well that his time is coming, despite efforts to say that this reform will save the world. Someone tell him that even those before him said the same thing and that his jokes, his tweets and his slogans no longer work; it is now like a funicular without power. The only possibility left to this Government maneuvered by lobbyists to save themselves from the negative judgment of the people is to approve the income of citizenship and abandon these disastrous reforms. Otherwise they will all go straight to a wall, the wall of popular will, a wall erected by those citizens whom they call owls, professors and committees, a wall that we will also contribute to raising and making insurmountable. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this House we are not only discussing the reform of the Senate but also the rule of closing down a new institutional structure and the advent of a new political system. I say this not to evoke scenarios from the last days of Pompeii, nor to dramatize this passage as if the approval of the reform, which I hope, should be the signal able to unleash hell or paradise. I say this, much more simply - and I would say serenely if by now the "being serene" had not assumed sinister connotations - so that the scope of the passage that we are facing is clear. (at 12.11 a.m.) (Followed by Mr Quagliarello). We are at a crucial junction, of the legislature and not only. From the day the reform process is completed, nothing will be the same as before. We will have a new constitutional scaffolding but we will also have, in conjunction with it, a new electoral system. We will have a set-up and we will also be able to vote again, an option which has so far not been formally foreclosed but obstructed in substance by the random nature of a transitional system. That is why I would like to devote the time that I am allowed to today but also to tomorrow and, following Aldo Moro's admonition, to a next day the day after tomorrow. I give you the many reasons why we have supported and supported this reform and we will continue to make every effort to improve it. It is not a shot in the night but the result of a work matured throughout this legislature, from the Commission established by President Napolitano to the Letta Government, up to the often obscure but decisive work that we have assured on aspects perhaps less media but of enormous importance as those underlying the new Title V. We could, and could, even boast a birthright on the possible solution for the election of future senators. This argument, which in my opinion and I said it in time, had to be "seated." It is not in fact from the system of election of its members that derive the character and prerogatives of the Senate. On the contrary: we must decide what the Senate's role and functions are in the new architecture and deduce from this the most coherent system of election. It is clear, then, that a Senate that is the seat of representation of the territorial legislative institutions cannot but be connected to the regional councils (and I do not even believe that it can deprive itself of the Presidents of the Regions so as not to give them the opportunity to play on two tables). But, in the same way, a Senate that contributes to primary constitutional functions cannot be removed from the sovereignty of the electoral body. In this sense, the idea of selecting senators during the election of the Regional Councils was there from the beginning of the reform process, carved in our amendments not as downward mediation but as an original proposal able to reconcile the different peculiarities of the future Senate. So it could have come a long way before, saving on the path of reforms tensions and torsions that certainly did not benefit. On this and on other aspects the text can and must be improved. Not in the sense of giving the Senate an improper role of counterweight, because counterweights are to be sought elsewhere in a system logic, but by restoring functions that in the various readings have been lost in the street, guaranteeing it an effective weight in the election of constitutional judges, involving it in the connection with Europe, in the control and evaluation of public policies. Again, I proposed an amendment to sculpt in the Constitution the equal dignity between the different areas of our country, between North and South. Not only do we say yes to reforms, but until the last moment we will work to give the country the best possible reforms. The awareness of the moment we are living requires us, however, Mr President, not to stop at the reading of this text. The institutions are in fact like an organism, that lives in space and in political time and that demands balance, proportion and an intrinsic harmony between the different parts that compose it. In order to seek this balance, the Letta Government proposed a reinforced delegation to Article 138, so that the two branches of Parliament could deal in an organic design with the form of State, the form of Government, bicameralism and electoral law. I am not here to retrace the vicissitudes that blocked this attempt at the moment of its arrival in port, but it is a fact that today we are to discuss a new system that serves the fragmentation of its construction and that, precisely for this reason, requires the willingness to proceed for successive adjustments in a politically useful time. Furthermore, Madam President, the decision to postpone the entry into force of the new electoral law to next year is also a response to the need for an area for the search for a system balance. If not, why is it that choice, if not to have an area of harmonization? What does the literal law have to do with the reform on our examination? This has something to do with it, Madam President. It is because the combination between Italicum and Senate reform will introduce a new political system in our country, and with the same clarity with which we support the reforms we cannot but pose the problem of the face that Italy will have a minute later and of which political cultures will have the right to citizenship in Italy. I call things by their name and say that a system that banishes coalitions today risks banning liberal, Catholic, secular culture moderated by political representation. The new rules, grafted on the current panorama, can block the democratic game in a clash between system and anti-system in which the forces of the system remain the only alternative between the dissolution in social democracy or disappear. And it is clear that this prospect poses a problem of no small moment for those of us who have guaranteed the path of reform not because they had changed their minds about their place, but because they believed that there was a need to write new common rules without this meaning to confuse or cancel their identity. You see, ladies and gentlemen, for a long time the Italian Left has been crossed by a debate between those who advocated membership of the European Social Democratic Family and those who, instead, like Pietro Scoppola, thought that the current PD should enclose a plurality of traditions and cultures, including the Catholic democratic one. The issue has been resolved in this legislature, when a post-ideological leader has ferryed the Democratic Party into the European Socialist Party. We have witnessed with great respect this identity choice, but it must involve an awareness of the importance of cultural roots and not the claim to deprive other cultures and other political families of the right to citizenship. In short, just now that the PD has dissolved all ambiguity and embraced social democracy, it would be paradoxical that the Italian popular forces would lose by law every space of autonomy and right of representation. This is not a hyperbola: the combination of reforms and Italicum with a prize to the list would replicate, amplifying it as a result of the ballot, the phenomenon of the last Europeans, when the fear of a victory of anti-politics conveyed transversal consensus towards the social-democratic proposal assigning it the forced monopoly of common sense. We have been told that the list premium gives greater guarantees to the stability of governments. It is true, but precisely the parable of the PdL, of which we have been protagonists, shows that anti-fragmentation aggregations do not in themselves guarantee the duration of the executives in the absence of stabilisation mechanisms that refer to that now mythical agenda Perassi, still waiting for implementation. We are also told: You could have thought of that before. You also voted for Italicum. I respond to this with an objection and with a dispute. The argument is that we've thought about it. I have collected a wide anthology of parliamentary interventions, interviews, statements, which testify that the subject of the amendment of the electoral law with the prediction of the coalition prize was placed in due time and in every place. And certainly he would have been raised to the House if there had not been a confidence on purpose that I have always considered inappropriate and whose political impact today is fully understood. The objection, however, is that from Italicum onwards the world has changed and not all changes could be predicted. It has happened that in the last year the centre of gravity of the centre of gravity has moved away from the centre. And it happened that an emerging government, formed by adversaries to exhaust itself within the horizon of the reforms and then allow the restructuring of the respective half field, was proposed as a Government of coalition and legislature, with the paradox of being at the end of the legislature with the coalitions put outlaw. Under these conditions, for a force that is neither social democrat nor lepenist, there would simply be no room that is not that of an annexation. Not even the space for an alliance. A political family that has given so much to the recent history of the country would thus risk being wiped out. Mr President, we have always distinguished the plans. The blackmail we've been accused of doesn't belong to us. Reforms are not under discussion. But, a minute later, this debate on reforms will generate another one, which will invest both internal relations in a government coalition that the norm puts outlaws, and political positioning. This is a problem that will personally concern me. And I believe it will concern those who have contributed so far to the process of reform but do not intend to allow the extinction of a political culture, of their own political culture. At a time when everything seems to run out of communication, leadership and contingency, such a speech may appear out of time. But I personally dare to believe that at the bottom of political choices there are categories that come before and that are born with politics itself: culture, principles, identity. Maybe this is an old talk, but sometimes the only way to stay young is to remain faithful to yourself. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we have had ample opportunity to express our disapproval of these constitutional unconstitutional reforms in terms of substance and method. We have shown how their approval, if it happens, will bring down the democratic level of our country to the degree of regime for the very serious imbalance of force between the powers of the State in favour of the President of the Council and the Government. So I will not waste the little time kindly granted to me by the unconstitutional quota of President Grasso's time and I will go straight to the point. My question is why are you making these reforms so fast? Why are you doing this? That's how it works. The Government legislates with the decree of urgency without conditions of extraordinaryness, with decrees-laws uneven, with blows of confidence, in spite of the rules of the Constitution, in the most total silence of high institutions and with the media that are silent. In the reform of the public administration you have even voted so that the government can decide itself whether or not to adopt the implementing decrees of the laws that vote in Parliament: unlikely, incredible, yet it has passed! You have reduced the power of the people to a little light, and that is precisely the goal. In fact, this is: annihilate the power of the people. These reforms, with the combined provisions of Italicum, represent a much more efficient and authoritarian instrument than our democratic system can be degraded. Unfortunately, the balancing of powers and the power to choose their representatives are still a brake on authoritarian drift. But who is pushing this Parliament, this majority, the Government, to demolish our democracy? That's the question. Is that Napolitano's idea? Of course not. Renzi's? Of course not. Nobody believes that. They are simple performers, just like Monti was. Perhaps, however, the criticisms made by JP Morgan in an official document of 28 May 2013 have gone unnoticed to the public. I remind everyone that JP Morgan is considered by the United States to be responsible for the subprime mortgage crisis. JP Morgan states: The political systems of the European countries of the South, and in particular their Constitutions, adopted following the fall of fascism, have characteristics which are unsuitable to promote integration................................................................................................................ What integration, banking? There is a strong influence of socialist ideas. Think, the JP Morgan tells us that our Constitution is imbued with socialist ideas and mentions, among the problematic aspects, the protection guaranteed to workers' rights. Yes, of course, because the problem is still a lack of flexibility. Twenty-five years ago I started working and we were already talking about flexibility. Or there is talk of dangerous socialist ideas. You're probably talking about rights? Services to citizens, kindergartens, health care, welfare, citizenship income and stuff like that? We get JP Morgan to tell us. That is why there is an unbridled need for major reforms in this government. We start with the jobs act, inspired by the European Union and JP Morgan, precisely, and dictated by Confindustria, which passed with the silence of the unions. Here is the good school, to privatise, for more ignorant citizens, for less qualified jobs, for more poor salaries. You have to broaden your gaze, you have to look at the whole to grasp the complete picture of the plan of slavery and pillaging horde to the detriment of our country. So we begin to see the links and the coherent, coordinated and continuous political line that starts from Monti and Napolitano and arrives at Renzi. There is a problem and you know it too: it is consent. The more the social state is dismantled, the more the real economy is dismantled, the more discontent grows, people don't vote for you and you go home. In 2011 Monti, a technocrate, a nobody, a expendable politician, was used. Banks and creditors heated the engines (brum brum!): With the budget balance in the Constitution, ahead with the exodus, the Fornero law, the fiscal compact. Sacrifices, they told us, but Europe will pay us back; we are still waiting, never seen anything. Then, unfortunately, we had to vote - because it happens in democracies - and, you know, democracy makes bad surprises. This time it was the 5 Star Movement. Thus, continuing the broad perennial agreements, from Monti to Letta, up to Renzi, it is necessary to arm the country from democratic drifts and ensure its control. That is why the urgency of these reforms, which is why the economists of Moody's, if you had missed it, already proposed in April, with blackmailing, an increase in the rating on Italy as soon as they were approved. And that's why, just a few days ago, the analyst of the rating agency Moody's Marco Zaninelli said: ==References====External links==* Official website I wonder what that means. Then he explains that it has a positive effect on the Italian sovereign merit, if accompanied by the reform of the Senate. The reform is a complete package of which the reform of the Senate is also part, the effect of which is to overcome the political instability of Italy. Of course, that's the problem; then we also get one who's an analyst at Moody's. We have to think, what the hell does he want from us? What does he care about perfect bicameralism? Didn't you notice the Boccadutri law? Didn't you notice the Alfano praise (which works well)? He probably does this because he's the boss and he's dictating the shopping list to Renzi and our government. It is no coincidence that just one like Filippo Taddei, responsible for the PD economy, claims for the center-left the conquest of the euro and supports liberalist opinions pushed; things very left-wing. He also says, with great nonchalance : "Today Europe asks countries to change, making reforms that have high costs for the population." - but look at that! - The result is that whatever change is implemented is hardly shared by European citizens, - well, of course, if you impoverish them! - That they perceive it as extortion - because it's extortion! - not as a free choice that has been reached after a mature and profound debate. But what debate, but what mature one, but what deep one? You incardinated Italicum without finishing your work in the Commission and put your trust in it. You have incardinated constitutional reforms without ending the debate in the Commission. But who are you gonna drink it to? This is shameful. It is shameful beyond good and evil, Nieszche would say. "This perception" - continues Taddei - "is Europe's number one enemy." - We must move to be perceived from coercors to facilitators of change. Yeah, you got it, citizens. If the reforms deprive you of democratic power and economic sustenance, you must perceive the change for the better and also say thanks to these gentlemen, to these constrictors, pardon "facilitators." What a painful Italian! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] As painful as when you say "freezers," to please the cap. Alas, this serves the Democratic Party, members, majority, Quagliariello and all those who have intervened. The Bulgarian majority, the broad understandings: it is a government in the money of Merkel, banks, finance and our creditors. That's what they're for. Just serve, just serve the masters! Other than debating the effects of the variation of a preposition in the text - "nei" with "dai" - other than mentioning Calamandrei, widely cited. Unfortunately these quotations are out of place, because they are light years away from the bottom of the dark pit in which our country and our democracy crashed. There is only one way out: to reject these reforms and save the democracy of the country. I also say this here, as I said in the Commission, because the alternative is to commit suicide politically Maybe you have not thought about it, but the same umpteenth unconstitutional law, the electoral law, which you have designed to win might instead hand over to us the power, giving us an authoritarian apparatus equipped with all the comforts of a dictatorial regime. Do you really feel like doing this? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I conclude by saying that you are lucky, because the 5 Star Movement is a democratic movement because if it were for me, if I had certain instruments in my hand, I would make you pay, making you swallow everything you have offered to the citizens in this crappy legislature. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Albano]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u50	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u51	Madam President, we are speaking while the majority's decisive amendments, tabled a few hours ago, are still not well known. Beyond the agency anticipations and the news that can be drawn up in some way, it has not yet been possible to make a complete analysis. This allows me to say that the Group of Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura contests the method even before the merit according to which it has acted. After years and months of discussion, in fact, the third stage of this electoral reform has been reached without some fundamental issues still being resolved. I am referring, in particular, to the issues concerning the functions of the Senate and the electivity of the senators, which our Group has also placed and insists on. We have also tabled a number of amendments in this regard, albeit without any obstructionist purpose (we have seen a lot more in these hours). Among other things, ladies and gentlemen, from what we have understood, on the electivity of the senators - a question that we too have put - there is a game of Chinese boxes because in an amending way a principle would be introduced in the Constitution, but it would then be sent back to a national ordinary law, a framework law, which should be the stake - there are professors around me, who I see nod - leaving then to the Regions the possibility to codify. Some regions will then elect a number, others a smaller number, others even one. Therefore, this sacred principle of electiveity still remains wrapped in mystery through this game of subsequent referrals, but, I repeat, we act more on an oral culture of comparison with some colleague than on a true knowledge of the text of the amendment. The method is therefore unacceptable. In recent days I have also denounced the rite that has taken place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and I am sorry that President Finocchiaro - whose political experience and role I respect - has been somewhat officiating. It has happened that some currents of a party have gathered in a permanent souk with the representative of the Government, with infinite mediation, in an infinite and eternal congress of the Democratic Party. It will also be a democratic rite, but it is inflicted on the country and Parliament on a daily basis, more than a medicine to be ingested after the main meals or every tot of hours. We are all involved, spectators and victims: blessed are those who are its protagonists - I say this, of course, with sarcasm - of this permanent congress of the Democratic Party, which has also taken place in recent days. I would remind myself and the presidency of the Senate, first of all President Grasso, who has often been summoned, sometimes attacked, from whom historical decisions are expected on the emendability of Article 2: through this shameful rite we have had a privatization of the institutions. Not if I know that Senator Finocchiaro has left the Chamber for shame, because she cannot stand these statements or because she has something to do, but I am sorry that you were the official - I repeat - of a shameful ritual. In fact, political negotiations are normal and I am not shocked that there is a confrontation within the parties, but the method used has been intolerable. Today you of the Government and of the majority are making the "your" Constitution" (and I recall here a quote, which I will then say of who it is) "You have prepared it and you want to approve it, alone, thinking about your needs, your opinions and the internal relations of your majority. The Government and the majority sought agreements only within them, in the event that accompanied the formation of this profound and radical amendment of the Constitution. The quote continues: The Government and the majority - I repeat - have sought agreements within them and, each time they have modified the text and found agreement between them, they have armored this agreement. You have systematically ruled out any willingness to examine the opposition's proposals or even just to discuss them with the opposition. This is because you didn't want to risk changing the arrangements within you, your difficult internal arrangements. On 20 October 2005, in the Chamber of Deputies, Sergio Mattarella, then deputy and today President of the Republic, who evokes the deep knowledge of parliamentary custom, after so many years of sharing commitment to the House, and for the respect I have for him. I did not vote in his favour in the election of the President of the Republic, but I consider him a very worthy person and in some ways I also feel, in theory, reassured by his presence at the Quirinale, all the more after having reread his speech. So I say: Mr Mattarella, this is a shameful, disgusting, vomiting commodity, which has been bought by Members of Parliament. In this regard, I should like to make a few brief remarks. In these hours two Apulians, two of my friends, were the protagonists of the debate. The first is Tatarella, who died in 1999, of whom I consider myself a political disciple (and I am proud of it), who in 1995 invented a law, which was recalled in these hours, to solve the problem: election or designation. In 1995 there had been a backlash, Parliament was in a state of uncertainty, there was a centre-right majority, the Dini Government and a confused situation; regional elections were looming and the direct election of the Presidents of the Regions was being made. To this end, the Constitution would have to be changed, but there was no time: it was December-January and it would be voted in April. Then Tatarella said that it was necessary to make a law that guaranteed a popular nomination-election of the President of the Region, a bipolar scheme and a majority. Tatarella then dictated the principles of a law that has been applied for a long time (in some regions, although with some modifications, the plant has sometimes remained), which provided for a list on the condition that it had won to obtain a majority prize, and thus led to a bipolarism. In addition, this law provided for the coalition to indicate a candidate, such as "Mario Rossi," as president of the Region. However, as the election of the people could not take place because there was no time to change the Constitution, this designation became somewhat politically binding on the Regional Council. So much so that the citizens went to the vote and the nominated candidates were elected as presidents of the Regions, However, not being that election strengthened by the Constitution, happened the rivetons (I remember Rastrelli, president of the Campania Region, and Nisticò, president of the Calabria Region) in the course of work because of second thoughts; there was some friends of Verdini in circulation also at the time. Then the majorities changed and other presidents took over. Then the constitutional reform was carried out, today in force with the popular election of the presidents of the Region. Tatarella made a law that allowed for an increase in direct democracy, since there was no time to consolidate it with the reform of the Constitution, which was done later. It would take two steps and the rites we know. I repeat, it was January and we would have voted in April 2005, so there was no time. I believe that the government has rediscovered the possibility of an indication of these future, supposed senators, who will not be elected by the citizens; there will be some sort of designation, then the Regional Council will choose. We will see, because there will be time for this, ladies and gentlemen, because the amendment, as I said earlier, refers to a national framework law and then there will be regional laws. The "Corriere della Sera" poll according to which 80 or 73 percent of Italians want the popular election will remain awaiting a response for a long time. In Puglia there was not only Tatarella, but also Amoruso, a person I was just as close to. I would like him to remain in the proceedings of the Senate - I take responsibility for what I say - that his passage, like that of others, is not due to cultural suffering; to Amoruso of the Nazarene covenant, to which he dedicated a noble statement the day before yesterday, he never cared about it: he was interested in consulting for family members, probably. But we'll come back to that. I want the miserable behavior to remain in the Senate of the Republic. I also believe in the family, in fact I fight for it in the second Commission, but for the family composed of father and mother, the abstract one, which is the principle of society, and not for my family and for its alleged and real interests. [[Applause from Senator Marin.]] Someone else, educated to the values of the family, has thought of his own and will respond to his conscience. But here I close the parenthesis, so that, then, Senator Amoruso, who comes from a political militancy, will have reason to be ashamed of his behavior, precisely because he is not an occasional politician. [[Applause from Senator Morra]] His story...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u52	Senator Gasparri, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u53	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Let me talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator! Please. You have taken responsibility for what you say. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). In fact, I take responsibility for calling a colleague's behaviour shameful. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Just the member of the Senate and not his family. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). But he put the advice before the family, so I didn't put the family before him. But here I close the parenthesis; we will have the opportunity to discuss it again, even in his city, on October 9th. That said, the majority method was unacceptable. In recent days, colleagues of the Government, also the director of the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) Fontana, who rarely intervenes (directs the newspaper but does not abuse its signature), contested a series of passages and recalled, as Mattarella did in 2005, the need for an agreement, a confrontation. I do not want to remind President Napolitano here in order not to bump his susceptibility; when I called him the "grandfather" of this reform I did not mean to offend him: it was an almost affectionate consideration, because age, experience and even our ancient custom allowed me to use this expression. He also accompanied this path: he even went to talk to the Commission, he wrote to the Republic, to the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), he played a political role as a passionate politician as he is (and I recognize him). But he also signed, I believe, a law so that the reforms of the Constitution were all made with majorities and quorums of two thirds. Then they rethinked it, but it can be done, in many people they rethink it, it is a political rethink, as for the divisions I mentioned before: there are the political divisions and we have suffered some among exponents for political reasons, to the right or left; there are the divisions for resentment, like those of those who say "the company is mine," you do not take it and I leave it; there are the commercial divisions, but on these I have already said and given. As far as the substance of the reform is concerned, we will certainly read what is written in the amendments, we will do our part, but our direction can only be critical, because this election of the senators is very random. Federalism and relations between the regions and the state are not clear. We do not want to table 80 million amendments, but we are interested in whether the functions of this residual Senate will be or whether there will still be a confusion, because then we will have recourse to the Constitutional Court. The Senate of Autonomies, the Unified City-State-Regions Conference: I understand and consider the reasons of federalism also a necessity, even if I have not been a banner of it; but how will it work? It will be a total confusion, so much so that some of our amendments propose the abolition of the Senate. We do not say this with a demagogic intent, because the electoral programme of Forza Italia proposed that the number of parliamentarians should be halved. With this reform we will still have six hundred and thirty in the House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Just give me a moment, Madam President; I turn to your wisdom, as I exercised it by presiding. We have proposed half-lives, but in this case there remain (six hundred thirty plus one hundred) seven hundred thirty parliamentarians, which is not half-lives. Also in view of the referendum, consider whether it is not better to abolish the Senate and, if anything, to reflect on other aspects. I'm cutting other political considerations. When it comes to Tatarella, we will have to be careful because there is a direct witness in this House: I made that law. These practitioners, who quote Tatarella without knowing him, be careful, because there is still someone in circulation. I am pleased that Renzi quotes Tatarella: he quotes a good person; if he then resorted to that example he would gain from it too. But quotes and abusive interpretations will not be allowed. I conclude with a reflection, having first heard the words of Senator Quagliariello. The electoral law is not a problem of exchange. I would like a bipartite Italy, with conservatives and Labour, Republicans and Democrats: today there is not, we are going back and I regret it. The Democratic Party seemed to be throwing at 40%, perhaps today it is a little behind; in the center-right - God forbid! - We had the PdL and now one in the morning wakes up and starts a party. Let's say we have a fervent democratic life. I believe that a coalition award today would avoid problems; it is not the issue of constitutional reform, but it is connected. The electoral law - it is the last sentence and I finish, Madam President - is part of the balance of the system. The electoral law is not a piece of the Constitution, but it is a material constitution of the democracy of the country. Therefore, allowing parties that have 30% to have the Parliament, the Government, the Constitutional Court and everything else would be an alteration of democratic rules; it is that concern that Napolitano had when he proposed the quorum of two thirds to change the Constitution; it is that concern that animated the parliamentary interventions of Sergio Mattarella in 2005, when, according to him with meetings that we would have done (but we did not do the shit that has been done in recent days in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs by the PD), we were accused of private management. I believe that the comparison must be there: in the next few days it will still be possible to do so and our orientation is negative for the method and for many parts of the merit; of the other issues, such as the electoral law, the coalitions and bipolarism, we will continue to discuss, and of the goodsmoni also, unfortunately, because, if they happen, we will not observe them in silence [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u56	Mr Barani (AL-A). Madam President, I remained silent and thought that you would interrupt Senator Gasparri when you lost the throbbing and went beyond the limits of decency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's been done. Mr Barani (AL-A). Now, I do not want to comment, but I invite you to comment on the facts, because my culture is a socialist culture and I am the son of socialists like Calamandrei, Nenni and Pertini, who have written the Constitution in which there is no mandate bond for parliamentarians. Given, therefore, that there have been very precise accusations here, I invite you to report to the President of the Senate, to have the transmission recorded last night's Agora and to send everything to the Public Prosecutor's Office, because there can be no doubt, we cannot be intimidated by anyone. My culture, above all, has not been intimidated in the 20 years and we have struggled to free Italy and give it back democracy, let alone take a step backwards; indeed, we are now taking two steps forward and we are proud to have Senator Amoruso in our Group, who finally freed himself from those who have already voted in favour of this bill at first reading. [[Comments of the Senators Bottici and Fattori]] And if anything, you have an interest in not voting on it at second reading. In conclusion, Madam President, the invitation I have made to you is clear and precise: I invite you to send to the prosecutor everything we have heard, to Agora and today, so that a real inquiry is opened on who makes the sales of senators. [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u57	On this point, I will assess the presidency of the Senate, while on Senator Amoruso, who had already asked to speak, I have been informed that he will be able to do so at the end of the sitting, in order to express his opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u59	What are you gonna do about it, Senator? LUCIDES (M5S). Madam President, I too am speaking on this subject, because the statements made by Senator Gasparri seem punctual and serious. We support this request...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u60	We cannot open a debate on this; it is not the subject of the debate, I am sorry. When it comes to the substance of the debate, it may also refer to this subject, but we do not open a debate on Senator Gasparri's statements. In addition, a colleague from your Group is about to speak. Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u61	Madam President, although we agree - strangely - with President Barani, it is right that the President of the Senate should go to the bottom of this statement by Senator Gasparri. As far as reforms are concerned, we have long been addicted to the Premier's lies, so even the lie we have been waiting for reforms for seventy years is added to the list of Renzian panzane distributed a iosa on television and smug and complacent newspapers. Since 1989 thirteen constitutional revision laws have been passed, which have corrected the beauty of thirty articles of our Constitution and have repealed five articles. If the system, despite the medicine, does not heal, it means that the cure is wrong. Tell the truth, then: you do not want to cure, but give foolishly the wrong medicine, because it is the only way to preserve, preserve and prevent change. You hide the truth: you blamed the right, when the left was opposition; then, you blamed the left, when the right was on the other side of the barricade; right and left, two words that for so many years no longer make any sense. A little game that calls political alternation or democratic alternation, making it seem like a tall and noble thing, but, given the results, it can be said that it is a tricky game, a game of the parties, a play in which you switch a role in turn, as guard and thieves. Only in this case, there are never guards and when someone has to guard, they turn the other way. In sequence I will read about the passages taken from Parliamentary Reports of an era in which those who today sit among the benches of the majority opposed. Bassanini: "The proof of the "goodness" of a Constitution lies in its longevity." And again: The personalization of politics is a fact with which the institutions have to deal; it is not a value to promote until exasperation. In fact, electoral legitimacy - which you do not have today - is not enough to make a form of government democratic: history is full of elected dictators and what worries me now, Madam President, is that we can meet dictators who are not elected by the people. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] "The truth" - Bassanini said - "is that you have taken the Constitution and cut it to pieces." Our appeal is simple: stop on the edge of this abyss. Another gem is represented by the intervention of the current President of the Democratic Party in the Senate, Senator Zanda, in the version Zanda 1.0 which stated: There are very few Senators of the majority who in private do not understand or even openly confess their deep discomfort in order to be called to vote, by political discipline, a reform that they do not share. Now, beyond the natural differences between the political groups, I would like to ask Senator Zanda what these differences are - it would have been necessary for the majority to have sought first of all in the work of revising the Constitution the unity of Parliament on some shared values and on the fundamental rules of public life. I believe that nothing more harms the future of the country than the breaking of the principles on which our democratic coexistence rests. And again Tonini, today a hard defender of Renzi and this institutional scribble that you insist on calling reform. He said: On the rules you want to decide with majority shots, while foreshadowing a normal association for the political-parliamentary confrontation and for the activity of the same Government. No, Mr President, if this is the outcome of a process which, even if it had started from the right premise, we can only vote against this reform. I know what this is, Mr President: it is transformation. I now come to another historic intervention, although unfortunately, the guillotine times that allowed some senators to make their contribution for twenty minutes and cut off the speeches of us citizens just ten minutes do not allow me to read completely. It looks like a trigger, instead it is the twice president of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano, today senator for life, also in version 1.0 of then: What I also find unacceptable is, however, the desire to broaden the powers of the Prime Minister in an abnormal way. And again: What I also consider unacceptable is a solution without any rationality of the Senate problem, with unpredictable consequences on the linearity and effectiveness of the legislative procedure; an alteration of the unitary appearance of the Constitutional Court. I shall conclude, Madam President, with some passages made by another character: the current Vice-President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, my Corregional and then Parliamentary Legnini. He stated: This reform is extremely damaging to our country, because it affects at heart that state order, that organization and balance of central, regional and local powers that have allowed us to be proud of the fundamental Charter of our State. And it went on like this: You will not be able to be proud of this bad reform, because it does not foreshadow, as you are tiredly claiming, a better state. No! You are doing commodity, the opposite of that happy synthesis of different cultures that was determined in the constituent assembly, a commodity of opposing principles and choices between them... that will nullify that power of guarantee and balance of the Head of State, which will weaken that independence and authority of the highest judicial body, that Constitutional Court whose high function had never dared to weaken or weaken. I shall conclude, Madam President, and colleagues. As I said, I have read words of fury in defense of the Constitution that, during the examination of the Constitutional Bill "Modifications of Part II of 2005, proposed by the Berlusconi Government and then rejected by the referendum, pronounced people like Bassanini, Zanda, Tonini, the President emeritus of the Republic and the current vice president of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. It can be said that it was other times and other air, yet only ten years have passed and the articles of the Constitution to be amended were fifty-five. The deformation - not the reform - proposed by the government will unfortunately pass, because the imperative regarding the construction of the nation's one party is stronger than the same sense of preservation of the place that also animates many of the outgoing senators. Thus a real monstrum will be born from the point of view of institutional architecture and the Republican Constitution itself will be overthrown. But that doesn't matter, as it only counts to go forward by providing the people with the idea of "newism" triumphant, without any regard for reality. With the referendum we will change your mind because, ladies and gentlemen, always remember that power belongs to the people and not to your shameful parties. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u62	He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u63	Madam President, I understand and share the content of some of the speeches that have been made in this House. What I always want to remember, even in the speeches I shared, is that the attack on the Constitution and, therefore, on democracy comes from afar and I am surprised that someone pretends not to have it yet. This attack has been coming from far away and has been going on for years now. I always want to remember that when you attach the right to health, to work or to study it is clear that you touch our Constitution and the foundation of what our Fathers have left us. We should all have been very angry when they canceled the Workers' Statute. In fact, I would like to address Senator Bottici, who said that the Workers' Statute has been changed: the Workers' Statute has been virtually cancelled, as usual, by majority voting and in the meanest way, i.e. as reforms. The other day I followed a well-known broadcast on Rai3 about working conditions. I remind everyone that Article 1 of our Constitution reads: Italy is a democratic Republic, founded on labour. On this point Renzi was very clear and said he believed that, when there is little work, at the limit it is a duty of the worker and no longer a right. In these words there is everything. I would have expected that in so many speeches, especially in those I shared, there would be a passage on what is happening in the world of work and especially on the news, which appeared in the media a few days ago, of the 10% increase in deaths at work. Too bad no one remembers this news. There is an informative marketing by this Government, which is used to giving certain data, never talking about real and concrete ones. I'm really having a hard time understanding these things. The last, always constitutional, attack on the world of work (after I will talk about other issues) took place the other day in Commissions 1a and 11a, where it emerged that the last obstacle is the strike and on this there will be a last attack on the workers (so to our beloved citizens) who must suffer everything and not even rebel. The explanation given by this famous majority, if you can call it that, is that you do not cancel the right to strike, so much so that the virtual strike remains. I find it very difficult to hold back, because for my culture I am not used to offending, but it is clear that these offenses on the part of the majority cannot continue. After the virtual strike what will remain? The virtual salary? We speak, as always I love to say, of things that are neither in heaven nor on earth. With regard to remote controls and demand, I have done a little research. I am not a constitutionalist, because I come from the world of work, and I took the liberty of reading Article 13 of our Constitution, which reads as follows: "Personal freedom is inviolable. No form of detention, inspection or personal search, or any other restriction of personal freedom, shall be permitted. According to our Constitution, all physical and moral violence on people under freedom restrictions is punished. I read the article as I am able to do, which is very clear to me. Doesn't the Constitution turn around? But since we are talking about workers, about B-series citizens, according to this majority, this must go under the absolute silence. Then I took the liberty of reading other articles of our Constitution as well. The work must be dignified and, until a few years ago, even in the interventions of the end of the year we were talking about the struggle to minimize the deaths at work. Everyone was committed to words, but these speeches have of course remained written words, because this majority of work no longer speaks. Even Article 41, which I remember also the previous Government wanted to cancel, says that "private economic initiative is free" but that "it cannot take place in conflict with social utility or in such a way as to harm security, freedom, human dignity". This too, however, must pass under silence. I have seen the attack on the workers of the Colosseum, and I say it is unworthy of democracy. Since I have been a trade unionist for a while, I would like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that, in order to request an assembly, the majority of workers and their representatives must request it at least 48 hours in advance. In that case, I understand the request came earlier. And this request was made because the workers did not receive back money for overtime. Now, I don't know if the workers in order to hold an assembly have to do it at 4:00 in the morning, so as not to disturb. Maybe in the middle of the night, why don't they bother? I find the attacks that have been made unsatisfying, to say the least. Also with regard to the sentences spoken by those who want to represent this Government and have respect for this democracy and this country, I think they should be very careful to say certain words. Our President-in-Office seems to have said he wants to save our country's culture from those trade unionists. This is wrong and inappropriate, but not only. I'll take a little ride to show you where I'm going with my reasoning. I believe that everyone also has the freedom to change their opinions. Lies, on the other hand, are neither in heaven nor on earth. The other day we saw a farce, and I am sorry that Senator Vacciano is not here. I do not go into the matter, but Senator Vacciano (with whom I have also spoken personally) decided not to be a member of this House anymore. And I have heard interventions of various kinds, in which it was said that one could not afford to let go of a serious person, who had brought a novelty. I do not doubt that Senator Vacciano is a very serious person, but he had decided otherwise. For the reason that I said, however, many did not accept the resignation. I don't discuss it, but I would have decided otherwise, because I respect Senator Vacciano's opinion. But if these principles are valid, why are they valid only for this House? There are so many good trade unionists and so many normal workers who are putting in place a real resistance in the world of work to an unprecedented frontal attack in our Republic. Yet they are also fired for crime of opinion. How come these two things aren't compatible? If we really want to regain the trust of those who listen to us and of those we should represent, we should seriously ask ourselves why culture should not be saved here by the trade unionists, here perhaps the areas of democracy, which are increasingly being restricted, by this majority and by this Government, must be saved - let me say this -. [[Applause from the Mixed SEL and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u64	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u65	Madam President, fellow senators, on 26 January 1955, one of the most famous constituent Fathers of the Italian Republic intervened, at the invitation of the University students of Milan, at a conference on the Constitution. On that occasion, Calamandrei gave one of the most significant and exemplifying speeches on the meaning of the Constitution that we can bring back: in the Constitution there is all our past, all our misfortunes and all our glories. To understand these articles, we hear distant voices, the greats of our history but also unknown people. "Behind every article in this Constitution, young people, you must see young people like you, fallen fighting, shot, hanged, tortured, starving in concentration camps, dead in Russia, Africa, dead in the streets of Milan, on the streets of Florence, who gave their lives so that freedom and justice could be written on this Charter. So when I told you that this is a dead card, no, it's not a dead card, but it's the will of a hundred thousand dead. If you want to go on a pilgrimage to the places where the Constitution was born, go to the mountains where the partisans fell, to the prisons where they were imprisoned, to the fields where they were hanged. Everywhere an Italian died to redeem freedom and dignity, go there, or young people, with thought, because there our Constitution was born. Calamandrei did not see the Constitution as something static but as a political program. The Constitution itself contains an agreed political programme, which has become law, which is an obligation to implement. We of the 5 Star Movement are also for changes to the Constitution, but not those you propose. Today it is not a clash between innovators and conservatives, as some smoke salesmen would like to make believe. In this sense the changes proposed by the government bring us back from 1948, lead us to the dark years of fascism and authoritarianism and probably even further back. The constituents did not by chance impose a long and complex process, to change the Constitutional Charter. Concerns were aimed at preventing the Republic from reliving the dark years of fascism. If we look at these changes in the method - authoritarian and contemptuous of the balance between the constitutional powers - and in substance - to adapt the charter to the interests of the lobbyists compared to those of the broad popular groups that demand social justice - to military intervention with respect to the shared desire for peace of the Italian people, to the prevarication of the caste, which wants to create a safe conduct for the local "corruttelli" of Regions and Municipalities, with respect to the democratic will that wants the choice of candidates in the hands of the narrow groups of power that manage the parties, we can affirm with certainty that this is not the way and that we are facing an assault on the white weapon against the democratic pillar of this country. It is regrettable, Mr President, that those who are imposing these changes today are willing to do anything and certainly not for the sake of Italy. Behind some young faces, which gets agitated on television, there's a project that's decades old, a project that's as old as hate, the P2 project. That is why, Mr President, we believe that these constitutional reforms are as young as the restoration of the Vienna Congress in 1814. The attempt is now clear, that is to hold on to this old centralist political caste and intimately corrupted to power in every possible way, even denying our democratic culture, the institutions and the Italian people themselves. It was not enough for the shameful raid of the parties, during the Monti Government, to adjust with the balance of the budget a Constitutional Charter that aimed at much more, to bend the institutions to the interests of the banks. What we want to carry out today sounds like a sort of Head of Democracy. Today, however, Madam President, there is the 5 Star Movement, a natural antibody to the conspiracy of the caste. We will not allow lobbyist extremists to make rag paper of the sacrifices of millions of Italians. The Constitution is still to be applied almost entirely, other than the old Constitutional Charter! Outside this House millions of Italians are calling for the right to work, the right to health and many other rights to be guaranteed. In these days, Madam President, many citizens are suffering and waiting for a response from politics, but as in the past governments, no one seems willing to give answers. We waste time cultivating power, the useless power of having twenty-four spare cars, the useless power to change the Constitution, the electoral law, in a single blow, trying to stop the inevitable change in every democratic society. Why, instead of tackling the thorny problems of our state, the countless waste, the foundations, the useless bodies that drain thousands of millions of euros into social services, is it time to change a Charter that still needs to be applied in substance today? What is this way of governing, we wonder? As a citizen, I am outraged at this choice. What happens today does not compare with the history of this country. If it was the Calamandrei, the Togliatti, the De Gasperi who wrote the Constitution, it will be poison and quaquaraqua, people who have no idea what they're doing. Someone could shout at the exaggeration, after all only the Constitution is being changed, not a coup d'état is taking place! However, this is not the only process in place. Calamandrei, in 1950, made a speech in support of the public school, the same one that today is accidentally destroyed by this government with the usual excuse to restart the country. In particular, in a famous passage from that speech, Calamandrei argued that those who want to take possession of all power, not wanting to march on Rome or transform Parliament into a manipulist housing, begin to neglect public schools, to discredit them, to impoverish them. Let them get animated and start favoring private schools. But not all private schools. The schools of your party, that party. And then all the treatments begin to go to these schools. Care for money and privileges. We even begin to advise children to go to these schools, because they are ultimately better, they say, than the state schools. And maybe they give themselves prizes, as I'm going to tell you now, or they propose to give prizes to those citizens who will be willing to send their children instead of to public schools to those private schools: exams are easier, you study less and you succeed better. So private school becomes a privileged school. The ruling party, unable to openly transform state schools into party schools, sends state schools to waste to give priority to its private schools. So, Madam President, on the one hand, parliamentary rules are being distorted, guillotines are being imposed, tight times and trustworthy; on the other hand, electoral law, the Constitution and schools are being changed, workers' rights are being attacked and the outsourcing of large companies is being encouraged, leaving SMEs to die of taxes. This is an overall project, Madam President, this is an attack on the rule of law and democracy. Call it whatever you want, PD colleagues. Just read your speeches of 2005, when the constitutional reforms wanted Berlusconi, just read the speeches of Zanda, Napolitano, Brutti and many others to understand how this Party has been changed from above, to serve the interests of the high spheres and sell this country. You have nothing new, you are as old as the carriages drawn by horses, as the burning fire with stones, as the oil-lighted lights. You are the cooks of low cuisine, to mention again Calamandrei, to which you must be careful, because behind an inviting menu, hide bad food. For this country you are like ISIS, a handful in the money of a madman who has no respect for what he has found and wants to change everything to serve foreign interests. One day each of you will have to deal with what you are doing and the accounts of conscience, Madam President, are always very salty. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u66	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the constituent mother of Boschi (also absent today), in recent years in our country we have constantly heard about reforms. Called upon by all governments and considered as necessary for the economic restart of the country, with the Renzi Government reforms have however become the instrument of reducing the rights of workers, as already happened in the jobs act, in the good school, or the limitation of democracy, as happened with the unblocking Italy and in this case sacrificing the representation in the name of governance. This reform aims to eliminate the perfect bicameralism, wisely conceived by our constituent fathers immediately after the Nazi-fascist tragedy, considering it as a scapegoat for the slowness with which the institutions respond to the needs of the citizens. The Houses are slow to legislate, it has repeatedly repeated itself in recent years, yet in the last parliamentary term Parliament has ratified the European Treaty on Fiscal Compact and the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), two treaties that have caused incalculable damage to Italians, in a little less than a week under vacation, demonstrating that it is not institutional technicalism that blocks or slows down Parliament's work, but political will, systematically fugitive when it comes to approving draft laws that are useful and necessary to restore dignity to citizens, such as the income of citizenship. You have subtly presented this "prostitutional" reform, which we will not vote for, as a reduction in the costs of politics, but if you really wanted to save by amending the Constitution, it would have been more appropriate to reduce the number of Members, as has been said in this House several times. I take as an example the House's Culture Commission (although the speech can be extended to all other Commissions), currently composed of forty-five MPs, of which twenty-two of the Democratic Party. I wonder and ask you whether you think those 22 Members have played their part in this Parliament with equal commitment and dedication to the point where they each deserve 15,736 euros net in envelope? But above all, are twenty-two Members of the same Parliamentary Group needed to play the legislative role within a Commission? What, then, is the reduction in the costs of the policy desired by Mr. "My Lords" Renzi? Let us understand at least the constituent mother Boschi, since in article 9 of his precious bill (sold by her on the International Day of the Rights of the Child of 2014 as essential to reduce child poverty) it is shamefully stated that the new senators will be able to enjoy some emoluments for the office of territorial representation, compensations that will be determined by an equal state law after the approval of this reform and will have as maximum limit the salary of the mayor of the capital of Region. Answer us, dear Mr. Renzi, for once trying to undo any damage. But we know that you cannot do so, because the truth is one. This institutional facility linked to Italicum constitutes a combined arrangement that I had already denounced at first reading as dangerous, because it would allow the majority of the Government to elect the President of the Republic and five judges of the Constitutional Court, i.e. the bodies of guarantee and control over the work of the Government itself. This danger, gentlemen, remains intact, even though you are spreading your historic goal in these hours. Well, the big turning point, with the three mediation and incision amendments between former Berlusconians and the Democratic Party minority. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] You're shameful! Don't keep making fun of the country, please. The question of direct or indirect election of future members of the new Senate has been widely used medialy to conceal the truth about the legislative functions of the new Senate. All our speeches, in the empty Chamber these days, have largely revealed the falseness of the reasons that would justify your attack on the Constitution, improperly called "reform," while the real objectives remain unchanged: the significant reduction of the spaces of political participation of the citizens, the decrease of the control activities and the cancellation of the role of guarantee of the Senate as a branch of Parliament entitled to make additions, modifications and corrections of the legislative process developed by the Chamber of Deputies, which will instead be subject to the will of the Government and the Prime Minister. Article 10 of this text, which amends Article 70 of the Constitution, is symptomatic of what is happening: "Every bill approved by the Chamber of Deputies" reads Article 10 "is immediately transmitted to the Senate of the Republic which, within ten days, at the request of a third of its members, may arrange to examine it. In the following thirty days, the Senate of the Republic may decide on proposals for amendment of the text, on which the Chamber of Deputies shall give its final ruling. The role of the new Senate, ladies and gentlemen, will be limited to the simple proposal, without really being able to exercise the legislative function and have an effective effect on the formation of laws, if not for those of constitutional revision (live God!), for those who determine the fundamental functions of Municipalities and Metropolitan Cities and, finally, for those who determine how Italy participates in the training and implementation of European legislation. You understand, ladies and gentlemen, how many subjects will be excluded. I ask myself and ask you: what does it mean that the Senate, at the request of a third of its members, can arrange to examine the bill? Is the request of one third of the members sufficient, which is impossible to achieve if only the senators of the smallest regions were included in the calculation? Or does that "disposing" conceal the need for a subsequent resolution by an absolute majority of the Senate (all else easy to obtain, given the proportional allocation of seats), so that the bill can only be discussed? You have supported for more than a year the election of second level senators, a shameful position, which would open up an unworthy cow market, such as the one already widely experienced with the Provinces, and which will ensure immunity to those institutional representatives protagonists, in this complicated historical moment, of the most serious corruptele, regional councillors and mayors. On this we are waiting to read the official documents, to understand how the election of future senators by regional councillors would be planned on the basis of the choices made by voters at the time of the vote, which is not yet entirely clear. What reform are we talking about then, constituent mother Boschi? Well, maybe it would be better to call her for what she really is: another grip for the bottoms, yet another one, hopefully one of the last, behind the Italians. Just yesterday I happened to read an aphorism of the Jesuit writer Baltasar Gracián and I immediately thought about how suitable it was for you: "There are men who are so skilled as to turn what returns to their behalf into the advantage of others; and so it seems that they grant others a grace when they receive it instead. This is your government, only apparently seems to work for citizens, as for school recruitment, this year 38,000 against 30,300 of the year 2012 and without deportations. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator. BLUNDO (M5S). I'm done, ma'am. No more lies! Everything you do is to preserve your power, to the full benefit of the banking powers that support you. If even in this passage you win a battle, you will not win the war of the confirmation referendum. Citizenship no longer has a blind eye and will be able to take back its role guaranteed by the Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u68	He's enlisted to speak Senator Galimberti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u69	Madam President, Madam Representative of the Government, fellow Senators, we are called upon to analyse the constitutional reform measure. But what is a reform? The Treccani vocabulary defines it as a process of modification of something directed to its improvement. Well, this definition is opposed to this bill, which was born with the ambitious aim of adapting our Constitution, not only to the needs of today's society, but, above all, to ensure, to our young people and future generations, an efficient state based on solid democratic foundations. Alas, the result is a constitutional reproach. To determine this decline was the obtuse and obstinate will of the Government to continue in a solitary race, without confrontation, nor sharing, humiliating the Senate in a general sense and, in particular, its Commission, first replacing the representatives of majority "not aligned" to the thought of course, then interrupting the legislative process and, finally, deciding the changes to make to the text exclusively within the direction of the Democratic Party, rather than looking in this House - the natural place where it was to be done - for a wider sharing. At the beginning of this reform path, we at Forza Italia chose to offer full collaboration to the majority, respecting the constituent spirit, having as its sole objective the good of the country, convinced that the change of rules should take place exclusively through the participation of all responsible forces. This was the case and, just a year ago, the Senate fired an acceptable text, which I decided to vote even though it did not coincide with my ideal of constitutional installation, but, however, it was worthy of support. The transition to the House, on the other hand, has upset the nature of the reform, making it unacceptable and, I would say, even dangerous for at least two reasons: the functions and the composition of the new Senate. The amendments to Articles 1 and 10, in particular, have drastically reduced the powers initially conferred on the Senate, giving it in fact a role so secondary that it makes it totally useless, we have to tell us. Then I wonder why we have to keep an empty box out of function. It is absolutely better to abolish it and move directly to a single-cameral system, to which in fact this reform wants to bring us. In addition, a Chamber composed of senators no longer elected by the people, but appointed by the territorial institutions, makes this House a mere after-work, a cemetery of elephants, certainly necessary to the majority chair to park its professional politicians at the end of their career. It is incomprehensible that the judgment of the sovereign people, expressed through direct elections, replaces the superpower of the Secretary of the Democratic Party. I am convinced that precisely that sovereign people, when they are called to speak on the necessary confirmation referendum, will firmly punish this reform. Moreover, the changes to the functions and compositions of the new Senate, in conjunction with the new electoral law, Italicum, will determine the failure of that check and balance between the different powers of the State that represents the hinge, the heart and the democratic soul on which our Constitution is founded. The new rules, in fact, allow those who win the elections to obtain three hundred and forty Members of the House, useful to exercise an uncontested power that gives into the hands - let me say it explicitly - of the secretary of the majority party, whoever it is, all the highest positions of the State: the President of the Republic, the President of the Chamber, the President of the Council, the Government, the Authorities, the control of the Higher Council of the judiciary and, directly or indirectly, the majority of the Constitutional Court (ten out of fifteen). Therefore, with full conviction, I can neither share nor vote for a new Constitution which, rather than broadening democratic guarantees, represents an authoritarian drift of the State in which there will be no effective control and limitation to the overpower of a single political component. I would like to close with a textual quote: The way in which this Government and this majority proceed (...) was the opposite of what was followed in this Chamber, in the constituent Assembly, by the Government, by the majority and by the opposition of that time (...). You have moved forward, with this foolish reform, contrary to the example of the Constituent, only so as not to bring down the Government (...). Once again, on this occasion, emerges the conception that belongs to this Government and this majority, according to which the winner of the elections owns the institutions, is its owner. This is a mistake. It is a profoundly wrong conception. The institutions are of everyone, of those who are in government and of those who are in opposition. The serious thing is that, this time, the victim of your conception is our Constitution. These words - let me say so today - were spoken ten years ago by the then Mr Mattarella, the same one that now as President of the Republic is allowing and supporting such a defiance to the Constitution and democracy, which at the time defended so strenuously and which today does not defend, despite being, by Constitution, its defender. I address you, President Mattarella, to treasure your thoughts ten years ago and to prevent Italy from turning into something so dangerous that I do not even want to mention. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Sacconi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u70	Madam President, Madam Representative of the Government, I will make a few comments to justify once again the agreement of the People's Area Group to this constitutional reform, which is no secondary reason for the life of this legislature, to which we have contributed significantly. First of all, I would like to point out that overcoming the perfect bicameralism is at last the breakup of that constitutional compromise imposed by the Communist Party, which has for a long time given rise to a slow and often blocked democracy. People like Pacciardi, first, Craxi, then, and Berlusconi himself were accused of authoritarianism for having hypothesized a ruling democracy that today, albeit on the basis of inevitable compromises, can reasonably be achieved. But I want to focus even more on that part of the constitutional reform that concerns Title V of Part II and therefore the righting of the crooked tree of Italian federalism. We have supported you with specific amendments, with the intention, first of all, of rebuilding the unitary state, convinced as we are that a nation - and we are a nation - must correspond to a state. On the contrary, the nation came before the state and forged itself on the common principles of Christian tradition; then, laboriously, on it a weak unitary state was realized, which we have further weakened over the last decades through a disordered and irresponsible federalism. We have helped to shift competences - as already proposed in the Berlusconi reform - from the regions to the state (I am referring to energy, strategic infrastructure, large networks, but also to work and the environment); I hope that no amendment will be amended. In the same way, we shared the possibility of creating a federalism with variable geometry, indicating the functions - and we are available to a possible strengthening of them - that could be required by virtuous regions, in the condition, that is, to be able to carry them out properly. But above all we have worked for the clause of state supremacy referred to in Article 31 of the draft law, that which determines the new article 117, fourth paragraph, of the Constitution, through which the State, beyond the distribution of competences, can intervene on everything, when it warns that the protection of the legal or economic unity of the Republic is in question, or the protection of the national interest: first the State. As a result, we have tabled amendments which, albeit with reformulation, have been accepted and which have concerned the assumption in the constitutional dictation of the so-called standard costs and requirements, referred to in the law for fiscal federalism, which have been codified in article 33 of the reform, including them in article 119, fourth paragraph, of the Constitution; standard costs and requirements that are the instruments of limited sovereignty, limited autonomy of the Regions and the Municipalities; limited and responsible, because responsible. With our amendment to the original Article 33 (now Article 34), accepted with reformulation by the Government and then voted by this very House, we wanted to introduce the Commissariat not only of the Municipalities, but also of the Regions. Who, like me, has had the albeit brief experience of Minister of Health and has considered it necessary to commissioner a large part of the Regions of the Centre-South, given their serious condition of financial failure, regarding the fundamental voice of the regional health service, can testify to the difficulty of restoring to balance those conditions of failure according to an obligatory negotiation with the Presidents of the Regions; and so, the commissioners of the regional health have necessarily been identified in the Presidents of the Region, discussing with them arduously one or more subcommissisari concretely dedicated to the plans of return, in relation to the limits of the present constitutional structure (standard costs and needs, commissioners, instruments of a responsible autonomy, instruments of that spending review that in the next period we will have to realize not only for the State, but also for those two thirds of the current expenditure that are represented by the Municipalities and the Regions). Today, the Ministry of Economy, through the Sose, the company in charge of the surveys functional to the costs and the requirements standard, can even produce the algorithm according to which to generate a timely commissioning of the municipal functions, that is, when it produces the imbalance that the standard requirements allow to detect; that structural imbalance that today instead deepens until a condition of failure that, when detected, makes the situation really difficult reversible, as testimonies great Municipalities and great municipalities like Naples or Rome. We adhere therefore with conviction to this reform, not only for the part that has been mainly the subject of public confrontation, but also in some ways especially for the part that reconstructs the unity of the Nation, through the prevalence of the national interest and the return to responsibility of the Municipalities and Regions [[Applause from Senator Torrisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u73	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, I have heard that this House will continue despite the fact that the Commission is working. For example, I should now go to the RAI bicameral supervisory committee, because the hearing of RAI 3 director Vianello - who, among other things, was requested by the PD - was to be held yesterday and is coming back for our replies. Then there is a colleague who should speak shortly, Senator Ciampolillo, who must be at the same time here and in the RAI Supervisory Committee. I therefore believe that the Presidency should take note that either we suspend the sitting or we suspend the Commissions, also since this is not just any debate, but the debate on constitutional reform: either we stop the House for an hour or an hour and a half, as long as it takes, or we suspend the Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u74	The Commissions are subordinate to the House, so they have been warned that the House continues to work. We're gonna turn them upside down, but we're not voting anyway, so there's no absolute ban. AIROLA (M5S). No, Madam President, I'm sorry! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Airola, I'm giving you an answer because you asked me. AIROLA (M5S). But this is not an acceptable answer: this is the debate on constitutional reforms! PRESIDENT. - The debate is For constitutional reforms the timetable was voted so that there were no suspensions. AIROLA (M5S). But then you'll deface the Commissions! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We've defaced them. AIROLA (M5S). All of them! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Your Group will ensure that this ban operates in the Commissions. As far as the bicamerals are concerned, the Presidents are informed that the Senate Assembly is primarily engaged in the debate on constitutional reforms and the Conference of Leaders decided that the session should proceed without suspension.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u75	Then suspend the work of the Commissions, because this is unacceptable; it is an attack on democracy! It is the right of all Members - including yours - to follow the debate and intervene in the Commission. This is unacceptable! His answers are unacceptable; take a stand! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I told her I took a stand. I don't have the word... No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, calm down. AIROLA (M5S). So you can assure me that you will either interrupt the work of this House or those of the Commissions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Commissions have been defiled. She is registered to speak Senator Maturani. You have the right to do so. AIROLA (M5S). If I didn't say so, it was going on, huh? Is that how it works? So you're running this pantomime? With this lightness? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Have respect for the Senate and the Presidency. AIROLA (M5S). She's the one who has no respect! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You need to calm down. AIROLA (M5S). No, I won't calm down! This is yet another shame; it is yet another insult to this House! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Commissions have been disconcerted and the offices have been warned that the work of this House is continuing. AIROLA (M5S). It is yet another insult to the dignity of myself and my colleagues. Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Give Senator Maturani a chance to do her own surgery. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the text that we are going to fire for the second time in this House, after the vote of the House - it must be pointed out in advance - represents the passage of an era; an era in which politics has never known or wanted to remove the installation and configuration of a State which, after seventy years and several years, has been declared difficult, needs to be re-modernised, and that is not a small point. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the face of this crucial step, we are called - let me say this - to try every effort to do what is useful to compose divergent positions. I think we need, from this point of view, to give a clear signal to the country. We want to adapt, with a few decades of delay, the constitutional and functioning structure of our country to that of the great European democracies. We must all try to help and we all understand how much this reform, together with the others that we have approved - I think of the school, the reform of the public administration, the jobs act - is an important step for our country. The strong commitment of this Government and this Parliament has enabled us to regain, not only in Europe, authority and credibility. An important step, therefore, for our country; a step that we want to take in the right times, also to dedicate ourselves to the many other problems that many in this House, in these days and in this debate, have remorseded. I am not saying that we must make such a fundamental reform so quickly; I am hoping that all the possible solutions necessary to counter the broadest support for this reform and its structural structure will be pursued, and that the right, necessary parliamentary confrontation, aimed at bringing out the opportunity of some changes that work in favour of a more effective and coherent reform, is an element that contributes to maintaining the harmony of the times, rightly broad, provided for by the parliamentary passages. This is a very important stage in the parliamentary debate, in which the House is working to improve the text, without changing its structure, and that is why I feel that I should appeal to all of us for this passage to have lived as a useful moment to enrich and refine those elements of strengthening the prerogatives and competences of the Senate relating to important functions of control and guarantee. Colleagues and colleagues, many things have been said and written about the reforms we have dealt with in this part-session, but in my opinion the point of merit is one above all. I do not think so much about overcoming the perfect bicameralism, which in all these years has ended with the transformation from a balance factor to a brake factor in the decision-making processes: no, the highest point of this reform is politics, which after too many years of impoverishment and inability to renew itself and get out of rituals now worn out, finds the courage to find itself again and to bet on change, acted and not immediately, and on the ability to draw a constitutional framework that has the breath to hold on in the years to come. Colleagues and colleagues, nothing has been worse for our country than the swamp in which it has spent the last thirty years. Now is the time to be able to meet these challenges and to be able to transform us to transform our country into a country finally able to reinvent itself to face a different time. I do not believe and see any authoritarian twist in all this, as - if anything - the whisper of dignity of a Parliament that just over two years ago was found to ask the President emeritus of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano - the only case in republican history - the sacrifice to remain for inability to choose. President Napolitano has remained, nailing all of us to a series of responsibilities. Well, today, from this House, Parliament responds. Let us begin from here, ladies and gentlemen, to re-use the language of politics, the true and authentic language that is proposed with responsibility as an engine capable of driving change. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u77	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this space in this desolate and empty Chamber. I wondered whether to intervene or not: in the end I decided to do so because this is one of those moments when you have to give your contribution to those who sent you here, by chance or by necessity, with the wrong electoral law and with a Parliament of nominations. However, we are now here to represent nine million Italians, whom someone wanted to call nine million people. Today I owe my speech to these people and I hope that they will listen to him because, here, those who proposed this reform do not seem interested. What is today's session? It is a simulacrum, a shame and a false debate. The sitting was opened to allow us to speak but, as was the case with all the reforms, there was no debate. It is good that citizens know this: there is no debate on constitutional reform and there is no debate, just as there was no debate on labour reform and school reform. They are all reforms that have fallen authoritarianly from the top, giving the parliamentarians a simulacrum and a false space of debate that - just look around - does not exist. Let us then see what this reform is all about. You are treating it as a reform of bicameralism, but in reality it is not (or at least it is not just that). The combined arrangement of Italicum and constitutional reform is nothing more than the transformation of our State into a presidential or semi-presidency Republic, in which in fact Mr Renzi already calls himself Premier despite the premierate should not exist in a parliamentary Republic. All this is done in the name of governance, so as to put aside a political force that now represents 25% of Italians - I mean the 5 Star Movement - and to stop arguing, at least apparently, of the political forces that actually share the same objective, that is to reduce the spaces of democracy. But let's think this through. If we give so much power to a political force, to one man, who will rule? Let us remember that this same state has elevated the Mafia in the State-Mafia negotiation to the rank of institutionality, or at least as a contracting party to a pact. Then we ask ourselves: who will rule tomorrow, considering that these handsome gentlemen have considered the Mafia as an institutional interlocutor? Did you have a problem with that? Because when power is concentrated in one hand, these hands are not said to be clean. As has not been the case over the years, the hands of many Members of Parliament. This is a point on which I would like at least the citizens to meditate. They tell us that we must save money and that the Senate is abolished in order to reduce the costs of politics. This, too, is absolutely not the case with those who listen to us; it would be enough to reduce the number of Members by half and suddenly cut costs by half. In fact, the costs will increase because you want to put regional advisers in here, appointed in one way or another, with parliamentary immunity. Let us remind the President and the kind Government that the regional councillors to date are the ones who accumulate the greatest amount of convictions and have a propensity to criminalise quite important. Instead of saving money, bringing them in here will also steal the carpet: it will have to be replaced often and therefore there will be no savings. To describe the quality of the regional councillors, in Lazio we had "er Batman" and "er cannibale dei Castelli." I wonder how these characters, investigated and condemned to various degrees, will be able to participate in that ascending phase of European legislation which now constitutes 70% of the laws. So you give the ascending phase and the whole construction of European legislation to four regional councillors who barely know how to speak Italian. I would invite you to also meditate on the quality of the people who will enter here. Who wanted this reform? That, too, I wondered. In fact, this is a project that goes through decades. They're right to say we've been trying for 70 years. But who's trying to do what? That's what we have to ask ourselves. The abolition of perfect bicameralism? No way. This is simply a project that starts from the suitcase of Licio Gelli's daughter, and it was called the P2 Democratic Rebirth Plan. This has gone through decades, ending up in Berlusconi's projects, which you have fought so hard. But where are the left-wing intellectuals, actors and singers who said that this is the most beautiful Constitution in the world and should not be touched? What happened to them? Where did they go? This project is now in the hands of a party called PD, which has absolutely nothing to do with the people and democracy. Then we want to reduce democratic spaces. Why are you trying to take the power away from the people? Why do you want to reduce democratic space? You did it with the jobs act, you did it with the school reform, where the power is in the hands of the principal, with the Unlock Italy where environmental standards and also the construction of incinerators eventually come to the head of the President of the Council. As D.A. Scarpinato explains very well, when he describes this new mafia producing services, this is no longer the mafia that was looking for the politician to be awarded the contract. Now the mafia's gonna plant itself in here, and the contracts are gonna create them. Attorney Scarpinato said that corruption is now an economic problem and no longer a legal problem, because with the balance of the budget, unfortunately, the state debt can no longer grow and to maintain the same levels of corruption it is necessary to act on services and take away the money for corruption from citizens. This is perhaps why this House has never passed a proper anti-corruption law: because we must maintain the level of remuneration of the corrupt; and if this level must remain high, unfortunately the elections and the popular opinion are a sad necessity. So somehow it takes away power from the people. It is true that the people are not aware of what you are doing, but they have not even noticed the effects of the budget balance you have introduced in the Constitution. You, moreover, mystify reality very well, so the people are not realizing what you are taking away from them: you are not taking away from them a House, but freedom, life, everything that they had conquered, over the decades, our constituent Fathers. I don't have much more to add. I only spoke because I wanted, before leaving - hopefully very soon - these Asphyxitic classrooms, to leave to the children and to those who sent me here, my free thought. You see, we are scumbags, we represent a people poor in material goods, because you have taken them all away, but we are rich in the soul and we carry forward a dream that has given us a comedian, but the ridiculous are not us, it is you, and in a race of misery and nobility I assure you that misery is all on your side and the nobility is only on the side of the people. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u79	He's enlisted to speak Senator Boccardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with trepidation I crossed the threshold of this House about fifteen days ago and with a bit of emotion I feel in this first speech which is of fundamental importance with regard to our Constitution. For the role we play we have a huge job to do with responsibility and conscience, because in my opinion we depend on the survival of people, their feelings, their daily life and the future of our nation. Without making behindology that usually smokes intrigue of the palace, capturing the sterile controversy, it is in the eyes of all the unshakable will of the Government and a substantial part of the PD to continue in a solitary race, without confrontation or sharing, thus engaging in acrobatic palace games or political secretariats, while the country - alas - is sinking in total political, civil and institutional indifference. With these behaviors you give an image, in my view, unupbuilding. We quarrel over everything, and these constitutional changes, rather than reflecting a long, in-depth and constructive debate, as our constituent Fathers did, are marked by permanent clashes between parties and especially within the majority party, while, in the meantime, small and medium-sized enterprises fail or close, increase the unemployed, increase the army of young people or over fifty without work or those distrusted who refuse even to seek it. This government, which would have the objective of transmitting a positive charge of youthful enthusiasm and futuristic dynamism, cannot then approve a hybrid bill on the prerogatives of the Senate, not caring for the errors and contradictions present in this reform that concern nature, composition and function. I want - if you will allow me - to emphasize three. The first contradiction concerns the functions of the Senate: if in a first phase the right balance had been found between the functions between the Chamber and the Senate and, with the autonomy necessary to exercise the function of control, it had been able to transpose the instances of the Regions and the Municipalities, because of the changes this balance has been distorted, effectively canceling the prerogatives of the Senate and the Regions, eliminating any function of connection and control. The Senate remains only a function of participation in those which were of its own direct competence, thus turning out to be a mere appendix to the Chamber of Deputies. The second concerns the electivity of the Senate: electing it indirectly, there would be no possibility of choice or even of knowledge on the part of the elector. I am also referring to the way voters choose for the metropolitan cities, and I seriously start to think that the will to expel the people from the possibility of choosing their representatives directly is now a fisima of this government. The result of the law abolishing the Provinces, then, is in the eyes of everyone: there has only been a multiplication of costs and armchairs, thus giving rise to a harmful reform that deceives Europe and the Italians, with the result of raising the costs of politics and canceling the participation of the citizens. As for competing subjects, the Senate, considering its functions in the new version, turns out to be a real recreational circle with its unnecessary costs. Articles 1 and 10 of the draft law under consideration, in particular, have undergone major changes in the transition to the Chamber of Deputies, all in the sense of a drastic reduction in the functions, both legislative and non-legislative, attributed to the Senate at first reading. They are no longer autonomous and/or exclusive competence, in fact, all those functions of evaluation, verification and control, proper to a Chamber released from the trust relationship with the Government, thus condemning the High Chamber to a constant subalternity with respect to the decisions of the Chamber of Deputies. The text adopted at first reading, albeit with some shortcomings, was - in my view - a balanced reform. In the combined arrangement of this reform, however, only one party is allowed to exercise an uncontested power, not only within the Chamber of Deputies, but in the relations between the House and the Senate, in those between the State and the Regions, in the election of the President of the Republic and, finally, in the composition of the Constitutional Court. I could go on for a long time, but I think it is more important to put another aspect to the attention of this sum, or rather - forgive me - a question: are we really convinced that we can solve the problems of the people who suffer, who do not have a job, who cannot eat, starting from a constitutional reform, fighting for the same for months and paralyzing what structural reforms should be, such as tax reductions, incentives, incentives to companies, battlehorses of this Government? I urge you, therefore, to make every useful effort to find a shared path on important issues, overcoming divisions. In this dramatic situation, we need a common path, using, above all, a common language. This provision has been discussed for a long time, but reasoning does not mean succumbing to the logic of numbers. Today politics is perceived as cryptic, astute, self-referential, cynical and cold. Let us try to include in the vocabulary of politics terms such as participation, involvement, comparison. If we succeed in finding a shared path on these important issues, we will say that we were the generation that, in a spirit of responsibility, was able to indicate a new path, because animated by the spirit of common belonging to a nation that found the strength to react in a moment of great difficulty. If not, I will see, in spite of this, that we are faced with a wall, at a time when in Europe and in the world they are trying to destroy any kind of wall, because they have understood that we are united by a common destiny, that it will be of trust and hope, only if we can meet on the things that unite, putting aside those that divide us. [[Applause from Senator Serafini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u81	Senator Torrisi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u82	Madam President, representative of the Government, fellow senators, the Italian Constitution undoubtedly reflects the fundamental and inalienable principles that, if we do not want to lose, we must integrate with those innovations that will allow Italy to be competitive in Europe and in the world. If other countries react rapidly to change and globalisation, it is certainly due to systems that are more projected towards growth and modernisation rather than conservation. Not reforming our institutional architecture - it doesn't take long to understand it - is a luxury that, today, we can no longer afford: we need to simplify and speed up, but also cut the costs of politics and the times of decisions. The country has been waiting for this reform for too long, there have been many unsuccessful attempts and promises. The debate in this House, at the third reading, serves to remind us that the political, parliamentary and cultural debate on overcoming the bicameralism of equality, for which the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate do the same things and have the same powers, has always found in agreement most scholars and politicians and also in the present Parliament and in the current party structure is absolutely prevalent. Few in Italy question the political unity of the country to direct the prevailing activity of a second Chamber; once stripped of the power to express confidence to the Government, it must be a Chamber of Regions and territorial autonomy. Given that the issue of bicameralism can be resolved because it is widely shared, the political and parliamentary confrontation must concern the reconstruction of relations between the organs of the State, so as to define the new constitutional and institutional balances. This is the path that must be taken into consideration, that is to better identify the functions of the new Senate in order to recover elements of guarantee and balance. We must recover a political and constitutional culture that strengthens and defines the specific reason for the new Senate. Overcoming double trust for governments and a drastic cut in the number of senators is no small thing. They are fair flags for collecting consensus in the country and in the European Union. Under them we must build a project that must have strength and credibility and, therefore, the parliamentary confrontation must focus on how to properly organize the transformation of the Senate into a democratic institution in which the representatives of the territories can express themselves and contribute to the great mission of the unification of the country. The specific reason for the new Senate is the exercise of functions of liaison between the State and the other constituent bodies of the Republic and between them and the European Union. But what does this connection consist of and how does it work? What representative qualities do the new senators need to have to perform it? What is the constitutional balance resulting from the introduction of such a connecting house? To the first question modern constitutionalism answers that the only way to connect the institutions of a complex society is to network with them; it is illusory, as well as constitutionally illegitimate, to suppress and absorb them. Networking is also the only possible defense in the face of the annomic forces that, outside the state and law, tend to condition the world and life. It is not enough to write a link as a label on an empty box; the constitutional rules also need to establish mechanisms and cooperation procedures for this link to be implemented. The Constitutional Court and many lawyers have long been calling for this: a constitutional framework for suitable instruments to ensure cooperation between the different levels of government and defuse the conflict between them. We need a political body, a Chamber of Independents, but equipped with the tools to network within the State, and outside, in the European Union, because in the supranational order the second Chambers have the same weight as the first and every European norm must inexorably confront on the ground of autonomy with subsidiarity and proportionality. On this level, the text needs to be improved. In fact, Enzo Cheli argues that: In a constitutional reform text, all parties are strongly interconnected as expressions of a complex and coherent system where everything is held. It is a well-founded thesis, reinforced by the intention to convene a referendum on an entire project confirming its close unity. A rationalization is therefore still possible in order to bring the good of the project to fruition; good not only for our state, but also for the European Union, where political stability is interdependent like the economy. By collecting also the contributions that come from constitutionalists animated by this spirit and that share these assumptions, acquired the fact that it is important to approve the reform in this legislature and that the members of the Senate will be the representatives of territorial and local autonomy, we concentrate the parliamentary commitment on the functions to be attributed to this institution, which have been reduced in the transition to the House, to organize them to the best in order to carry out the mission that we intend to give them. Unfortunately, most of the controversy and criticism is directed at how to prevent the reform from being completed. Perhaps he was wrong in considering the two cornerstones of the reform (elimination of joint bicameralism and Senate as representative of the autonomy) and not to increase the discussion on the political-cultural justification of its need and on the concrete problems of its implementation. But it is still possible to achieve this objective with improved amendments and a calm debate that can improve the quality of the constitutional text. The other important issue that has strongly divided the political and parliamentary confrontation concerns the composition of the new Senate, on which it is possible to find a high mediation strengthening the choice to build the second Chamber as an assembly that really brings the voice of regional and local institutions to the center of the State, in an authoritative way, maximum expression of the principle of autonomy affirmed as fundamental in the Constitution. There are different paths, which have already been proposed by members of the People's Area, such as Senator Quagliariello, and by the same president of the 1st Finocchiaro Commission, who could overcome the antithesis between a Senate of nominees and one with direct and universal election. The conflict on this point of the reform is likely to frustrate the reform and once again to delegitimize the whole of Parliament because of its inability to sum up. The spread seemed irreconcilable, two armed camps engaged in a sort of religious war. And like all wars of religion, this blinds and does not allow to see simple and practicable solutions. I believe there is a political and technical space, which is emerging, to find the meeting between the different positions. The political theme of a constitutional reform that has been discussed for decades is not so much direct or indirect election, but if Italy is ready to overcome the perfect bicameralism in favour of governance. This is indeed the crucial point of a new institutional and parliamentary structure, which leaves senators a role of direction and control, but deprives them of the power to give confidence to the government, overcomes the perfect bicameralism and greatly reduces them in number. Perhaps it would be more fair and more straightforward for Italian citizens to say whether or not they believe that this reform can make Italy a more modern country or if they are afraid, instead, that the doors will open to the risk of a reduction of democracy. A single Chamber that makes laws and supports the Government or distrust undoubtedly simplifies the system, makes majorities more stable, speeds legislative action, makes clearer merits and responsibilities, lights the spotlight on the behaviour of individual parliamentarians without the need to introduce mandate constraints, as Rescigno argues. This does not weaken our democracy. As far as the reform of bicameralism is concerned, I would like to stress that the choice of equalism by the constituents, for the political reasons of that historical moment, represented a deviation from the models of the form of parliamentary government. In fact, the form of parliamentary government is based on the trust relationship not with every House of Parliament, but only with that which directly expresses popular sovereignty. The form of parliamentary government can only be strengthened, and not weakened, by overcoming the anomalous Italian bicameralism. There is certainly a need for limits to government power, but these limits lie in the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court and the CSM elected with quorums that escape the majority; they are in the investigative judiciary completely autonomous from the Government, they are in the vertical separation of powers, in referendums and above all in the role of opposition, which is fundamental in the parliamentary systems (where Executive and Legislative are merged by trust and not separated as in pure presidential systems) and which therefore needs to be strengthened. Whoever loses must have real powers of control over the work of Government, but who loses is in the Political Chamber, and not in that representative of the territorial institutions. Action can still be taken to improve relations between state bodies. In fact, every power of the national State has its own field of competence and the prerogatives that that competence allows it to exercise. This correct vision has as its historical source the rule of law theorized by Montesquieu. This is the premise of every democracy and we must intervene - as Stefano Rodotà reminds us - in order to ensure greater participation of that new organization of social powers which goes under the name of counter-democracy. In this sense it is not a crime, both for those who want this reform of the Senate, and for those who do not want it, to question the new electoral law, which offers the majority prize to the party and not to the coalition that takes more votes. The electoral law and Senate reform are directly involved in this view of the rule of law, because - as Passigli believes - it must be stressed that all democratic systems are based on an essential common denominator of balance between powers. For these reasons, the People's Area believes that further action must be taken, certainly after the approval of the constitutional reform, and after an important cultural and institutional reflection on the electoral law, providing for the modification of the coalition award to overcome the choice, which today appears hyper-major, made with the so-called Italicum for the election of the House. Italicum is an electoral system that values the theme of governance, but penalizes and mortifies the issue of representation, which is equally important, allowing even a party with just 30% to win the elections and obtain 55% of the polling stations. With a coalition system, if well used by political forces, the important objective can be achieved in democracies to better represent the majority of citizens and to have greater electoral legitimacy. Let bicameralism be eliminated, but keep that supreme good which is the balance between powers. An overall view of all institutional reforms - constitutional and electoral reform - and also the discipline of political parties are necessary to verify and develop the overall system of balances and so-called weights and counterweights. Of course, we must intervene by having clearly and knowing how to respect the sense of the limit, as President Napolitano has observed, because we cannot start from scratch, do and undo the canvas at this stage of constitutional reform, determining for the umpteenth time an unforgivable failure and, also, determining a political crisis that would prevent us to face the other issues that are dear to the Italians (the cutting of taxes, employment, the modernization of the State, the fight against corruption and the end of public waste). We create the political and constituent climate that will allow us to proceed to a balanced reform without unnecessary forcing, indeed with the corrections necessary to approve it with a wider and more solid majority... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u83	Let's give Senator Torrisi the audio again so that he can finish his speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u84	TORRISI (AP (NCD-UDC)). It is right that this should be the case for a constitutional reform that is up to a modern democracy. The last word in the referendum will be for the Italians. They will decide whether we have done a good job as a Parliament. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u87	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, since the anti-Mafia Commission has also been convened, I went to ask President Grasso for clarification, but he is unattainable and will only be free in half an hour. I believe that you have the responsibility to stop these calls, which could be postponed until tomorrow, because what is happening is very serious. It is a situation of grave violation of the right of Members to follow the debate on constitutional reforms on a purely technical issue that you are before. I believe that, in the absence of the availability of President Grasso, you have the moral, political and ethical duty, beyond the regulations that are constantly mentioned, to interrupt this sitting for half an hour or to interrupt the meetings of the Commission, which will be convened tomorrow. It doesn't seem to me that the country dies if RAI 3 director Vianello is auditioned by the Democratic Party tomorrow. I don't think the country dies if the bicameral anti-mafia commission is scheduled for tomorrow. Am I right or not? [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u88	I remind you of what you're saying...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u89	AIROLA (M5S). You have moral, political and institutional responsibility. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have a responsibility to chair this House. AIROLA (M5S). No appeal to Rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u90	No, I appeal to Article 29, because it is the rules that must govern our work, otherwise anyone can stand up and ask for something. If you'll excuse me, you asked me a question and I'll answer it. If you know the Rules of Procedure, when it comes to Senate committees or bicameral committees chaired by senators, Rule 29 (8) of the Rules of Procedure applies. With regard to the bicameral committees chaired by Members, the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber shall apply, according to which it shall be considered whether or not to proceed. That's the answer, and I can't give you another one. (Senator Airola again asks for the floor.) I'm sorry, Senator Airola, but I can't give you the floor any further. AIROLA (M5S). Then I speak the same. Do you want this? Give me your word. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I will give you the floor for the last time and for a few minutes, so that we can then proceed with the debate, since you have already explained your point of view abundantly and I have given you the answer. You are therefore replying for the last time, even if there is no right to reply to the application of the Rules of Procedure, and then we proceed. AIROLA (M5S). Meanwhile, thank you for this show of democracy that I hope the televisions present will resume. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Look, Senator, democracy is made up of respect for the rules. You are not respecting democracy if you do not respect the rules.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u91	Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure provides for a Member to be entitled to follow the proceedings. It seems to me that this is more than anything. Secondly, I wonder whether it is not possible to ask the House - which, among other things, is also deserted - whether there is the intention to suspend it in accordance with the rights of Members of Parliament, and I am not just talking about those of the 5 Star Movement, because it is a right acquired by all of us. Let us take a vote and consider whether we can suspend our work for half an hour. Does that sound like a demand out of the world? You, Mr President, take on this political responsibility, because it will not end here unless you assume your responsibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u92	I assume my responsibility, which is to proceed in the work according to the timetable approved by the Leaders. I repeat, this is my responsibility. And the participation of senators takes place in the forms provided for by the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure provide...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u93	But do you know that I have to go to the RAI Supervisory Board? Do you know that? You're all accomplices to this stuff! Do you realize that? In the Supervisory Committee there is the hearing of Andrea Vianello and the Anti-Mafia Commission is also convened! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, please contain your reactions. Everybody shut up, right? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please moderate your tones. AIROLA (M5S). What tone and tone? This is still a Democratic Republic! You are incapable of managing an assembly. [[Applause from Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u94	Let alone a nation! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u95	Madam President, I should have been on the RAI Supervisory Committee at the moment, but that is clearly not possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u96	You can ask the President of the Commission, whom you are sure to know, to disconcert you, as you do.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u97	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, illustrious President-in-Office of the Council (who is not), members of the Commission, the present proposal for reform of the institutions which is intended to impose on the country is the sad confirmation of the absolute inadequacy of this Government to offer the country a real hope of getting out of the crisis in which the majority parties themselves have caused it to sink. The 5 Star Movement, and in particular in these days with its campaign for citizenship income, is here in Parliament to remind politics of what society already knows very well, namely that the real problem of the country is not given by the system of election of the senators of the Republic, but by how to assure all citizens the right to dream of a better life. Moreover, what could be expected from a class of old young people, who grew up in the illusion that climbing to party secretariats was the solution to every problem; from those who believe that the economy is represented by the golden and fake world of finance, except that they have to see the inability to stem the disastrous state on public debt, on the efficiency of services and on the protection of the fundamental rights of citizens. Beyond the fictions and propaganda of the mass media and the illusory transformations of precarious contracts into precarious relationships of work, so to speak, indeterminate, this Government is unarmed in the face of the real problems of the common people. The data on poverty is a terrible warning for all of us. In this context, it is thought that we can deceive the citizens, deceiving them that their problems will be solved by a package of institutional reforms which, indeed, will do nothing. The Senate will not be abolished and will continue to represent a huge cost to the country. Emoluments will turn into expense refunds and costs will only increase. All this, however, will have the perverse effect of weakening democracy, i.e. the possibility for citizens to be represented by directly elected persons. There will, therefore, be a Senate full of anonymous bureaucrats who will respond to the usual party secretariats and who will not have to give account to the citizens of their work. It is a real monstrosity, typical of a political class that, behind the young age of some of its new exponents, hides the vices of an old and hypocritical policy. Rationalising costs and returning political commitment to normal are processes that do not require costly institutional reforms. The 5 Star Movement has already done so in a very short time, demonstrating how in life, and therefore also in politics, a bit of good will and moral integrity is sufficient to try to reverse the course and initiate processes of change useful for common development. It seems superfluous to recall the historical origin of the model of perfect bicameralism that we want to destroy here today. Also in this case there is the great deception of this policy towards the country. The laws demand meditated and serious processes of formulation because they must last over time and really resolve the problems of citizens. For a long time, however, every government has deceived the nation with complex and costly reform processes that, systematically, do not have time to come into force and then be cancelled after a short time. The development and growth of Italy cannot be entrusted to frantic, superficial and often harmful legislation. It is time to understand that each of us, with our own behavior, must take responsibility for change. We should reduce the amount of legislation to improve its quality. We should take responsibility for improving the regulatory process, not so much on time but especially on quality. The rationalization of procedures can be entrusted to the simple modification of the Regulations and does not require destructive interventions of our Constitution, weakening or even canceling fundamental safeguards of democracy and freedom, such as the direct election of parliamentarians and the system of bicameralism, which allows to avoid handstrokes to a dictatorial and false majority like the current one. As many illustrious colleagues have always said, defenders of freedom and democracy, today they bow their heads to the arrogance of a government and its President-in-Office of the Council. The hope of a small chair, the preservation of privileges, hypocrisy and lack of courage mark an unworthy stage in our parliamentary history. Those who were painted as dangerous revolutionaries are today the only defenders of freedom and democracy in our country. It is we of the 5 Star Movement, the supposed amateurs of politics, here, today, who proudly deny our consent and our adherence to a real suicide of democracy in Italy. Italy does not need the Government of Renzi and its gang of young old shop friends. President Renzi recently reminded all Italians that our Constitution is seventy years old. He cares so much about our Constitution that he does not even know its date of birth. Probably didn't fit into the arguments designed to win as many as five episodes of the "Wheel of Fortune." Dear Renzi, what we can tell you is that sooner or later the wheel spins. And for her and her fake majority we of the 5 Star Movement are sure that this is already happening, and that's beyond her chatter and her campaigns buying some co-worker, afraid of losing the chair. We of the 5 Star Movement - those that Renzi's neo-purchase, illustrious Senator D'Anna, has defined "four pezzenti" - we are sure that Italy has the desire to have a new, normal political class, that is ready, with integrity, courage and sense of responsibility, to build a new country, attentive to the needs of the weakest and ready to enhance the desire for happiness of its young people. The 5 Star Movement will continue to defend everyone's right to dream of a better Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u98	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u99	Madam President, before we talk about the contents of what you have written in this that we could call a dismantling of the Constitutional Charter, perhaps it would be appropriate to point out something that seems secondary throughout history, but that at the end of the day is not. These days I was particularly curious to see how you of the Government and the majority would explain to the Italians what is coming to an end or what you would like to conclude in this House. I was very curious to see what the ultimate goal of the reforms you are trying to approve was. Listening to you, you've been able to understand something. It was basically understood that you absolutely don't give a damn how to explain this to Italian citizens. Please note: both Minister Boschi and Head of Government and PD, to all the questions asked by journalists on this subject, always answer with the same mantra: It doesn't matter to the Italians. And so, from Gruber, Latella and other talk shows, it's always a succession of: "But what does it matter to the Italians about Senate reform?" or: Do you really believe that the Italians are interested in what you want me to talk about? The Italians are interested in other things: what we have done, jobs act, economy, good school, unlocking Italy, blah blah blah, which, by the way, I think it should be known to Italians. Perhaps the Italians are more interested in understanding the umpteenth game that you made by giving you the money of public refunds, that is what happened in the House just now. Even if what you are going to tell is true, do you realize what you are saying and the seriousness of what you are saying? You're telling the whole nation that it doesn't have to deal with the rules that should keep it alive, strong and firm to the fundamental principles of civil life and the coexistence of citizens. You are telling the Italians that their role is only to produce, consume and die. That is what you are saying to them, and that is the message you constantly give to unified networks to the people and citizens. Tell them that few will decide what is best for them. Tell the Italians that it is not necessary that they are interested in the form of State or in the form of Government, because they would not understand it and you like that nobody cares about it. Why? It is right for you that a small circle, which is believed to be what you would once call intelligentsia, decides for all citizens and that they are interested in something else and distract themselves with consumption. And then your idea and your picture are completed with two other black pieces of the mosaic: the school, reducing the space of public education for everyone, because knowledge makes you free, while it is ignorance that makes you prisoners; income, depriving and not giving citizens the income of citizenship, because giving it would make people free from your blackmail, while it is not giving it that continues to hold them captive. And you need prisoners, to preserve your beautiful elitist positions and to reason on the form of government in few, in some beautiful living room or in some beautiful library with limited access. Well, gentlemen, this is an unacceptable approach for us at the 5 Star Movement. A five-star citizen is just the opposite of what you want: maybe that's why we're so annoying. A five-star citizen is someone who has decided to take action, because he's really annoyed to hear: "Come on, it doesn't concern you about this issue, think about something else." We must then address ourselves - and I address myself personally - to all the free citizens of this country to encourage them to ask questions, to read and to ask themselves what is happening in the institutions that determine our lives and that of the generations that will come. Give your opinion, freely. We, unlike them, will do everything we can to help you understand what's going on. We, unlike them, believe that this reform is of deep concern to you. We, unlike them, need you all to care, we all care about our country. After this premise, which concerns the interaction between our actions and what is transmitted out, just a few points we need to see. After attending the theater of the last few days, what happens here and outside, some cues however we have to see. With this reform you claim that you want to overcome the bicameralism of equality, because this mechanism would slow down the legislative process. Senator Caliendo told us that on average, in this legislature, a law was passed in 109 days; in the last legislature it took 200. Well, 391 laws were passed in the last parliamentary term. Perhaps the problem of Italy is not how long it takes to make laws, but that we make too many laws. Is that the problem? They are laws made on purpose, to make the machine cumbersome and incomprehensible, and the citizen gets lost in it. Is that what we have to do? And then, sovereignty belongs to the people (Article 1). So? The senators who will come in here from whom will they be chosen: from the usual party secretariats? Sovereignty to whom does it belong: to the people or party secretariats? Then in the Senate we want to put the regional councillors, also part time, and the mayors, to whom we still give a nice parliamentary immunity. But do you think we're all crazy here? Do you think we don't understand and that people outside don't understand? How do you think I don't understand that? The Regions have an army of investigating advisors. In 2014 there were 521, not one, and you give him immunity? Are you kidding me? And then, with what ratio do we give a new robe to the Senate? It does not express confidence in the government nor will it have functions, since you have virtually canceled it. This bill, therefore, by not abolishing it, makes the Senate a deflated puppet. In the transition to the House, they evaporated in order: the exclusive functions of maintaining relations with the European Union; the control functions of authority curricula; the competences on issues of bioethics, family, law, etc. What's left? Almost nothing. So, as I said to Mr Boschi when we first spoke in the first Commission, we abolished the Senate! At least it makes sense, otherwise it doesn't make sense, and I don't have to quote Vasco Rossi, damn it. If we want to abolish the Senate, at this point we save 550 million, because it costs the Senate so much, if we say we do it for the money. It would have been better - and it would have been better - to rebalance the number of senators and MPs: it would have been enough to reduce them by a third to the House and the Senate; we would have achieved a good effect by reducing the total number of members of Parliament to a smaller number than the reform envisaged. What did it take? Nothing. Finally, as has been said several times by many, this reform is linked to a new electoral system that so much wanted the PD, the Italicum, which gives us Italy that we do not want, and that no one can want. The same party makes the laws; practically elects the President of the Republic by himself and determines the majority of the guarantee bodies. Thus the delicate balance of weights and counterweights that has led the Constituents to write the Constitution is dismantled. The weight is so concentrated in the House. Thanks to an impressive majority prize, only one party wins and takes everything: in the face of respect for minorities guaranteed by the Constitution! Even the Light Institute, which was the news agency of the 20th century, would not have supported such a system. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. CIOFFI (M5S). Given what the dictatorship was, the twenty years in this country, why do you want to go back? What's the reason? We came here not only to defend some of the key points of our system, but to look beyond, to move forward. If you want to go back, you will find in us the most fierce opposition, inside and outside this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u100	Senator Amidei is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to reflect on this constitutional reform. We have spoken in many, more or less sharing not so much the content, but the method. It is above all on the method, but also on the content, that I wish to speak, making some reflections. The decision of Forza Italia to collaborate in the process of constitutional reform was of seriousness and made for the good of the country and in the certainty that changing the rules must be a common path and to be done together with all responsible forces. In addition, the underlying system contained some - albeit not all - elements that have been the historical heritage of Forza Italia: the end of the perfect bicameralism and the subjects of concurrent competence between the State and the Regions, which in recent years have caused immense damage in the management of the public thing. This sharing process was interrupted by the Democratic Party's decision to unilaterally elect President Mattarella in an attempt to recompose internal fractures. The transition to the Chamber of Deputies, the changes made and the obtuse and unshakable will of the Government and the Democratic Party to continue in a solitary race without confrontation, nor sharing have radically changed the situation. Our judgment on this reform, therefore, can only be negative. As we have seen, the central points concerning Senate reform are the following: Article 1 amending Article 55 of the Constitution concerning the nature of the Senate; Article 2 amending Article 57 of the Constitution on the composition of the Senate; Article 10 amending Article 70 of the Constitution on legislative functions. Articles 1 and 10, in particular, have undergone major changes in the transition to the Chamber of Deputies, which have all gone in the direction of a drastic reduction in the legislative and non-legislative functions attributed to the Senate at first reading. They are no longer autonomous or exclusive competence, in fact, all functions in the matter of evaluation, verification and control of public policies, of connection between the State and the Regions, of financial autonomy of the local authorities and of legislative autonomy of the Regions own of a Chamber released from the trust relationship with the Government, thus condemning the Upper House to a constant subordinateness with respect to the decisions of the other Chamber. The Senate, which in this new version is quite secondary, is therefore reduced to that after-work of the regional councillors that someone had already predicted. This real annulment of the Senate is due to the weakness of the source of legitimacy deriving from the method of election of senators provided for in Article 2 of the provision. That is why we are calling for a return to a direct election of senators that enhances the popular will and guarantees the recognition of candidates by the elector, in order to give back to the Senate the role necessary to draw a balanced constitutional structure. The text adopted at first reading was, albeit with some shortcomings, a balanced reform that was very attentive to the checks and balances of the different levels of state. With the combined arrangement of this reform and Italicum, only one party is allowed, which requires only 20-25 percent of the votes to gain a majority prize, to exercise an uncontested power, not only within the Chamber, but also in the relations between the House and the Senate and between the State and the Regions, as well as in the election of the President of the Republic and in the composition of the Constitutional Court. Another amendment to the Chamber of Deputies concerns precisely the way in which the judges of the Constitutional Court are elected. The text approved in the Senate provided that of the five elected judges, three were elected by the Chamber and two by the Senate, while the subsequent amendment refers to the modalities currently provided for in the Constitution, i.e. the election of the five judges by the Parliament in common session. However, it should be borne in mind that the numerical relationship between the two rooms has been profoundly altered. We are talking about six hundred and thirty Members against one hundred senators and, therefore, the weight of the senators in the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court becomes virtually zero. Article 31 of the provision amends Article 117 of the Constitution, concerning the division of legislative powers between the State and the Regions. An article that should have sanctioned the sacrosanct principle of clarity of legislative powers and competences, if true clarity had been made. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem that way. The reading of the new Article 117, in fact, gives rise to serious doubts, already from the multiplicity and variety of terms used to indicate legislative competences, fundamental principles, coordination rules, general principles, general order profiles. They all seem generic terms and facts placed to seek and create confusion. Moreover, if we look at the relationship between the State and the Regions that derives from the arranged combination of a new Senate called to represent the territorial institutions and a new division of legislative competences between the State and the Regions, there is the doubt that the archaic concurrent competence still exists, even under disguised remains. It recites the dossier prepared by the Study Office of this Chamber that the abolition of the concurrent legislative competence does not often result in mere bipartition in exclusive state or regional competence, but rather a irradiation or eviction in multiple types of competence cohabitations between State and Regions. From various parts, including the majority of the Regions, complains of the result of having a regional council of monco part of its members called to compose a Senate representative of the local institutions without however there being any bond with the institution of origin. The question of the Provinces must also be addressed, albeit briefly. The Delrio law had begun to empty its powers in view of their abolition, which in this reform actually takes place, apparently. In fact, the present reform constitutionalizes the existence of large-area entities, administrative bodies that without any popular legitimacy will partly inherit the responsibilities of the Provinces. Mr President, fellow senators, dear fellow citizens, if the vote in the coming days is what the government and the majority expect, the history of the Senate as a legislative chamber will be finally concluded. Is that good or bad? The question is not rhetorical and the answer is not obvious. It is good or bad, as in all things, according to what will prevail. Trying to synthesize in a few minutes questions on which constitutionalists poured rivers of ink, there is no doubt that perfect bicameralism was an anomaly only Italian. An anomaly born with precise historical reasons, which for a long time was considered no longer to have any reason to be, but which today, by virtue of the different electoral systems of the Chamber and Senate, has returned to have a meaning, problematic from the point of view of governance, but strong from the point of view of control and guarantees. This is a value that we will certainly lose. The combined arrangement of the new electoral law and the abolition of the powers of the Senate means that a political force capable of obtaining 25% of the votes could govern our country without counterweights and mediations. Is that good or bad? I leave the answer to your reflection. A reflection that must also take into account the extraordinary fall in voters, with 25% of the valid votes corresponding to 12-13% of voters. It is a strange democracy, the one in which 13% of voters choose the government, which will be able to operate for five years without counterweights. The democratic conscience of our fellow Members should take a thorough look at this before we vote on our own decision. Of course, perfect bicameralism was no longer sustainable. It is a system that does not apply anywhere in the world. But it is true that every country has its history, its characteristics, its traditions: otherwise the Constitutions could all be the same. But there are only two logical ways to overcome the perfect bicameralism. One is very simple: it is enough to abolish the Senate. Unmistakably abolishing it. Monocameral systems are no less democratic than bicameral systems. The United Kingdom has for a long time been a substantially monocameral system, the House of Lords performs almost only honorary and symbolic functions, yet it is the oldest and most solid democracy in the world. Monocameralism is a choice, questionable, but that has a systemic consistency. The other way is to differentiate the competences between the Senate and the Chamber, giving the Senate the role of a specialized legislative assembly, perhaps detached from trust to the Government, with strong powers of control and rebalancing. In this case, it is difficult to find a logical reason why it should not be elected by the citizens. Why take away from voters the right to choose who represents them? Why assign it to the Regional Councils? To save money on ballots and electoral pencils? It's a little weak in democracy. Yet the non-electivity of the Senate seems to be one of the insurmountable limits from which the Government and the majority do not intend to ignore for any reason. I'm going back to asking, why? Why entrust to a local political class, which has, among other things, given bad self-esteem in recent times, a power that could be much more legitimately exercised by citizens? The fact is that this reform contains a flaw at the root. The fault of not choosing. He doesn't choose to abolish the Senate, but he doesn't even choose to give him tasks. He chooses only to make it survive, as an institutional larva, not elected, without a clear role, composed of regional advisors who will live it as a post-worker, or as the place where to make goods of power, influence, territorial lobbying or corporate. Precisely the phenomena that are the basis - much more than bicameralism - of the slowness and contradiction of Italian legislative production. What's the new senate gonna do? It will have a regional council of part of its members, called to compose a Senate representative of the local institutions without however there being any bond with the institution of origin. In the end, then, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow citizens, what can be said about this reform of the Constitution? Does it reform, transform, or deform? And what's deformed? The real nature? Yes, so the true nature of the inspiring principles of the Constitution is distorted, creating an unformed Senate, which resembles a small monster with uncertain and indefinable connotations, or a small Chamber, or perhaps a closet. At this point, we might as well have eliminated the Senate altogether. Thank you. We're worried. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u102	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u103	Madam President, thank you. Now, beyond the natural differences between the political groups, it would have been necessary for the majority to have sought first of all in the work of revising the Constitution the unity of Parliament on some shared values and on the fundamental rules of public life. I believe that nothing more harms the future of the country than the breaking of the principles on which our democratic coexistence rests. There is much uncertainty, perhaps even fear, in Italian society. Citizens need to recover with politics a stronger relationship, consisting of content and not just image, ideals and not just marketing, seriousness and stability and not uncertainty and precariousness. And again: Maybe in front of this mess every comment is really superfluous. With the new Article 70 we have reached the maximum possible institutional confusion, the approximate and out-of-place transposition of mechanisms present in other foreign Constitutions, the introduction of devices that make difficult any decision of serious technical deficit in the drafting of the text of the norm. (...) If, however, we can no longer exercise the legislative function of this kind of State with linearity? A pseudo-federal reform of the Constitution can break our already precarious positive balances, causing serious damage to our institutional stability, made more fragile in recent years by improvised reform operations and not widely shared, starting with electoral reform, university teaching, the radio and television system, the fiscal shield, the law on interrogations and the many personalized laws. What you have just heard are not my words, they are the words of Luigi Zanda (newly elected senator of the 14th legislature), rendered at the session of the Senate in the afternoon of 16 November 2005. At that time the so-called federal reform of the Constitution of Silvio Berlusconi, President of the Council, was being discussed. Even then, the aim was to reduce the number of parliamentarians, change the composition and functions of the Senate, streamline - but only on paper - the process of passing the laws, alter the way in which legislative powers are set up, strengthen the role of the Executive. And even then, what is now the majority used sharp words, claiming the unity of Parliament and harshly condemning the Commission's unsolicited attitude. Again, the bitter analysis of a policy has become a sales strategy, a buying campaign, a market study. The need to avoid tearing the principles on which democratic coexistence is based, as well as political, was lamented. Is everything forgotten today? Today the ox calls the donkey cuckold. The parliamentary accounts, fortunately, leave a written record of what was happening and happens again, otherwise the good party discipline - that which today sees hundreds of servants kneeling - would have imposed a historical revisionism, or worse, a historical negationism, because they would come to tell that it was not so, that we had invented everything, that we are the usual "owls." Already we endure too much offense, including that of being pointed at as clumsy and scumbags. And again this time the ox calls the donkey cuckold. Almost ten years after that November 16th, things have not changed at all, except for some exchange of armchairs between majority and opposition, some reversals of roles and charges, some change of shirt of the team for which you play, a lot of hypocrisy and bipolar syndromes from compulsory health treatment (TSO). However, the substance remains identical and is unfortunately chilling. Lions in the corridors, newspapers, talk shows and rabbits when it comes to voting for any act that comes before this House. This is because you do not care if the country goes to ruins and if you trample on the people's will and democracy. You shut your nose and do not do what is best for the citizens you represent, that is for your direct superior. Do what you can, instead, for your rear, which must remain well glued to the chair, and to keep it that way, implement tragically pathetic strategies. You already know that there is an Executive, made up of the Government. Why, then, create a parliamentary structure where there is an over-representation of regional and local executive bodies? Behind this idiot move, in fact, hides your usual cunning by Italians: the new Senate will consist of senators from regional councils or mayor senators, who will enjoy undisturbed parliamentary immunity. Therefore, they will benefit from a "privilege" for Members, although they are not Members. This is because having immunity means "zero interceptions" and "zero arrests" in the absence of a vote on the part of the body. Surely this is good news for all those who are already under investigation and who tremble at the idea of ending up in the slum. In this sense, the appeal made more than a year ago by constitutionalists, jurists, academics such as Gustavo Zagrebelsky, at the dawn of the presentation of this reform returns more than current. In the appeal, which sounds almost like a prayer, it is explicitly said that: We are assisting impotently in the project of overturning our Constitution by a Parliament explicitly delegitized by the decision of Constitutional Court No. 1 of 2014, to create an authoritarian system that gives the President of the Council master powers. With the prospect of a monocameralism and the centralised simplification of the administrative order, Italy by Matteo Renzi and Silvio Berlusconi changes face, while the press, parties and citizens are stunned (or condescending) to watch. The responsibility of the PD is enormous because it is allowing the implementation of the plan that was by Berlusconi, a plan persistently opposed in the past in words and now in sordina accepted. The fact that it is not Berlusconi but the leader of the Pd who takes hold of the witness of the authoritarian turn is even more serious because it neutralizes the opinion of opposition. We must stop this project immediately and do it with the same determination with which it was able to stop it when Berlusconi inspired it. It is not membership of a party that is worth making right what is wrong. A plebiscite democracy is not written in our Constitution and it is not something that any citizen who has respect for his political and civil freedom can wish for, whatever the leader proposes it. As I conclude, I would like to say that Minister Boschi suggested to the PD minority a few days ago to go and have a pizza to get along. I suggest another thing to all of you of this absurd coalition, that is to organize you for a full lunch that will give you a chance to reflect on this villainous project. Remember: in any case you are a betrayal eater, you are eating on the shoulders and behind 60 million Italians, including your children who will live in a country that you have really helped to break up. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u104	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start from the concept that the Republican Constitution, like all the Constitutions, was in essence a policy aimed at establishing some fundamental rules of collective life, that the initial conditions wanted open in its elaboration to the contribution of all political forces and destined, like all Constitutions, to rebuild an order that had been disturbed for various reasons. It was precisely an opening to the most diverse contributions that was contained in the option of convening a constituent assembly elected by universal suffrage with a proportional system and of delivering an elaborate one, together with the judgment of political forces and their representatives, avoiding referendum confirmations that could have denied it, either by calling into question other actors (at that time the Church or the survivors of the past regime) or by producing different political alignments. If there was little of a shared political culture, basically it needed very little; it needed the ability to say and not to say, to promise without too much commitment to maintain; as Piero Calamandrei will say years later, it was above all necessary to calm the waters. Given that for the political cultures of the time everything was favorable to the parties, but they were not unbridled supporters of their pluralism, if there were those who looked towards Moscow, there was not even a lack of those who looked towards Lisbon or Madrid. As for the often considered more innovative part of the Constitution, that concerning the protection of the job, the restrictions of the property rights, the social rights and the intervention of the State in the economy, it found impulse in the prevailing presence among the benches of the Assembly constituent representatives of socialist, communist and Catholic-popular extraction, but it is difficult to define it as much more than a set of promises. The views of the three mass parties were also very different and even within them there were no lack of differences. Aware of this multipolarism, of the dramatic tensions underlying it and of the risks involved, the different poles decided to regulate it, adopting democratic-representative institutions. So it is useless to look in the Italian Constitution for proof of a shared culture. It is a document written in very difficult times, by a multiplicity of very different political actors, who with it testified the will to close one page of national history and to open another. Throughout history, the Constitution has been widely used for everything it represented and for what it was written in its articles. And what it originally represented was a multipolar configuration of society and national politics. In the last three decades, in Italy and throughout the West, the idea of a multipolar society has been replaced by that of a unipolar society, in which everyone would agree on the foundations of associated life. Among the shortcomings of which Italy seems to be afflicted, there is that of a robust shared political culture; a well-functioning democracy cannot help it. In reality, that of shared culture is a prejudice that always circulates in democratic thinking, forgetting just how from the conflict modern democratic regimes were born and that, if the conflict can be disruptive, where democratically regulated is a source of vitality for democracy itself. The problem is that humans are very different from each other, that only occasionally in the real world they think the same way, that erase or reduce diversity is an impossible task. We can pretend to achieve it, but it is not at all said, as it is not said that an excess of consensus really benefits democracy, given that it, in addition to being a child of difference, pluralism and conflict, lives of difference, pluralism and conflict. For this reason, the convergence of constituents to no one appears to be the result of a common political culture. This writing took place in a situation of bitter social, cultural and political conflict, and could not have taken place otherwise. Then we will be able to attribute to the constituents the intention to sign together a document that would refound the coexistence between the Italians. But, in the same way, I can also assume that the real orientation was to divide the conduct of the country; or equally, I can believe that the Constitution was used to celebrate the victory against fascism and, finally, that it was only a dilatory move, filled with winks, hypocrisies and mutual concessions. But there is no doubt that for the political class the problem was to dismiss the past as soon as possible, to introduce institutional constraints that would prevent its reappearance, to legitimize, even in the eyes of the international public opinion, the new regime, as well as to recognize the powers that had emerged in the meantime, that is to say the political parties, preventing the prevalence of other powers of fact looming and more difficult to metabolize democratically (the allies on the one hand, the Vatican on the other). (15.15) (Romani Maurizio followed). Therefore, democratic rules had to, at least in the immediate future, promote coexistence between parties, reducing the risks of mutual overwhelmment and laying down the conditions for a government action that alleviated the social problems that many considered amplified and aggravated by fascism and conflict. The parties had become, in the aftermath of the fall of fascism, new institutions, protagonists of public life. Let us remember that fascism had been against the parties and therefore the rehabilitation of the parties and their pluralism was, at least at that time, a duty to pay tribute to restored democracy, overcoming also the liberal tradition in which politics had to be privileged reserve of the notables, the class owners and the educated. This tradition will remain as vital as ever in post-war Italy, until it reaches us, often contaminating itself with right-wing extremism and nourishing an anti-party and anti-political sentiment worthy heir of 19th-century anti-parliamentaryism. We have thus come to the degradation of the country's political culture, which in the 1980s suffered a rapid process of individualistic, particularistic and territorial disintegration; hence the disordered and ephemeral success of the moralizing demands of civil society and the electoral rooting of a secessionist party that has relocated to the extreme right a part of the electorate and moderate classes. I have said that democracy is a mediation technique, but it is also a child of conflict. In Italy the great conflict - that of class - seems to have extinguished or dispersed in thousand rivoli. What Cesare Pinelli defined as the dilemma between constitutional democracy and populist democracy, which contrasts an idea of hypopolitical democracy with a hyperpoliticalized, but both veined of anti-politics, has assumed tones that it is difficult not to consider worrying. Failed the attempts to renew from within the old political class and the traditional parties, the craving for change and the anti-political sign that had been imprinted favored the "descent in the field" of new actors who, together with other hastily converted to democracy, after being for a long time the most severe critics, have hegemonized the moderate and conservative components of society and politics. There are no more visions of the world alternative to neoliberal orthodoxy, and this has brought political programmes considerably closer together. Times change and political culture is now manufactured through the media and in front of them and the media prefer opposition and scandal. Fortunately, even if there is a strong propensity to make the whole thing a bundle, the political class is not all the same. The followers of populist democracy are a large part of it, but there is no shortage of the reactions of democratic opinion, even if the minimum threshold offered by good manners has reluctantly worn out, but this - it should be clear - is not a random effect. The risk of open conflicts was diminished, the reasons for showing themselves to be civil were paradoxically fallen, language was no longer remote, everything was divine, even that the recent past was just a heap of cheating. So politics became embarrassed and the exasperated competition produced by the democracy of alternation did the rest. The Constitution is still the fundamental law of the State. As all laws must be applied. It is a text that derives from its name particular nobility and authority and that has long been used by political actors as a pretext to find and hypothesize a shared future, at least that. Instead, political forces have decided to certify its obsolescence and in doing so, perhaps, it is they who derive the reasons for its greatest weakness. This brings us to the summary justice of a venerable institute such as the Senate of the Republic and the devices that were connected to it, so that, while political forces lack good manners and lack a common culture, there is also a text and a symbol that history had handed down to them, to which to refer. Can you ever be surprised that we are not only struggling to talk to each other, but we are even more struggling to govern and make ourselves understood by the citizens? The men may have been different for a thousand reasons, but a common denominator for most of them existed: they came from the classrooms of the classical high schools of the peninsula and perhaps their common frequentation with the pages of Cicero, Dante and Manzoni is not secondary. The constituents were men and women - unfortunately few - who had internalized certain patterns of behavior. They believed that in a representative Assembly we dress, act, speak in a certain way. That one can be ironic, sarcastic, polemic, but that never insults one another, which then is perhaps the most elementary trait of democratic coexistence. If it is true that shared political cultures exist only in the world of dreams, in political polemics to be democratic it is necessary to be, at least, well-educated. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Misto-IDV Group and the Senators Bencini and Zin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u106	She's registered to speak Senator Bulgarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u107	Mr President, I have really thought a lot about whether to intervene or not and what to say about this reform, whether to make a technical intervention on tiptoe, with more or less famous quotations or let me go and tell you what I try to face this reform and not only. I believe that the point of this reform and of all the last few years here in Parliament is the centralization of power in the hands of a few, a path that has long begun with various acts. Just to name a few: the so-called Delrio decree, the reform of public administration, unblocks Italy. It is a check on the figure of the President of the Council or, when it is right, on the Council of Ministers. The centralization of power in the hands of a few or one man would not be a problem if there were democratic counterweights able to stem this same power in case of abuse, because we know very well how the human soul is, but these counterweights in this reform are not there. I am concerned or, as is said in this House, I am convincedly concerned, especially in this society, that it assesses people for what they have and not for what they are. I am convincedly concerned that anyone who finds himself in the hands of so much power cannot know how he will react, nor what he will do once he has all this power in his hands. There is no certainty of knowing this before, there is no certainty of knowing what will happen and you want to deliver the country directly into his hands? I remember that the country is made of people. What is the only certainty of all that has been done in this last year? Governance. So, making a brief summary, on the altar of governance we sacrifice everything: democracy, separation of powers, protection of rights, including the right to vote and much more. Fortunately, all the governments that have followed in the decades of our Republic in these seventeen legislatures have shown that their primary interest has always been the well-being of the citizens: obviously this is an ironic note. It seems to me that the interest and protection of governments are moved more towards the financial world than towards the citizens, otherwise it is not explained why there are still no reforms that concern a public bank, the banking separation, in short, no reforms that bring back economic democracy, which gives a vital breath to people seen the increase of suicides in this last year. So who will govern who will guarantee, the citizens or the world of finance? Well, that's what I'm really worried about, because there's no certainty what a man or a single woman is gonna do in charge. However, I hope that our history has taught this House something. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u108	He's enlisted to speak Senator Minzolini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u109	A few days ago the Premier declared that seventy years have been trying to reform the Constitution. Well, apart from the fact that the Charter is sixty-seven years old, one thing is certain: I do not know if the Government will be able to bring home the reform, but surely this is the most clumsy attempt of the many who have been put on the field all these years. It is the worst for the type of reform that you want to introduce, for the ways and tools used, for the style, threats and blackmail that most have not hesitated to use. A home story page to forget that could offer Senator Zavoli a copious and certainly non-educational material for another episode of "The Night of the Republic." In fact, to look at the Renzi reform, nobody likes it, apart from his loved ones who, not to be sorry, dare not contradict it. The whole opposition doesn't like it; it doesn't like the vast sectors of the majority; it doesn't like the whole party either, because the mediation we're talking about is a mess, a compromise reached with Byzantine technicalities and an incomprehensible lexicon, with the aim more to safeguard the unity of the PD than to write a Constitution up to the country. Moreover, even a new member of the Premier in Parliament, like Senator D'Anna, in a reminiscence of modesty admits that he does not like the reform, indeed it sucks, and that his vote in favour has only one aim: to save the government. Even the reform has also agreed most of the commentators, from Scalfari to Ostellino, passing by the director of the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) Fontana, who even with different shades rejected or criticized it. A reform so stunned that it has seen sided on the same side of the barricade also characters that they have never loved, indeed they have hated, like Berlusconi, Grillo and Scalfari, that, starting from different points of view, they are convinced that the reform will determine an authoritarian turning point. On the other side Renzi, Alfano, Verdini, Cosentino, Auricchio and a Bersani in the dress of the misunderstood. A nice company, there is nothing but to say, that has two glue: the instinct of survival and the desire to share a little power. Such a situation would raise doubts for anyone. And anyone would have taken a pause for reflection. But not the Premier who, forgetting that constitutional reforms, by their nature, should spring from a parliamentary confrontation and collect a broad consensus (Napolitano and Mattarella even in 1995 presented a bill that introduced the two-thirds threshold for amendments to the Constitution), instead, transformed them into a point. A sort of hypertrophy of the ego, a brand-new Marquis of the Cricket of the Institutional Palaces who in comparison with Parliament recites the famous joke: "Because I know'me and you are not a... I'm gonna stop right here. Result: we are giving life to a Senate that at best will be useless, at worst harmful. I do not want to dwell on the authoritarian turning point I have already mentioned in the past, but certainly the combined reform and Italicum can even put a party of 25%, and its secretary, in the conditions of conquering the absolute majority, to choose the Head of State and condition the appointment of the majority of the judges of the Consulta; a scheme that recalls the Soviet system dominated by the PCUS. And it is useless that the Premier ironizes on the "authoritarian turn": Italicum has a single precedent in this country, the Acerbo law of the years of the beam. Anyway, I don't want to delay in historical controversy. I merely address the ideological basis of this reform, the so-called deciding democracy. Well, if Renzi and PD have arrived now, I wrote for more than thirty years, following the attempts of the many who tried to introduce it. But if before it made sense to bring this requirement into play, the Renzi government has shown that it is certainly not today's priority issue. The material Constitution, in fact, changed considerably after the Monti government and the tools used by the same Renzi government proves it: 45 trusts, 38 decrees-laws. In fact, on the case of the closure of the Colosseum, the Government in less than twelve hours was able to issue a decree-law to address the problem. Not to mention the abuse of delegated laws: there have been 17 such measures, between those approved and those in itinerant: that is, Parliament has been called on many times to adopt guidelines of a law that the Government will then implement as it pleases. Let us be honest: the Government has seen its prerogatives and powers extended to the detriment of Parliament. If he does not govern it is because he is not able to govern, certainly not because he lacks the powers. If anything, these changes, this increase in executive power did not respond to a process of greater legitimacy: just think that the government that is going to change the Constitutional Charter did not have any electoral baptism and does not do so on the basis of a mandate of voters, since the program of Bersani - to hear the interested person - was quite different. No, the philosophy that is being applied is different: instead of making the power of the Executive stronger and more legitimate through the direct election of the President of the Republic or the Premier, it tends to weaken Parliament. In short, it is not a strong government that draws its strength from the popular investiture to confront a strong Parliament, but a government that draws its strength from the weakening of Parliament. The arranged constitutional reform-Italicum, in fact, is the last stage of this process begun with the Monti Government with the blessing of the then head of the State, Giorgio Napolitano. In addition, this reform is not just following a false problem, but is likely to create another one: it also contains a recentralisation of powers. The State, to be clear, takes up the tasks it had delegated to the Regions. We have been witnessing the crisis of this local authority for years. There are many who theorize the birth of macro-regions that should replace the present. But while studying these operations and transformations, the Renzi Government creates a Senate made up of mayors and members of a list decided by candidates to the presidencies of the Regions. Of course, the proposal is confusing: it is not clear whether these senators will be elected directly or whether, instead, they will have to be invested by the Regional Councils. But apart from that, the real point is that these senators will be loyal to the governor who had them elected and of course defend their prerogatives with their teeth. So on the one hand the Government wants to invoke powers given to the Regions to itself; on the other hand, fatally, the idea of a Senate that risks becoming a union of the Regions advances. In short, with a certain superficiality, the foundations of tomorrow's institutional conflicts are being laid. We will repeat what happened with the reform of Title V and with the devolution. Only this time the institutional conflict, Chamber- Senate of the Regions, will be horizontal: there will be two bodies that will have the same degree of legitimacy, not to mention that in front of a government that sees its influence grow a lot, the main problem is not that of the relationship with the Regions, but that of creating an institution of guarantee. But can such a function be left to people who owe their election to governors? Would it not be better to accept the idea of a third guarantee institution? I say this with sincerity: if this is the mess we are moving towards, then I think it would be better, much better, to abolish the Senate altogether. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. One cannot make a constitutional reform having as a polar star - it is a litany of the Premier - only savings on wages. Such an objective cannot be a priority, but rather a consequence, also because we risk otherwise repeating the experience of the reform of the Provinces, which are still there and have the same costs as before. Let's face it all: if the goal is to save money, then it is necessary to rebalance the number of Members; six hundred and thirty are really too many for our country, a real scandal, so they should be reduced between the four hundred and the five hundred. I have also tabled amendments on this subject, because the only effective response against demagogy is, unfortunately, demagogy itself. As I said, I do not like this reform either because of the ways and instruments used: I did not like the atmosphere in this House and, above all, I found it inelegant, to use euphemism, the constant pressure exerted on President Grasso by the Government and its majority. A real stalking, culminated two days ago with the threats made by the Premier against the president of the Senate from the stage of a party meeting. Frankly, I was grounded. We are not talking here about the survival or not of a government - and even in such a case the forcing would be unacceptable - but even about the reform of the Constitutional Charter. Given that the form in this area is substance, everyone, but above all the Premier, we should ask ourselves whether we should not take a step back, because precedents of this kind can be a point of no return for our institutions. If this is the atmosphere in this House, i.e. on stage, in the backstage, that is, in the corridors of the Palace, the air is even worse. The newspapers describe a suk that is not very far from the truth, since new groups are born and those who until yesterday criticized the reform heavily, are now said ready to vote for it. The truth is that the interventions of constitutional reform should be discussed in an aseptic habitat, such as that of an operating room, far from conditioning of any kind; on the other hand, while on the stage we are talking about norms and principles, behind the scenes we are talking about Commission Presidencies or government fillings. All this is not only humiliating, but also grotesque: we have the feeling that this institution that we would like to reform, abolish, delegitimize and commit suicide on its own, because an institution lives not only of principles, rules and norms but, also and above all, of the dignity of its members and this is not Renzi's fault; if anything, it has in its political baggage a good deal of contempt and takes advantage of it. It is the fault of all those who sit in this House and have had a wrong approach to a task, a commitment that is among the highest to which an elected person can be called: to reform the Charter of Constitution of a country, of a people. It is a task that cannot be fulfilled by thinking of its own interest, dear D'Anna, Amoruso, Eva Longo, also because, in these fringes, the promises are often written on the water or you can take fireflies for lanterns. Those who vote in favour of the reform with the hidden intention of reaching the end of the parliamentary term may find that approval is the easiest shortcut to stop it. These are calculations that should be left out of this assembly: you cannot vote for a constitutional reform because you keep a family, dear Auricchio, nor can you vote for it for friendship or, dear Bondi, for grudges. Let's face it: our dignity as senators would be diminished, we would wrong our conscience and, above all, harm the country. [[Applause from Senator Amidei. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u110	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to prepare for this speech, I found myself reading again what I had done in the general debate in July 2014. I must say that I was not surprised to see that a large part of what I mentioned in that speech is still valid today. The critical points of then are still present and, in the meantime, the passage to the Chamber has added others. It is therefore a profound reform, which affects many articles of the Constitution. First of all, what are the objectives? They have always been clear and, I would say, agreeable: the overcoming of equal bicameralism, the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, the abolition of the CNEL and the revision of Title V (as can be seen also in the over-impression watching the videos of our sessions). The reasons for these objectives are also clear: to speed up the legislative process, to better connect the territorial institutions with the State, to reduce the costs of politics and the disputes between the State and the Regions, due to the competing competences provided for in Title V. Does this reform achieve all these objectives? I'm sure you do. Where then are the problems, the criticalities, the doubts of this text? In achieving these goals we have had - using a real euphemism - unpleasant side effects that need to be corrected. We have time to do this and it has to be done. In overcoming the bicameralism of equality, the legislative functions of the future Senate have been reduced so much that they cause doubt that it still makes sense. Without frustrating the objective of overcoming equal bicameralism, changes can be made to both Article 1 and Article 10 of the Boschi bill to increase the functions of the future Senate. In this context, my amending proposals go in the direction of adding to the Senate the equal legislative function for the laws referred to Title I and Title II of Part I of the Constitution. It concerns, within the Part One, the rights and duties of citizens, Title I on civil relations and Title II on ethical and social relations. The examination of a second Chamber of such important issues is, I believe, essential for producing balanced legislation. In fact, I do not think that the speed in parliamentary approval always gives positive results. Sometimes the examination by another branch of Parliament enriches a text, allows a more careful analysis, produces a better result. Another role to be strongly assigned to the future Senate is the link between the State, the Regions and the European Union. The current text, as amended by the House, weakens this role. These interventions are indispensable in order to reduce the criticalities of this text. We move on to the composition of the Senate, which has been modified to grasp the dual purpose of better connecting the Regions with the State through a Senate composed mainly of regional councillors and to reduce the costs of politics through the disappearance of the compensation to the senators and above all their drastic reduction in number: result fully achieved, even if doubts persist both on the dual position (senator and regional councilor) and on the presence of local administrators, such as the mayors, in the future Senate, which will still maintain important legislative functions. The mayors are elected as directors and certainly not as legislators. To be a legislator does not correspond to the mandate received by its voters; this should already be enough to avoid this double role: to have those elected to be legislators are to betray the popular mandate. In addition, the electoral body that elects a mayor does not correspond to the one that elects the parliamentarians and regional councillors as it is also composed of foreigners as far as the Community is concerned. In Italy we have so far separated everything concerning laws, legislation and administration. In the first case, the laws are called to compete only the Italians (both with the elections to choose the parliamentarians and with the laws of popular initiative and referendums) while in the second case, the administration, also extends to the foreigners of the European Union. With the mayors-senators we will have a first case in which the two areas intersect: have we carefully assessed the consequences? I'm afraid not. In fact this circumstance can represent a vulnus so that a mayor can become senator and therefore legislator. Italy signed in 1992 (ratified in 1994 and in force since 1997) the Convention on the participation of foreigners in public life at local level, signed in Strasbourg in 1992 by the Council of Europe. It is a question of extending the rights of passive and active electorate to foreigners with certain characteristics (typically the duration of residence). Italy has ratified this convention, however, limiting the passive electorate to only foreigners of the European Union and to the office of city councilor, limiting the active electorate to only foreigners of the European Union. Italy has therefore amended Part C of this Convention (which concerns the active and passive electorate) but, nevertheless, the direction is that and probably, by reciprocity, Italy will have to extend to foreign citizens of the European Union all administrative offices, including the office of mayor and vice mayor that currently the law reserves only to Italian citizens. This will collide with the possibility of a mayor to become senator as it is unimaginable that a mayor- administrator-foreign (the possibility requested by Europe) can also be at the same time senator and legislator. To introduce the constraint that mayors will become senators (i.e. legislators) represents, from a European perspective, a concrete impediment to the extension of the participation of foreigners in local political life. It is therefore contrary to the spirit of the Convention already cited and contrary to the Treaty of Lisbon, which states in Article 22 (1): Any citizen of the Union residing in a Member State of which he is not a national shall have the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in municipal elections in the Member State in which he resides, under the same conditions as nationals of that State. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, approved on 14 November 2000 by the European Parliament and proclaimed in Nice on 7 December 2000, also states in Article 40 (the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in municipal elections) that "Every citizen of the European Union shall have the right to vote and stand as a candidate in municipal elections in the Member State in which he resides, under the same conditions as nationals of that State." Finally, among the adverse reasons for the Senator mayor, it must be borne in mind that the incompatibility between the office of mayor, senator and president of the metropolitan city or wide area, that is to say, has not been introduced. We may theoretically have a person who is paid only to be mayor but will also, at the same time, be the senator and the president of the Province. If then the mayor of a small municipality is chosen whose allowance is not sufficient to be a full-time mayor, he will find himself continuing his professional activity and, simultaneously, playing the role of mayor, senator and provincial president. It would be, you know, a real Superman. I hope, therefore, that we can amend Article 2 by reviewing the composition of the Senate and removing the figure of the mayors senators. The decision to impose the indirect election of senators among regional councillors without any form of popular investiture seems almost inexplicable. I wonder: which of the objectives of the reform mentioned above is to be achieved? This question is for me unanswered. The only reason I have heard - in my humble opinion, a little weak - is that I do not want to give the future senators a full popular investiture because this would be poorly reconciled with the new Senate that will no longer be a political assembly. For the important legislative functions that remain in charge of the future Senate this motivation turns out - I repeat - weak. It is therefore necessary to intervene in order to increase the popular investiture of the senators, also considering that the alternative of the second-degree elections, as thought, will be rightly considered by our fellow citizens as a Senate decided at the table by four or five political leaders, with the aim of creating a Senate of the most faithful, or even advisors in search of personal protection that provides parliamentary immunity. Despite the possible technical difficulties associated with Article 2, I hope that we can take action on this essential point. For example, we could intervene by introducing the direct election of future senators by citizens, but by limiting the passive electorate to regional advisers only. To hear the press reports - but not, unfortunately, the debate in this House - it is towards this solution that it seems that the Government and the majority and minority of the Democratic Party are proceeding. Let me take off a pebble. Already at the first reading last year I proposed amendments to this effect: these are amendments 2.1373, 2.1374 and 2.1375 which were tabled and presented in the Chamber in July 2014. If one of these amendments had been adopted at the time, this provision would be already contained in Article 2 instead of being presented, as was the case this morning, as a great solution. Another point to consider is the weight of the Senate in future joint sessions with the Chamber of Deputies. As you know, Parliament meets in joint session to elect the President of the Republic, the five members of the Constitutional Court and the members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Currently the relationship between senators and deputies is one to two (three hundred and fifteen senators in front of six hundred and thirty MPs, excluding senators for life), while in the reform it is expected a report of about one to six (hundred senators in front of six hundred and thirty MPs). The weight of the senators will therefore certainly be less given the numbers. Little harm could be thought of but, considering the majority that will be created in the Chamber of Deputies, we can have a political force that, in fact, appoints five members of the Constitutional Court after having contributed decisively to the election of the President of the Republic. On this point too, it is therefore essential to intervene, for example by claiming that the election of the President of the Republic requires a broad agreement between all political forces and that the appointment of certain members of the Constitutional Court is the exclusive competence of the Senate. There are other points, perhaps more technical but not less important, to be changed in order to make concrete the possibility of senators to intervene in the legislative process. For example, the deadline of only ten days from the approval of the House of a legal text within which the Senate may request to amend it is too tight. Without fomenting legislative delays in contrast with the spirit of the reform, we could come to the most reasonable thirty-day forecast. Other points - or, better, ideas - of improvement appear here and there in the text and should not be underestimated. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about the importance of this vote and the spirit that must inspire us all. I believe that no party discipline, no conditioning, no pressure should be accepted by us when deciding on the votes we are required to give. This is a vast and profound revision of our Constitution, which, if approved, will have its effects well beyond the contingent period we are experiencing. It is a great responsibility that falls on our shoulders and the only lighthouse for us must be only the merit of the measure, nothing else. The text that will be produced is what we need to evaluate and judge. That's all, I repeat, that's all. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u112	He's enlisted to speak Senator Piccoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the constitutional revision undertaken has led - in the succession of parliamentary readings - as well as to overcoming the bicameralism of equality, to the design of a new division of legislative competences between the State and the Regions. There is no doubt that the two profiles - as has emerged during the in-depth debate in both branches of Parliament - are closely related, also bearing in mind that maintaining the balance between state unity and territorial diversity, between centre and periphery, require, from time to time, continuous adjustments according to a path that guarantees, at the same time, the needs of the State and the Regions. However, I cannot fail to point out that, especially after the changes made by the House, there are contradictions and very negative aspects in the text. The need to eliminate the confusion of the division of legislative powers between the State and the Regions, contained in Title V of the Constitution, was one of the main objectives of this reform. At a careful reading, however, I think I can say that the "transfer" of matters, some in the exclusive competence of the State and others in the exclusive competence of the Regions, has been done in a confused, contradictory way. The first concern raised by the reading of the new Article 117 is that of the multiplicity and variety of terms used to indicate the legislative competences exclusively state and those referring to regional power: "fundamental principles," "coordination rules," "general principles," "general ordinal profiles"; vague and generic terms, inconsistent with each other, which will create even more conflicts of competence than they will manage to resolve. The initial objective, which can be shared, of a profound simplification of the division of competences between the State and the Region in the end has failed. To introduce in the exclusive legislative power of the State the novelty of the "general and common provisions" and to allow the law of the State, on proposal of the Government, to intervene in matters not reserved to the exclusive legislation means to create even more interpretative doubts on the boundaries of the legislative competences, nullifying the plan of simplification of the division of competences between State and Regions. This regulatory disorder is the inevitable consequence of a hasty and imprudent way of proceeding. For example, more serious consideration seems to be given to the fact that certain subjects and services for citizenship have characteristics that can only be carried out effectively by the regional entity. In fact, a virtuous Region agency can and must deal with transport, social services, health and agriculture. The undeniable diversity of quality in the services rendered to citizens between the different Italian Regions, essentially between North and South, cannot lead to the exclusion of the Region as such of these prerogatives. On the contrary, it should be a challenge for the whole Republic so that the virtuous experiences are spread and the good practices adopted throughout the Italian territory. Are we really sure, ladies and gentlemen, that with the institutional set-up resulting from this reform, will competing competences finally be an old memory? To me it seems that the main characteristic of the new Senate, the representation of territorial institutions, the backwardness of its competences and the disorganic formulation of the new distribution of legislative competences inevitably lead to further inconsistencies and normative illogicality. Then there is another element to be taken into account. The emptying of the powers of the Senate resulting from the changes made by the Chamber of Deputies to Articles 1 and 10 (the 55 and 70 of the Constitution respectively) draws a weak Senate, never autonomous from the Chamber: a secondary Chamber. This element further aggravates the picture, because the spirit with which this reform has been conceived, and on which there is almost total agreement, is that the Senate must represent the authorities of the territories and their control, in some matters, over the work of the State. But if the Senate itself sees this indispensable function deeply weakened, the combined arrangement is a serious limitation of regional functions, either directly, through the changes to Article 117, or indirectly, through, precisely, the irrelevance of the Senate that should represent them. Indeed, doubts in this regard have been raised during the hearings of various constitutionalists. The draft law also provides for a safeguard or supremacy clause, where the State can intervene by law (on a proposal from the Government) also in regional matters, to protect values attributable to unity or national interest. The introduction of the safeguard or supremacy clause, aimed at guarding the national interest, is, in my view, more likely to penalise the legislative competence of the regions. Most of the necessary unitary needs are already guaranteed by the allocation to the State of the exclusive subjects of Article 117, and this clause would also leave the choice of when and how to intervene only and exclusively in the hands of the Government, causing a predictable centralization towards the State of also the competences of the Regions, thus reducing their legislative power, frustrating the objective of simplification and eliminating the boundaries of the division of the different competences. The remodulation of the functions between State and Regions needed to revisit Article 117 by redefining the division of competences so as to reduce, if not eliminate as far as possible, interpretative doubts, contradictions between norms, while helping to give greater expression, representation and capacity to respond to those that are local needs. In summary, we are faced with a strong compression of territorial autonomy on the one hand, through the reduction of competences and, on the other hand, through the imposition of a supremacy clause, in the direction of a drained Senate of its powers for the benefit of a system clearly centralized of the constitutional order, in which the Government would continue to play a role of absolute primacy. The idea that there is an absolute first state is, in my opinion, a serious contradiction of the principle of subsidiarity that the Constitution itself protects. Then there is another aspect that raises many doubts. I refer to the amendment introduced at first reading in the Chamber of Deputies concerning the provision contained in Article 39 that for the regions with special autonomy and the autonomous provinces of Trento and Bolzano the changes to Title V provided for in this text will apply only after the revision of the respective Statutes. To introduce this forecast confirms once again that the Government forgets all those territories that today suffer the unequal treatment generated by the recognition of certain forms of autonomy to specific Regions. In fact, if it is certainly acceptable that, in Article 31 of this Constitutional Review Law, we are concerned to remove the economic and social imbalances, in order to promote economic development, cohesion and social solidarity, to provide, with paragraph 12 to Article 39, that the statutory adjustment takes place on the basis of agreements with the Regions with Special Statute and with the Autonomous Provinces means to grant, once again, the possibility to strengthen the territorial autonomy, enhancing the aspects of substantial differentiation, that is, the legislative and fiscal capacity of each Region. This expresses yet another dramatic indifference towards those citizens and territories, contiguous to these Regions with special status, suffering from unequal treatment and opportunity. Let me say that the introduction of this provision is logical, allowing, in fact, the regions with special status - and we understand the reason - and the Autonomous Provinces to negotiate in the second place additional forms of relief. In this way, the safeguard or supremacy clause - which Article 120 of the Constitution refers to as applicable in the Regions with special autonomy - is conditional, as far as its exercise is concerned, on what will subsequently be decided in the revision of the legal sources presiding over the same special autonomy. This is an indicator of a weak government, unable to resolve economic and social inequalities. The process of constitutional reform was a good opportunity to give a response to those territories, already disadvantaged by their economic, social and physical characteristics, mostly contiguous with territories that enjoy particular and beneficial forms of autonomy that aggravate an already complex situation. Who will allow this opportunity to be lost in nothing will have to assume the responsibility to explain to those territories and to all citizens the sense of legitimizing a profound difference in performance and opportunities - which is called "competitive advantage" - between different areas of the national territory and, at the same time, of banning the principles of equality and guarantee instrumentally. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u114	Senator Cotti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u115	President, a computer flaw has wiped out from my speech all the words that do not begin with the letter "c" as "Constitution", so my speech will present some grammatical and syntax errors, but it is equally well understood. Moreover, making some grammatical and syntax errors is not prohibited by the Rules of Procedure of this House, as one of our famous colleagues teaches us. So, Mr President, please do not interrupt me if my Italian is not perfect, partly because it is a short speech, which will last less than five minutes, effective only if not interrupted. Dear colleagues, to change the Constitution like this, it conflicts with civil coexistence. Calderoli, delivering five thousand corrections, created clamor, so Capigroup contemplated cancellation comparison with Commission members. Deleted five thousand corrections, we asked for the Commission to be convened, however censored. Critics call for a Constitutional Charter allowing candidates to be selected with citizen involvement. Coalition that commands confirmation paragraph, which allows this chamber composition with one hundred co-opted advisors! What the hell would that change with this counter-reform? Room with one hundred components would allow reduced costs, confirming Commissions, collaborators, building management... To delete this House completely, as my colleague Mr Corradino asked, would allow certain, credible costs to fall. With courageous colleagues, Castaldi (group leader), Crimes, Cappelletti, Catalfo, Cioffi, we advocate changes that allow substantial cost reduction, such as contraction of Chambers components, including compensation. We share CNEL cancellation; we contest room competence confusion, with complete control centralization. What will we call members Rooms with constitutional corrections? Comrades? Comrades critics (Casson, Chiti, Cirinna...), courage! Trash compromises, contest coercions! This constitutional counter-reform, with curious conjectures, which include trading colleagues, will achieve consensus with fifty cents components; this will lead to confirmation with citizenship consultation. I believe that this constitutional change will fall. Coalition that commands will yield; Colle will see crises, will close Rooms. This House will change its composition with "Consultellum," which will punish coalition that commands, will erase dark consorteries, including Caimano, communists, corvine shirts, corrupt combriccole, jailed; it will hunt clan that compose this House. How to conclude? My condolences! [[Laughter. Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u116	He is registered to speak Senator D'Ambriosio Lettieri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u117	(16 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we must be content to hand over our speeches to the House. The climate, which has been registered for several months on this subject, becomes the ruthless mirror of the times, in which politics shows all its frailties and, let me say - something really demeaning and humiliating - shows all its inadequacy. That is why the Italian people are offended by the institutions that should be democratic. However, as is evident from the facts that happen, there is little left of democracy; perhaps because politics no longer recognizes its role, its nobility and therefore, not recognizing it, cannot proclaim it and above all cannot live it in the declination of its obligations and duties. In our speeches we have repeatedly referred, in my opinion, also with purposes that have gradually been freed from rhetoric, from the propositive content, from the deep depth of culture, if you want also of emotional tension, which the constituent fathers have left in parliamentary writings. I do not think that we will be able to live by inheritance anymore and above all we must be aware that in turn the legacy we leave to those who come after us is truly regrettable from all points of view, especially because it is made up of infictions, a theater where jugglers, funambols and puppeteers turn from time to time trying to orient the fate of this martyred democracy towards interests contrary to democracy itself. If you will allow me, I quote one of all that seems interesting even in paradigmatic terms. I refer to Article 1 of the Constitution, which reads: "Sovereignty belongs to the people." What a joke! That article arose from the very hard and long anti-fascist struggle, the victorious war of liberation, the transformation of the State into the Democratic Republic by a popular referendum and the vote of a constituent Assembly that was elected by the people. We arrive here without a phase that can be considered truly constituent; more, we arrive with a series of vices that inexorably stain the entire path, the entire legislative process: the quota of the times (because we must be quick and fast), the arrival in the Chamber without a mandate to the rapporteur, the undue pressure that is being carried out on the President of the Senate by the Government, by the Premier. I find it really embarrassing to read the newspapers with what is told and without denial: I believe that it is a profound wound to the architecture of the State - or to what remains of it - that we would have the duty to preserve, to protect with the commitment to modernization that leads us to overcome, as we all would like, equal bicameralism. Again, I will be allowed by the friends of the Democratic Party to make another remark, being also supported and supported by the words acute, severe, pronounced with great punctuality in the last legislature by the then Parent Company of the PD, Senator Finocchiaro, today authoritative President of the Commission and rapporteur, of which I greatly appreciated the commitment and of which I also noticed some suffered and embarrassed silence. I refer to the words spoken in the last legislature by Senator Finocchiaro when, by censoring the working methods used to achieve a constitutional reform that you (and I with you today) demanded (I rightly say) was more widely shared, he announced the exit from the PD Senators' Chamber. We will not leave the Chamber; we will remain here to express our dismay, our regret, our disappointment, but also to bear witness once again to our tenacity, our love for what remains of our democracy and our strong drive to recover what can be recovered. It was not really upbuilding - you will allow me - this sort of parliamentaryisation of the PD congress in the Senate Chamber. While we were debating in this House, the PD's congressional activities were taking place, the amendments were presented and the idea of a voracious kangaroo was already being extended - another point of obvious criticality - which should have countered, as it would have countered, the obstructive effect of the amendments, which - I would like to remind you also for the benefit of the Report - the political forces had undertaken to withdraw to a large extent, leaving only those amendments which would have been useful for a more essential debate, reduced to the essential, more linked to the points of greatest criticality. These critical points are not only those concerning the elective Senate and the recovery of the principle of Article 1 of the Constitution. We want an elective Senate. At a time of cooling down the relationship between the elector and the elector, we do not need to expel the citizen from the decision-making processes and we do not need second-level elections, but we need logics of involvement and enlargement of the principles and conditions of popular participation for the definition of the democratic life of the country. But it is not only that relating to the elective Senate that has passionate about the political debate and that has perhaps been more intercepted by the media system. Here is a serious problem concerning the division of competences. And here it stretches, like a shadow representing a warning, the thought of illustrious constitutionalists. Undoubtedly, the uncertain boundaries between state and regional competences remain with us all. The conflict between the definitions "territorial planning" (regional function) and "government of the territory" (state function) represents a point of vulnerability which, if it is not clarified, will still lead to a moment of great crisis and congestion of the work of the judges of the laws, just as it was in 2001 the absolute inadequacy of the texts modified relative to the division of competences. And again, the ambiguity of the general and common provisions will leave a trail that will weigh like a boulder on the life of the country and on the ability to attract investments. I am also thinking of the imbalance between the numerical weight and powers of the Chamber and the Senate, the allocation of legislative powers to regional councillors, the appointments that the constituents took care to hand over to a system of weights and counterweights that guaranteed democracy: I am referring to the election of the President of the Republic, the constitutional judges and the members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I shall begin with the conclusion, Madam President. We do not lose tenacity and hope. We have tabled amendments relating to the tax ceiling, stated in a precise and precise manner in the Constitution, in order to reconcile the relationship between the taxpayer citizen and the State. Other amendments concern the principle of infrastructural equalization, in relation to which a deep tear between different geographical areas of the country is still determined today. Finally, there is the need to clearly review the changes to Title V in order to correct certain errors, which may represent a violent vulnus, especially if they relate, for example, to health issues, in respect of which the different competence between the State and the Regions must find a point of harmonization that guarantees the permanence of a national health service marked by the extraordinary value of universality. This is the commitment that we will support and hope that the resistance in a principle of the sages may belong to the path of the Government of these last hours and that the necessary attention will be given to our commitment, but also the necessary respect for the institutions of the State and the love we have for our country. [[Applause from the CoR Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u119	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u120	Madam President, although this House is empty, I would like to draw the attention of the few Members who are sitting here with us and who are participating in what should be a debate and a particularly important moment of discussion, since the possibility of making the transition provided for in our Constitution has been removed from the Commission responsible. This is a very important moment, at which I would like to invite everyone to stop. We live in a hectic age in which this frenzy, this cosmic anxiety - as Beppe Grillo called it in one of his most beautiful intervals - that takes us all, forces us to run in a kind of hamster wheel and does not stop us. Let us stop then for a moment and ask ourselves what we are doing. Are we really serving our country? Are we really maintaining faith and satisfying the principle of our mandate as spokesperson for citizens? Are we really convinced at this time to do what the citizens sent us to do here in February 2013? I don't think so. When we go out on the streets, when I return to my popular and multi-ethnic neighborhood, I don't hear about the Constitution. When I see the huge mass of poor people wandering through our streets, I don't see her looking for constitutional reform, but for happiness. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] When I see the devastated environment, when I see Parliament taking measures that do not protect the environment, but that make this land a land of conquest, I believe that is not what the citizens have sent us here to do. When I see the inertia of politics that speculates on narrative, that wants the world populated by different people, when colossal interests are created against this dangerous narrative, against this racist propaganda and I see the inertia of the Government, not only in internal politics, but also in international tables, I think of citizens and I think that at that moment we are not carrying out our mandate, but that we are betraying it. When I see the deprecated school, when I see the plundered health care, when I see that there is no interest in the right to food, in the right to health, in the right to public water, when I see that the right to knowledge is trampled on, when I see that there is no fight against corruption, tax evasion and we do not fight to finally bring to this country the culture of legality, respect for neighbour and critical thinking, I believe that, as at this moment, we are betraying the mandate that our citizens have given us. We here are wasting time like who, having no solutions, not knowing what to do, taken from despair, wandering like a fly in a glass and wasting his time talking about a reform I do not say useless, but not necessary at this moment. My colleagues have already shown a great deal that it is not necessary for many reasons: because it is a reform that will not speed up parliamentary times and it will not bring real savings in the costs of politics. Well, when I see ourselves bent on looking at our navel and thinking about our petty interests, the interests of an armchair, that power and that caste that doesn't want to be dull, then I think we're all doing this country a bad service. But what does this mean to render a bad service to this country? It means first of all rendering a bad service to the people we love, because the country is not made of anonymous citizens, but of friends, of children, of brothers, of wives, of husbands, of neighbors next door: it is not made of numbers and it is not made of that precariousness with which we have helped bury him. One day we'll deal not with each other, inside this perverse video game in which we have completely lost contact with external reality, which is not the reality of these devilish games of power: I will be elected, you will not be re-elected; you what percentage you take; you that cow how much you paid for it to the suk. Last week this was not a Parliament, but a souk where cows were bought. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Cows to milk for one vote, stupid cows...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u121	I would ask you to pay attention to language, especially with regard to references to women.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u122	Montevecchi (M5S). The cow is a sacred animal in India. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Not in Italy. SANTANGELO (M5S). But cow is. MONTEVECCHI (M5S). Always cow is. But there was no offensive reference: it is an expression. If you prefer, we can talk about the camel market, so it doesn't matter and doesn't change the meaning of the speech. I'd like all of us to stop and reflect today. We have a weekend of time to reflect on the true sense of what we're doing, to understand if what we're doing is really what they're asking us for or if it responds to logics that no longer have any value outside of here. Today it is of extreme value for people to live a life without more precariousness: that precariousness that no longer makes us think about the future, that takes away our perspectives, that dissuades us, frustrates us, that drives young people to get out of this country; that precariousness of knowledge of which we are content today. The OECD tells us, we have a serious problem in this country: we have 70% of the population affected by illiteracy on the way back. Do you understand what that means? This is serious. We should fight these things, we should be concerned to evolve this country and not to upset a Constitutional Charter that was written by people who knew well what they wanted, who well knew what the goal was, that is not to return in a dark period; to advance and assure this country of democracy, guarantee of rights. And we're gonna flip it today or we're gonna flip it. I am restless because, if behind this reform there were a definite plan, not acceptable but defined, it would be one thing; but behind this reform there is chaos. There's no order, there's chaos. We all know what lies behind chaos: we all know - and history teaches us this - how institutional chaos has been used. I want, then, to urge the citizens because this battle will not end in the classrooms of this Parliament. If our Premier, for once in this parliamentary term, keeps his word, the citizens will be called to speak in a referendum. I would therefore like to end this speech by appealing to the citizens. Inquire, go and review the speeches that have followed in this House, go and inform, citizens, get to that informed referendum and do not stop to watch television, to listen to the news or to read the major newspapers, because there you will not find the whole truth: there you will find a piece of truth or perhaps a truth packed. Go look for the information, get an opinion and, when you go to vote in this referendum, remember the words of the former President of Uruguay, Pepe Mujica, who said: Don't let yourself steal life, don't let it escape, live it with as much intensity as possible, because life doesn't return. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is a battle of citizenship, this is a fundamental battle and all of you, citizens who are listening to us, are not called out, but you are called to participate and, if you can, to put the corrective to the disturbing horror that will come out of these classrooms. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u123	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tocci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u124	Madam President, when constitutional law historians study this revision they will notice an anomaly that we cannot or do not want to see. With the votes of a majority prize spoiled by illegitimacy, almost the entire second part of the Constitution is rewritten. The Court recommended that the electoral law be approved immediately in order to vote as soon as possible, it did not ask to rewrite the Charter. The political class does this just to avoid elections. I know I say something that sounds unpleasant and I almost apologize. It seems that there is, almost unknowingly, an agreement not to talk about it, which says a lot about the alienation of this debate. One changes the form of government of the country, without announcing it, without discussing it as such and without even deliberated it explicitly. It establishes the absolute premiere, as he called it, with trembling of jurist, Leopoldo Elia. He called it "absolute" not because it was an authoritarian turning point - as we say today - but because it lacked counterweights, that is, those compensatory mechanisms that are able to transform every power into democracy. Here the fate of the country is entrusted to the arbitrariness of a minority that becomes a majority for artificial reinforcements and not for the consents of the citizens. A majority government is created in a minority democracy, marked by an electoral disaffection that reaches half the population. A leader who collects less than a third of the consensus conquers the bench, is able to govern alone - and so far you can accept - but can also modify the fundamental rules with a biased spirit, without being forced to discuss them with others. For all this, the Premier has an obedient majority of MPs who have personally chosen to be a capitalist. On the contrary, he receives a direct investiture, albeit a minority, in the ballot. This creates an imbalance of legitimacy between the Premier and the Assembly, which translates into supremacy of the executive power over the legislative and indirectly also over the judicial order. The three fundamental powers of a democracy are definitely out of balance. The main imbalance is in the number of MPs, which actually creates a monocameralism: nothing bad, in principle, proposed it with ardor my dear teacher, President Pietro Ingrao, as well as many others in the First Republic, but none of them would ever accept it with a hyper-majoritarian law. However, eliminating the numerical imbalance would be easy: in no European country do we get to six hundred and threey MPs and the government's initial proposal placed the reduction of parliamentarians as priorities. Why then do we not reduce the number of Members? Why does everything change, except the number of members of the Chamber? This question has been unanswered for more than a year. I would like to address the Minister, Mr Boschi, who I hope will at least have the courtesy in replying tomorrow to give this House a serious and convincing explanation on this point. The result is a Senate without functions and without authority: but then it is better to eliminate it completely. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] There is nothing worse than an Assembly without powers, with the risk that it will get them indirectly, with association with the Government, further degrading the transparency and efficiency of the system. I do not deny the proportional elective Senate, I remain convinced that it was a good proposal the "Senate of Warranty," as we have called it, for the powers and for the direct electoral mandate, but I do not fall in love with the proposals. In theory, the guarantee can also be obtained in a single Chamber, perhaps elected with the single colleges, using qualified votes higher than the majority prize in the legislation of fundamental rights. It is the general balance, not the single proposal, not even the one I dear to the elective Senate. Constitutional legislation is nothing but system production. The quality of a constitutional law is measured by the system effect and here the measure is negative, in all respects. Not even the mediation that overlooks the almost election of senators - a positive step forward, which I appreciate - is able to modify the plant nor reduces the imbalance of the absolute premierate and cancels my personal negative assessment. The opportunity for the reform of bicameralism has been missed, telling a false story to the public. It is not true that there is a problem of speed, on the contrary, the opposite is true: it is too easy to make laws; they approve in a bulimic way, approving a law before the previous one has the time to be applied. Citizens, administrations and businesses are well aware of this and are now flooded with legislation. The new bicameralism should increase quality and not speed, to produce few organic laws, short and readable even by citizens. To this task of high legislation the new Senate had to go, to cure the great codes, then leaving to the House to implement the program of government within a solid and effective framework. It couldn't even be discussed, because there's the Federal Senate fetish. It was a great idea, of course, of Olive and many others: many of us, including myself, have spent the best youth energies on a Federal Republic, but this design has turned out to be disastrous. The regions today are at the lowest point of credibility, as can be seen from participation in the vote. A review should have been made here, in Parliament, of this twenty-year debate, but the government did so alone, taking away the power of the Regions and compensating the political class with the plume in the Senate. Instead, the number of regions should be reduced: I have tabled an amendment on this, because about ten macro-regions could find a profitable relationship with the state and make the country more compact in international competition. Last year I, along with others, expressed my uneasiness by not taking part in the vote. Hoping that the next steps could be improved: the balance, in my opinion, has worsened. The progress on the elective Senate is frustrated by the approval of Italicum and the refusal to reduce the number of Members. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] In the second resolution we are called upon to make a final assessment. That is why my vote will be against, because there is no constitutional constraint on the part of the party. [[Applause from Senator Minzolini.]] I already hear the chorus: but then you want to drop the government? It's a stupid question, reading all the papers. [[Senator Council's comments. Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]] It is an amazing reversal between cause and effect. It is unheard of that the Government puts a kind of confidence in political leadership in the change of the Constitution. It never happened in the history of the Republic. That today it is considered normal, that we take it almost for granted, that those who withdraw from the index are the confirmation that the Italian public debate is sick; that already on the agenda of discussion, even before in the solutions, there is a dangerous distortion of principles and values. An artificial constitutional emergency has been built to give political legitimacy to a government without direct electoral mandate. It's yet another Italian anomaly. In a normal country, the government does not deal with the Constitution. In a normal country the Executive governs according to a program presented to voters. You can derogate from these simple rules in extraordinary situations and for a short time; from us the exceptional state will last for almost all this decade. You can't just blame the last ones who came. For twenty years the Constitution has been changed for political purposes: first the CentroSinistra with Title V, then Berlusconi in 2005, Fini with the ius sanguinis of voting abroad, Tremonti's attempts on Article 41. All constitutional reforms failed, because wrong was the method. But already in the 1980s, when the parties lost the country's power of government, they took the habit of saying that it was not their fault, but the Constitution. In order not to face the crisis of politics they have opened a crisis of the institutions; they have begun to browse the atlas of the French, English, American, Spanish and German models. But institutional perfectism is a symptom of the illness of politics; healthy Constitutions are imperfect because they are produced by history. The American decision-making model is crazy; it is devoid of the decree-law, yet it ruled an empire. The imperfections are compensated by the political will, which is like the courage of Don Abbondio: those who do not have it cannot give it. For thirty years the Italian political class, instead of ruling the country, has consoled itself with the teddy bear of institutional reforms. When President Renzi boasts of doing things scheduled for twenty years, he does not realize that he speaks as a conservative. It is the paradox of the scrapers who apply the agenda of the scrapers; they repeat, that is, the most serious mistake: to use the constitutional revision for contingent political purposes. The Charter would be to be changed in many things; I am not among those who make it an altar; but humility is required. Changing the Constitution means serving it, not using it. My generation has not been up to the task. The sad news is that not even the generation after us seems capable of doing so. Perhaps tomorrow's reformers still need to be born to improve their legacy masterpiece. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S, LN-Aut, CoR and Misto-SEL and the Senators Mineo and Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u125	I address the greeting of the Assembly to the students and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Nazareno Strampelli" in Castelraimondo, in the province of Macerata. Welcome and welcome to the Senate! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u126	Senator Petrocelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u127	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my position on this measure is clear; it is the same as that which last year, as the Parent Company of the 5 Star Movement in August, I expressed on behalf of my Group and the citizens whom I represent, expressing a general consideration of a measure which in essence has not changed much, or indeed very little. I would therefore not like to take up speeches already made then or comments made by many of my fellow Members now. I would like to focus on what struck me in this long summer; on a theater of politics that has been repeated for months and months. Among the various topics, some have been impressed in particular: in this theater of positions, one is certainly this measure, that is the reform of the Constitution and the Senate; the other is what has concerned and continues to concern the events of a country certainly very close to us, namely Greece. What happened during this summer (governed little by those who should govern both countries, but in essence governed by supranational authorities and the political and financial institutions of the European Union) showed an Italian Prime Minister, Renzi, who revealed himself as a proponent of the Greek Prime Minister Tsipras. This is even recognized today by former Minister Varoufakis, who confirmed that his former party, Syriza, is turning into the new Pasok or - better - the PD version in Greece. What happened in this long summer full of political or pseudo-political tormentions? Tsipras wanted a strong mandate, so he resigned and took his country back to the election, which he won. Here in Italy Renzi, looking for a strong mandate, what does he do? It opens the cow market. Excuse me, Madam President, but that is the term. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I understand, but in this House we could avoid that. Thank you. PETROCELLI (M5S). What are you doing right now? In the Senate, for example, it blocks the renewal of the Presidency Offices, which I have already asked President Grasso several times myself. The same market allows us to have a President and two Vice Presidents of the Democratic Party today in the Senate since Senator Lanzillotta came home as a prodigal son. I believe that this has completed the similarity that I wanted to underline between what happened in Italy and what happened in Greece, whose Premier is slowly transforming into my big fat Matteo Renzi Greco. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Madam President, this measure has seen several readings, all of which are linked to a common thread. I would like to point out one, which is new, by giving a psychoanalytic reading of the measure. This legislature - the seventeenth - certainly has an unexpected and revolutionary feature compared to the previous ones: I refer to the presence of the 5 Star Movement. Everyone - political parties, media, lobbying, strong powers - reacted to his break-in into the institutions as if it were to be mourned. The elaboration of mourning in this Parliament and in the country, especially in those who hold the reins of information and real power, has developed according to five phases that are precisely those that describe psychoanalysis. The first is that of denial or refusal; then that of anger; to follow that of the plea; then depression and, finally, acceptance of the mourning itself. The mourning, arrived after the presence of the 5 Star Movement in the institutions, consists in the awareness that there is an end in this Parliament and, probably, in the country, understood as it once meant: the end of the system of party domination, first of all, and the end of what I consider to be the real arranged combination that could lead - indeed, it is leading - the country to ruin. I am not referring to what is normally mentioned in this House, but to the combined arrangement of a system of power that for decades imposed and controlled everything and everyone and the action of the media, which have been and continue to be constantly at the service of the system of power. This is indeed a dangerous combination for democracy and this is what has produced, above all, the second phase of the elaboration of mourning, the stage of anger, to which all have adapted, especially with the new political force entered into the institutions: the 5 Star Movement, precisely. I begin to conclude by stressing another important step for me. In the process of mourning, here in this House and in the political groups, it is above all the majority groups, and above all here in the Senate, that have taken forward, also with respect to the President of the Council Renzi and the Government that he leads. Above all, the Group of the Democratic Party in the Senate and the Group of Popular Alliance, both with their spearheads, President Zanda, Senator Finocchiaro and Senator Quagliariello, have even reached the fifth stage of mourning, that of passive acceptance. Let me say, however, that the champions of the mourning process are the senators of the Dem minority, the real protagonists of the summer scene, the real protagonists of the theater that has developed and which I had no doubt about how it would end, and how we will see that it will end. Those of the Dem minority are well within the fifth stage of the mourning process, the passive acceptance phase. Now, Madam President, I have no idea of any acceptance at all, nor of any distinctive trait that can unite me with those who have promised fire and flames throughout the summer and will instead produce a small birth, if not something like that, is my distinctive trait, the one that will lead me to vote against this measure a year away from last year, when I did it as the Leader of the 5 Star Movement, which I am proud of. This yes, with pride, characterizes me as a minority exponent, probably of the only truly combative minority of this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u128	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u129	Madam President, to present the choice of reforming the institutions and the second part of the Constitution as a requirement of a party, of the Democratic Party or of the majority, dictated by obscure reasons or worse by an irresistible authoritarian vocation, means falsifying reality. I have heard in this noble and important discussion references to the history of our country and to the events that marked the work of the Constituent. But in the face of a careful and living memory for what happened seventy years ago, rightly attentive and alive, I notice a difficulty in remembering what happened only two and a half years ago. After an electoral result that had not produced a clear majority of government, and above all in the face of the obvious crisis of relationship between citizens and politics, the growing distrust in the institutions, I recall that, in the face of the sharpening of a real crisis of our democracy, Parliament, or at least its vast majority, has considered to make this legislature a legislature dedicated to reforming the institutions to rebuild the relationship between citizens and democracy. We are doing what President Napolitano called us to after his re-election and to whom President Mattarella called us in his inauguration speech. We are doing what all political forces declare necessary, what so many majorities have tried unnecessarily in the past. This is why we are having this debate, knowing that it is not enough, that we need to change politics and parties in order to rebuild the relationship of trust with the citizens, and we are also doing this, but above all we need to put the institutions in a position to give answers to the citizens, we need to modernise the institutions, because look, if the pact between citizens and the state that is in crisis today is broken, if the State appears to the citizens as an obstacle and not as a resource, we risk that the words that I have heard here repeatedly mention with passion, such as democracy and freedom, lose their sense. Precisely in the choice made two years ago to make this legislature a constituent legislature is the reason why it is not strange, let alone illegitimate the intervention of the government. On the other hand, here too, looking at the facts, in the face of 134 amendments to the text approved in the previous two readings, the accusations of those who accuse Government and majority of closure and arrogance are obviously instrumental. We have tried and are trying to achieve a broad consensus and this text, which was approved by a larger majority than the Government at the last reading, demonstrates this. The same choice to ask citizens to speak in the referendum should reassure those who are presenting this reform as an undemocratic coup d'état. Much has been said, but I think it would be useful to come back to a few points in the debate. There has been a discussion in which many have spoken of an authoritarian turning point, of a system that puts everything in the hands of the Premier. That is not the case. This reform does not put a hand in the form of a government. This is the difference from the 2005 reform. Here there is no enlargement of the powers of the President of the Council and I find it amazing that Forza Italia and Lega continue to insist on this point, hiding the fact that their reform of 2005, which was not at all the same as what we are discussing, strengthened the powers of the Premier, until it gave him the power to dissolve the Chambers and to command and no longer coordinate the Ministers. So, no authoritarian breakthrough, no high and strong Premier. But, it is said, the will to put only one man in command and the undemocratic turn is that with Italicum 60% of the Members will be appointed, forgetting that the issue is another, that over two thirds of the Members of the majority, whatever it may be, will be elected with preference and chosen by the citizens. There is no reason to shout at the attack on democracy, unless it is considered undemocratic that in a country there is the possibility for a majority to exist and govern, to give continuity to government action. Then I would advise you to avoid this torment that we want to prevent voters from voting, I say that for those who use it. The citizens in this country vote for the municipalities, the regions, the Parliament and I could add the circumscription councils and the European Parliament. This argument is not really credible. I believe that in the next few days we will be able to further improve the balance between powers and the system of guarantees, but on this I want to make an observation perhaps against the current with respect to many interventions. The Senate of the self-governments that we are building will be stronger, will weigh more, not only and not so much because its members will be chosen by the citizens, but especially because its members will be representatives of the territorial institutions, will have the strength of the regional institutions and the municipalities behind them throughout their mandate. This will give weight and function to the Senate. Look, beyond the folklore of the 82 million amendments, beyond the imaginative behindological reconstructions that we heard yesterday and today, in these months we are having an important debate, we are doing it here and in the country, certainly also in the parties. I say that I am proud to be in a party that discusses; a normal party that does what every party should do: if we discuss it is not a permanent congress. You are right: it is not an internal matter of PD, but precisely for this reason we debate and compare ourselves, we are in a plural party that discusses and decides looking at the interest of the country, we take care of this, do it yourself. See if dissent is not expressed by divisions, as is the case with Forza Italia, or is not conculcated with expulsions. Try, look for solutions and synthesis as we do. This does not mean that there are parliamentarians blackmailed and vexed, spineless, courtiers, we do not need your solidarity. There are parliamentarians who are in a party and freely share a reform project for the country and discuss and seek synthesis when there are differences. To insult those who do not agree with you, to accuse those who are mostly attached to the chair or courtiers, non-free persons, is the path of those who have no arguments and prefer to delegitimize the opponent rather than discuss the matter. You explained to us that we were servants and courtiers when we voted for the jobs act or other measures, each time we supported the reforms of this government. In reality we have worked for the country, not for ourselves, and the data of these months on the economy and the job [[Comments from the M5S Group]] , turn it the way you want it, show it: 250,000 more jobs, growth data, the recovery of domestic consumption and exports are data that we should all be pleased with - and some people are sorry - and that they are also a little fruit of our work. There's no discussion here between free men against rabbits. Shame on the man who said that! CROSIUM (LN-Aut). "Rabbit" is what I said! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, everyone has had the opportunity to intervene. Please, Senator Mirabelli. MIRABELLI (PD). I don't know any rabbits here, but if anyone thinks that free men are the ones who use their fears to profit from the intolerance and suffering of others, as the League is doing. [[Comments of the Senator Council]] or that they think that freedom means being able to launch any insult, even in a sacred Chamber like this... TAVERNA (M5S). Sacred? MIRABELLI (PD). ...without remorse or unload the problems always on the weakest, I inform you that those who do this confuse freedom with selfishness and irresponsibility. [[Senator Council's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u130	Senator, please, that's enough! Everyone in this House is free to express their views, as everyone has done.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u131	MIRABELLI (PD). Look, the disaffection of citizens is not the consequence of this reform, but of a policy and institutions perceived as distant, which work badly. It is right to defend the principles for which partisans and anti-fascists have fought, but those principles are defended and re-launched if they change. Anyone who wants to keep things the way they are doesn't give democracy a gift. Those who, in order to make partisan calculations, want to lower the reform know that it hurts the country and democracy. Those who think they are fighting against reforms, referring to the origins of our democracy, to the Resistance, are wrong. It is the opposite: reforms are needed to prevent the dramatic weariness of our coexistence, the weariness of the relationship between institutions and citizens, the crisis of our democracy. I understand that the 5 Star Movement needs this democratic crisis and institutions to continue... CIOFFI (M5S). But it's you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please. There are also other surgeries that irritate you. (Senator Santangelo touches his temple with his index finger.) Senator, don't do that. MIRABELLI (PD). ...in order to feed one's populism with the crisis of credibility of the institutions and the inability to reform the political system. Instead, this is our responsibility and for us it is also our electoral mandate, which was in the program "Italy Good Common". That is the reason, and that is all, why this reform is a priority for us. Of course, there are concrete problems that already live Italian that we have to face... COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Is that okay? MIRABELLI (PD). ...that we must resolve, but if we do not strengthen our institutions and our democracy will be more difficult for anyone solve them. This is the mission of this legislature and if - as we will do - we complete this reform, we will have done what we have assumed, the responsibility to do for the country and for our democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the M5S and LN-Aut Groups]] CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I am glad that you appreciate the debate that is taking place in this House in this way. I invite everyone to remain calm and listen to the opinions of others, even when they are different from their own, as seems normal to me, without being disturbed. Montevecchi (M5S). Tell Renzi! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u132	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to anticipate the conclusions that I shall come to at the end of my speech: I prefer the abolition of the Senate tout court rather than this reform, which does nothing but empty it of powers and functions. Mine is not a closing position towards reforms, on the contrary: I voted in favour of this draft constitutional law at the first passage in the Senate, following the indications of my Group. However, the draft constitutional revision that I voted for has been completely upset by the House; I therefore find myself fully in agreement with the contrary position of Forza Italia. I have always believed that in order to best represent the cross-section of civil society, thus guaranteeing continuity and validity over time, reforms to the Constitutional Charter should include broad sharing. On the contrary, the Democratic Party, in violation of the principle of democracy contained in its name, discusses the reform within the seats of the party and not in the Chamber, thus not guaranteeing dialogue and confrontation with the other groups representing the Italian people. We know that the deadline for tabling amendments was 9 a.m. this morning; should we wait for the media to know them? The PD, it is well to remember, governs having obtained 25,43 percent of the votes in the Chamber in 2013 and having obtained the majority prize thanks to the 3.2 percent of SEL, which is now firmly in opposition; a majority prize thanks to which the text of reform of the Constitution has been overturned in the House, which is now being imposed on the Senate in an almost armored text. Forza Italia already in 2005, during the Berlusconi Government, had proposed a constitutional reform that was approved by both Chambers and that subsequently did not pass the proof of the confirmation referendum. The text adopted provided for the reduction of parliamentarians (one third less than today), the reduction of legislative time and, finally, the specialization of the roles of the two chambers. The Senate, therefore, was recognized as functions and tasks quite different from those envisaged today by the reform under consideration. The same would have participated with dignity in the election of the President of the Republic and exercised control over the work of the Chamber of Deputies. The current reform, on the other hand, presents a strong reduction, if not almost an annulment, of the functions of the Senate and also with an invisible power, reducing the number of senators from three hundred fifteen to one hundred and maintaining the six hundred thirty MPs; it is evident to all the enormous disproportion. The emptying of the functions and powers of the Senate, with the centralization of the same to the Chamber, should have foreseen at least a greater devolution towards the Regions, instead the latter have undergone a strong reduction of their competences; they have been depleted of their power, so much so that the bill provides for a supremacy of the state competences and therefore a centralization of the powers in the Chamber, therefore an institutional neocentralism. It destroys the traditional architrave that recognized roles similar to the two Chambers and comes to a de facto monocameralism, where the equal participation of the two Assemblies will be limited to the laws of constitutional revision and to a reduced number of ordinary bicameral laws. The Senate will remain a power of veto that will be inconsistent on the laws passed by the House, considering that this can overcome the same veto or any changes proposed by Palazzo Madama with a simple majority vote, and let's remember that that simple majority would be the same determined by the majority prize of Italicum. Moreover, with the same numbers determined by Italicum through the arranged combined, the House of six hundred thirty members, compared to the Senate of only one hundred members, would elect the judges of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Republic and more. Personally and as an exponent of the Forza Italia party, I believe that the regulatory framework proposed by us in 2005 is still more valid than the one proposed by the reform under discussion. Colleagues, with the reform of Minister Boschi we are witnessing the birth of a Chamber of Deputies which are attributed not powers but overpowers and a Senate of the Republic with residual powers, or rather functions, because there is no talking about powers. I think it is also worth stressing the new composition planned for the Senate: mayors and regional councillors who do not know on what basis they will be chosen, but it can be assumed that the choice will be of a political type and expression of the majority of the governing party. Colleagues, it is clear to all of us what commitment we are required to play the role of senators. It is equally clear to many of us what the commitment required of a mayor or regional councillor to play the role for which he was elected is. I therefore ask you how it is possible to play two such challenging roles at the same time; in doing so, there is a risk that neither one or the other will be done well. I also believe that I can say that citizens would not be satisfied with having a mayor or regional councillor who, having to be present in Rome to carry out his parliamentary activity, would not have the opportunity to best safeguard the interests of their territory; unless it is a Senate emptied of functions, as we believe it will, and therefore the presence of future senators in Rome is completely superfluous. One could arrive at the French paradox, which provides for the vote by proxy required by the repeated absences of the senators, elected precisely among the mayors. In France, however, a constitutional reform is being considered which elects senators without further assignments; exactly the opposite of what we are going to do today with this constitutional reform. Ladies and gentlemen, the lack of presence in the House during the reform debate confirms the awareness that the text is armored and that any changes concern only the debates between majority and minority within the Democratic Party. Their greatest concern would appear to be that of the elective system, which I am also sincerely uninterested in. Since the Senate will no longer function, I wonder if these really are the conditions to keep a Chamber stripped of any competence and power, left as the facade of a fake bicameralism, and if it is not more just to eliminate it, thus realizing the real cost cut of politics so advertised by Prime Minister Renzi and included in the title of the reform. We are faced with the drift of democracy, where the citizen is no longer placed at the centre of political decisions, but at the extremes. A policy that, if this reform should pass, will regulate with power firmly in the hands of the Government, or rather its President not directly elected by the people, the return to a pseudodictatorship. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is what we are talking about. I conclude with a reflection: this reform in fact only strengthens the power of the Government at the expense of a Parliament, a true exponent of democracy and the sovereignty of the people, further motivation for my vote against the constitutional reform under consideration. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u133	Senator Bonfrisco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, the stunt of the debate in the Commission, on the other hand, the mockery of tabling 81 million amendments put an end to this painful reading by the Senate on the substantive issue surrounding the defence of democracy.And yet, in the end, the Groups in the Commission had withdrawn many of the amendments tabled, thinking of dealing with the debate there and leaving on the table only the most significant texts and those of real interest to the citizens (here we are, the citizens); we have tabled few of them of quality, all of which are geared towards those citizens. On the other hand, the permanent congress of the Democratic Party which has been going on for about a year on the media and unfortunately also in Parliament - and I remind you above all, Mr Mirabelli - distorts the natural debate on reforms, which should see the whole House of this Senate, like that of the House, engaged in a substantial unity of intent in modernising the form of government and form of representation. The contribution of the Conservatives and Reformists, through our proposals for amendments, is in fact linked to the issues closest to the lives of citizens. The issue of taxation is for us the main concern of the citizens, together with the absence of work and the economic crisis. It is the point we hold most, the point we ask for the Constitution to safeguard. We call for the Constitution to safeguard the need for the overall tax levy to never exceed two fifths of GDP in the previous year. It would be a revolution, this yes, indeed it would be the revolution, the approval of this amendment would force everyone, all politics to review the entire tax system of our country, universally recognized as oppressive. For us, in fact, the time has come to act, to bully the hand brake of the tax burden on the country. It is one of our battles, which will not end here: let's also say that less taxes for all, as we have always argued, must be clearly written in the Constitution, so that governments do not derogate to the fundamental principle of Article 53, which wants the citizen to contribute only according to his own possibilities and today those possibilities are scarce. In addition to the tax ceiling, we ask to include rules that protect the certainties of the Italians and that, recalling the statute of the taxpayer's rights, put the citizen at the centre of the law with his right to live in his own country as such and not as a subject. We have taken care to address equally sensitive and important issues for the country such as the infrastructural equalization, an apparently difficult expression, but for us the country must be held together in development, not only between North and South, but also between North and North and between South and South. For us, too, the direct election by the citizens of the President of the Republic, if Parliament is unable to elect it by the fifth ballot, serves to fill the vacuum of latent democracy that this reform produces. The revision of the regional structure also compensates for the heavy cost of providing essential services to citizens, where many regions have dramatically failed. Let it be clear that we, too, Conservatives and Reformists - as my colleague Mr Floris said earlier - in the light of reforms that have become "reformettes," prefer the real simplification of the abolition of the Senate, so as not to end this ugly parliamentary page in the same way as that of the Provinces. I would like to give back to this majority what not yet President Napolitano said in 2005 on the reform of the Berlusconi Government: a horrendous constitutional reform. Someone, moreover, had already predicted this. Indro Montanelli said that only the Constitution can be changed in Italy; everything else remains as it is. I, however, do not want to give in to pessimism and then wonder who can change things. The answer is simple, Madam President, always the citizen. Is it possible, Mr Quagliariello and colleagues from the People's Area Group (NCD-UDC), to whom I address this reflection, that this principle, which is only the citizen who has the power to change, both on the reforms and on Italicum, has escaped you so much to generate today, almost a year later, so many crocodile tears? At the half funeral of democracy that is being celebrated today we do not ask our repentant colleagues for this choice to bring flowers, but only for opposing votes. For us, the citizen must always be the protagonist of political and institutional life and, when this is difficult, he must be promoted and supported. That is why one of the amendments we have tabled concerns the issue of primaries which, if properly regulated, allow us to become, like other countries, a modern democracy. We want to open the door to all citizens who want to participate directly in our democratic life: why, instead, do you do everything to get that citizen, the blessed citizen, from whom democracy is promoted? Dear colleague Paolo Romani - here near me, today repented of the position he expressed a year ago with many colleagues from Forza Italia - I am sure you remember how only a year ago we begged you not to trample on all the common history of the center-right, our glories, our dreams and our values, melting you in that Lion pact of the Nazarene. The oxen, ladies and gentlemen, despite the protests of someone - like Mr Gasparri, whom I listened to this morning - must not escape from the stable. The oxen, ladies and gentlemen, have already escaped and are exposed in the butcher shop around the corner. But I want to respond to this with an appeal because, in my opinion, there is the time and the way to remedy it. Let us start again while we are in time with a strong vote against, not to be remembered as the last democratic Parliament that, before committing suicide, has produced a legal abortion: a reform that intervenes on everything, as if it were an omnibus decree, except on what really matters, namely the future and the well-being of the citizens. I appeal to you, Madam President, to send it to President Grasso, who I ask not to be passively involved in the compulsory winding-up of democratic representation. I ask President Grasso to defend the vote of the Italians, to protect the Italians from the tension produced by a non-representative Senate and an overwhelming electoral law. Democracy can and must be reorganized with modern processes, to make it more effective and real, but it cannot be distorted and distorted at the service of a man and, worse still, at the service of a party. [[Applause from the CoR and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u135	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate these days has also made it clear, if we still need it, that the main objective of this reform is the overcoming of equal bicameralism. I do not consider it to be an absolute truth, given that parliamentary experience has also taught us that often the two readings allow to improve a regulatory text and perhaps to read in a better perspective also its functionality. But so much, the time seems ripe to deal with this novelty. Most Members of this House, even from what we have heard these days, are now clearly geared towards this objective. It is a major position in this direction that at least limits, if you want to look at the glass half full, the danger of coming out of trace in what remains a delicate process of constitutional reform that you wanted to start. If there is therefore a common point from which to start, a contact channel to find a useful compromise in Parliament for the country, that is without doubt. That is also an objective that should embrace the ambition of the citizens, who want a more streamlined legislative and democratic process, it is true, but who have also lived on their own the experience of the last twenty years in which many legislators, in the name of simplification, have produced interventions that have had completely opposite effects. The famous reform of Title V of the Constitution is the most obvious example: a reform that was born badly and quickly that today forces even those who were most solicitous supporters to admit serious problems that should be absolutely correct. In order to be more recent, we have the example of the abolition of the Provinces, which has produced problems and problems on which this House too has often been involved. That is why I believe that citizens are not passionate about a debate that is entangled in technicalism and that instead makes it a bit confusing merit and risks that accompany this reform system, which is born with an anomaly almost congenital in this legislature. We must not forget that this reform has also been given birth by the Commission and that unfortunately it still tends to be managed, more than in Parliament, by the majority or perhaps only by the relative majority party in this country. I believe that we cannot passively go along with a process of reform that is packaged and sealed with the government's own label: it would be a serious mistake as well as an inappropriate invasion of the field. My inspiration - it has always been, but today it is even more so - is that this remains a noble passage, the noblest, so noble as to make the veins tremble to the wrists of us legislators, as some colleagues said before me. We are amending our Constitutional Charter and this cannot and must not remain an exercise to the sole majority, but it must represent a moment, a test in which we must all feel the responsibility for a delicate task and commit ourselves to giving the best in order not to betray the values of the Italian Constitution and to give a more functional system than the current one and the needs of the country. That is why I find it frankly embarrassing that muscle tests should be used to try to bring home results from the majority, certainly, and, for obvious reasons of countermeasure, from the opposition. In this sense, while I still have the greatest respect for the approach that some colleagues have legitimately chosen to deal with the process of this reform, since I considered it highly spoiled, I wanted to try to relaunch, trying at this stage to escape a merely obstructive approach. I am not excited by an extended arm-arm with amendments; the risk is that of wielding a weapon, expressing, yes, an extraordinary force, but that in the end, given the practice, already adopted several times in this legislature, of using methods that inhibit amending obstructionism, such as, for example, the so-called kangaroo. There is more. The value of a majestic amending activity certainly lends itself alongside the alibi of procedural counter-measures, thus reducing the responsibility to confront itself in order to add something positive to a reform process. I do not want to lend myself to this alibi; I do not want to lend myself to the alibi of making parliamentary dialogue less easy, while at the same time risking irritating and disrespecting the citizens, who are now tempted to brand these initiatives as parliamentary melines. For this reason, I have decided to table a few amendments and all of them in substance: a challenge and in the same way an approach of responsibility which, I hope, however, is reflected in this House. Today, in fact, we are called to focus on the merit, not wanting to consider the opportunity to make a contribution of value and positive significance to the reform process as yet completely disappeared. If we still have a large number of authoritative constitutionalists calling on us to correct this reform and to make clear some of its fundamental steps, then obviously the debate on the amendments that must take place in the next few days must be the best opportunity for us to reverse the process that has characterized the process so far. We cannot, in fact, allow the passage on the amendment of the Constitution to be only the ownership of the parties that support the Government, leaving to the opposition the role and the task of a mere obstructive activity. If we agree at least on this - and I think it could not be otherwise - then there are two levels of intervention that we must take, in my view, at the same time. The first is of substance. The reflection that we must make is on the new functions and powers to be assigned or, better, hand over to the new Chamber that will come to life after this reform, in order to make sure that the bicameralism is truly equal and there are, however, unnecessary and harmful overlaps with other organisms. What are the guarantees and instruments with which to ensure the right and democratic balance between powers? That is the question to which we are called to answer. I believe that today, in the current plant under discussion, this answer is not exhaustive. But it's not enough. We want to simplify with respect to prefect legislative bicameralism, then, however, we expect as many as four, if not five, separate legislative procedures, that it is easy to predict will give rise to frequent and not easily resoluble conflicts between the two Chambers on who does what. Or again, where do we want to start for a fair redistribution of competences between the various parts of the state? In my opinion, for example, the wordings produced so far relating to the distribution of legislative competence are not sound. I refer to the so-called general and common provisions, which unfortunately already generate uncertainty, as reported in the case of the Senate Studies Service, and which are therefore intended to produce further conflict between central and peripheral levels of government. In summary, the concurrent competence, which has generated so much litigation at the Constitutional Court, comes out the door, but would come back from the window. In short, we risk carrying with us, as an undesirable legacy, a vice that we already know and of which we pay heavily the price, even in the most recent and lower-ranking measures (I refer, for example, to the unblocking Italy). In order to remain in fact to the recent facts, we know that in these days some referendums will take place in order to avoid the danger of the search for hydrocarbons through drilling in the Adriatic, a decision taken by the central government, to which the Regions are now forced to oppose demanding the referendum repeal. Another theme: the focus of the discussion remains the electivity of the senators, therefore the exercise of democracy as defined by definition, that is the right-duty of citizens to elect their representatives. The message that accompanied this year of discussion has always been that the non-elective Senate becomes necessary to overcome equal bicameralism. I believe that this is a wrong message and that I hope this parliamentary debate will finally be able to heal. The second level, on the other hand, is of form, a form that summarizes and summarizes the whole scope of this measure, because here the reflection and deepening to be done is on the index of democracy that we want to achieve through the election of representatives, who will then be called to play their role on these very benches of ours. By permanently attaching this reform to the new electoral law, we must produce the effort to predict its overall result, resulting from both changes, so important for the institutional architecture of our country. It is necessary to avoid the risk of possible influence by the Commission on the other powers of the State, first and foremost President of the Republic and Consulta. It is a risk that becomes even more dangerous if we think that with Italicum the Executive is handed over to a single political force, because of a choice that, in my opinion, has to be discussed again. It is a choice that assigns the majority prize to the list and therefore to a single party, not instead to the coalition. We are still in time to correct the course, as Italicum exposes us to the risk of an authoritarian drift. The choice to assign the majority prize to a single list and the possibility, for now only apparently averted, to see senators elected through forms of second degree risk concentrating the choices of representatives in the intimacy of party secretariats, and this is both in the House and in the Senate. It is a choice that proposes, under a new guise, perhaps even more daring, a solution that the Consulta has not delayed to define illegitimate. The time, however, Madam President, as always on these occasions, will manifest itself, referring to the need to conclude without being able to develop certain issues, which also, in my opinion, are relevant to the issues of rights guarantees or the limitation of regional functions. I hope that the debate on the amendments will not be forced and will give us this opportunity, because I believe it will give us a political conclusion to a legislative process capable of widening the audience and not keeping it close to the parties that support the majority of the Government. We need a supplement of constituent animus, said some colleagues, to seek solutions shared even in perspective from the celebration of a referendum, which cannot be transformed, in any way, into a plebiscite, but must represent a free popular convocation, which remains free from evidence of force. In short, let's make sure that these days is an effective work, open, and that it leaves spaces of intervention able to make us fulfill the responsibility to deliver to those who will come after us a constitutional system so modified, but able to stand and in balance, and perhaps more functional than the present. Simplification tout court cannot, in my opinion, be a recipe for achieving this important objective. [[Applause from Senator Petraglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u137	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scibona. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u138	Madam President, representatives of the Government, colleagues, a great deal has already been said by my colleagues, but I would also like to say something. The moment is crucial and Italian citizens must know that, in such a dramatic historical period, in which we are overwhelmed by the problem of corruption, by the destruction of welfare and now also by the dismantling of work and school, the priorities of this majority, from the Democratic Party to the New Right Centre, then moving from all new Groups (but with the same faces), are exclusively personal or party tournaments. In the House we started with the Boccadutri law for the financing of parties (with broad agreement, since in favor there were also the North League and the entire right parliamentary constellation); here in the Senate, with constitutional reforms, which do not serve the citizen but only the party secretary, accidentally also Head of Government, to carry out a plan of rebirth and the Renzi-dictatorship. Take this measure to the House because you did not have the numbers in the Commission. You focus on how to make Italians digest the dismantling of the last democratic bulwark of this country: the Constitution. Renzi made threats to this institution and its Presidency, but while a veiled word of a 5 Star Senator was immediately stigmatized as an insult to the Presidency (and widespread in the world of vision), the fact that he wanted to reduce us to a museum, in addition part time - and perhaps send the President Grasso to make the wax statue - did not arise either indignant nor taken the position of the Presidency itself or of the careful world of information and politics. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The quota of the times was a first bow to Renzi; it was a kissing of hands to the President of the Council: behaviors that I would never have expected from an anti-Mafia champion. What then about this majority, this anti-democratic party or more simply composed largely of ignorant and supposed? Does our Italy drown in the neglect of the territory and in the hydrogeological failure? The Senate discusses the functioning of the Chambers. Rome Capital is paralyzed by traffic (as well as corruption), public transport is at a loss; the regions cut lines and services, disappear local transport? At the Senate we tell ourselves about the disruption of the legislative process as the cause of all the evils. Outside, schools open, teachers start exodus up and down the boot, looking for a supplement, and away from home. Only a few lucky teachers have the chair under the house. And then better so, because paying the state helicopter even for his wife's home-work trip would have been too much! Maybe someone could wake up from numbness and raise their voices. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The families fight with the dear books on the one hand and the drying up of the funds of the institutions for the right to study on the other, without forgetting a passage to the supermarket to buy paper for the children: the reams for the photocopies and the toilet for the bathrooms. Inside the Palace, however, we face the ownership of the relationship of trust between Parliament and Government. There's no shooting. The data communicated by ISTAT are only the result of the economic situation and the lowering of the price of oil. Employment contracts are only a transformation of other types; the number of new recruits does not increase. The 45 - year - olds and 50 - year - olds who lose their jobs will no longer be reabsorbed by the productive system. It increases poverty, increases the shares of those who suffer poverty. Instead of discussing citizenship income, what does this little House do? He wonders about the majorities necessary for the election of the President of the Republic (I think the least!). You're worse than Maria Antoinette: out people starve and you guys in here bake the croissants! You, Renzian senators, ultras of this Government, are in the image and likeness of your god, your prophet, your leader in short. Part of you is unconstitutional, elected with a majority prize then cashed out. You are anti-democratic and you support an illegal and irresponsible government. Support an unelected Head of Government (from three mandates there are unelected Heads of Government!) And you want to export this model to the Senate? You want to send regional councillors and mayors chosen by your peers to the House; to trample on the vote and opinion of the citizen. We will have the Senate of the unelected and probably of the largely condemned, sent here only for immunity and to represent the interest of the party. We're at science fiction, we're at lobbying. We're gonna have political lobbying! Perfect bicameralism can be overcome, but you use the excuse of overcoming it to create a constitutional monster: a complete destabilisation of the democratic system, a subversion of the balance of powers. Open the door to formal and legalized dictatorship and realize the desires of the most Mason among the Masons, perhaps with the bust of theduce in the bedroom, on the bedside table. Even from the economic point of view, it's a mess. Today the Senate spends a lot of public money - it is undeniable - but at least a large part of it is spent on the functioning of a useful, necessary and essential body as a guarantor of democracy. After the reform you will spend a lot of money anyway, because the savings is practically non-existent, for a second level institution, essentially useless and planned only to keep the deer of your friends safe. This reform is a failure. I won't waste so much time and I won't even address your consciences because it's clear now: yes men like you are only able to shout some slogans from the corner and certainly not show a bit of pride and dignity. In fact, you are Italy that would like to live in 1942; you represent it at its best. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u139	Senator Mauro Mario is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u140	Madam President, Minister, Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, before I can even know the opinion of the President of the Senate on what is actually amendable, the aim I aim at with the course of the speech is to promote the focus of the most thorny issues after the vote of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to start from what is the least considered and which has been lost in the evaluations that have also been made in the Commission: I refer to the further intervention on Title V of Part II of the Constitution and the package of rules that regulate and regulate the relationship between the State and the Regions. I quote this because it is a clear example of the fragility of the system and a careful examination of the new text leads to the evidence that the system will drag behind the relevant problems that could also lead to the collapse of our regionalism. Our regionalism is not necessarily to be put on the shields, but perhaps it does not deserve to be punished because the reform of 2001, which has made it neglect, has already laid the premises for some incongruent capitals. As for the first inconsistencies, the rule contained the distinction between what is of the State and what is of the Regions, or of competing legislation. It is now intended to remedy with this passage and we tend, therefore, to leave only between State and Regions, but the new constitutional vocabulary makes a reference to general and common provisions that will cost us another ten years of conflict before the Constitutional Court to understand who should do what. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I really call everyone to our common sense, because a serious problem that we have had as a result of amendments to the Constitution out of an overall view is linked to the fact that, by simply making semantic translations of political difficulties, in the end they remain on the ground of the issues just mentioned and not substantially modified by the new provisions; issues that then require a confrontation - I would say a competition - on which are going to give the best of themselves the most equipped regions and with the best legislative offices, while those less equipped and with less adequate legislative offices inevitably remain behind. Attention. If we have also imagined regionalism as a qualifying figure of our democracy, making that regionalism more fragile in the name of an abstract prefectism, which tends to bring back to the centre what should be the result of dialogue and loyal collaboration between the institutions of the State, it can, over time, lead to a problem and a danger to democracy. When I talk about the problem and the danger to democracy, I do not intend to evoke in an absurd way imaginative risks, but rather to specify the fact that, where the institutions are made weaker because the task they are called is less clear and the tools and opportunities they have available to achieve it, democracy is inevitably more fragile. Analogous observation I make for what is the organic vision of the project and its repercussions on the efficiency of the system itself. I have already mentioned in the Commission the words of Sergio Mattarella of 2005, who are not repeated to pull the jacket to what is now the new Head of State and yesterday was an eminent man of reference of the center-left Italian. Rather, I say that the problem that Mattarella posed then remained unresolved. What's the problem? It is the problem of consistency in the system between constitutional change and electoral law. Now, this problem is a major one, as Mr Quagliariello reminded us today. And it is a major problem because, when we make it possible to force a new role of the Government and, in particular, of the President-in-Office of the Council in the scheme that we imagine, it is clear that, if we do not have to oppose this reading an adequate interpretation of what the democratic system will produce through electoral law, we highlight a further fragility of the system. Of course, the most problematic observations have been heard on this, even those which are the result of greater political tension. In fact, the problem of coherence is really very simple. A system within which, if there is a strengthening of the role of the Government and the Head of the Executive, it is necessary to understand how the other orders and powers of the State are equipped in order to compete, compete together (cumpetere) and together seek the best solution to solve the problems of our country. Furthermore, the third question concerns the risk of a democratic deficit caused by the massive majority prize for the party, plus the ballot, plus the forced composition of the Senate. And here are two assets that - from my point of view - are interesting. The problem, in fact, is not the elective Senate. The problem is what the Senate should be. And what the Senate should be is understood even more when it is claimed that it is the Senate of the autonomous and, paradoxically, it leaves the State-Regions Conference the place of negotiation between the State and the Regions. If the Senate is not the Bundesrat, if the Senate wants to be something different from some kind of post-rail job, what really must it do and how is the instrument of election proportionate for the system to work? Even more, I would like to mention in this regard the reflection of the former judge of the Constitutional Court. The House becomes a mere appendix of the Government but, especially in its relationship with the Government, it is not the House that counts, but the only majority. The confidence ratio is only internal to the majority. This call of Mattarella poses a further problem. What is trust in that House? Is trust an act that moves from the House to the President of the Council or is it the confidence of the President of the Council towards those whom he has appointed to be performers of the hypothetical mandate he has on his shoulders? And this is another element of contradiction. In short, the electoral reform, combined with the constitutional counter-reform, which eliminates the Senate as an elected body of citizens and representative of popular sovereignty; which subtracts the regions from the government of the territory and creates an unprecedented model of absolute pre-emirate, with an unusual concentration of power in the hands of the Government and its Head, giving in fact to a single party, which could also be the expression of a small minority of voters, executive power and legislative power, also conditioning the appointment of the President of the Republic, the members of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council of the judiciary (fundamental guarantee bodies for the life of democracy, as built by the Constitution born from the Resistance) that is the centrality of Parliament, in short, overthrows all this. And confidence - as I said just now - after this change, in fact would no longer go from Parliament to the Government, but from the Head of Government to Parliament. In this way the Senate would become a completely unspoken organ, without real autonomy, while the House of Deputies would be subject, by virtue of a huge majority prize, to the hegemony of a single party, in the context of a drastic reduction of popular representativeness. These were the substantive remarks I wanted to bring to your attention, to which I add a brief political notation. As we are known and perceived outside, this is the Parliament where representatives of the Democratic Party sit, but also those of the League, of the 5 Star Movement, of Forza Italia, in the Chamber of Brothers of Italy: these last parties, regardless of the parliamentary values they express today for the famous events of the legislature, represent in the popular intentions of voting, also in the light of the results of the last elections, even European, more than 50% of those who voted in the elections. Making a reform with a political position that tends to neentify the opinion of this 50% is - from my point of view - a very dangerous gamble. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u141	Madam President, I begin by pointing out that in this parliamentary term, even before the late Nazarene Pact, four main areas of constitutional change had been identified by the Commission's investigation into the reforms, the implementation of which was unanimously considered necessary: firstly, the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, the overcoming of equalism and a stricter discipline of the decree of urgency; secondly, the strengthening of the prerogatives of the Government in Parliament, through the single chamber trust, and the simplification of the decision-making process; thirdly, the reform of the constitutional system of the regions and local self-government, which significantly reduces the overlaps of competences by reducing the conflict produced by the reform of Title V; finally, the reform of the government system, which remained in an indefinite limbo. The virtues of perfect bicameralism, wanted by the constituent Assembly so that no one was completely excluded from the political direction, have transformed over time into evident criticalities. Two Houses that both have to vote for the government, with non-coincident electoral systems, active electoral and passive, differentiated, make any majority precarious. Almost a thousand Members who have to vote on identical legislative texts make the shuttles frequent and tiring, favouring the use of an unnerving obstruction that prevents the adoption of measures in physiological times. In this context, the reform we are discussing introduces a form of differentiated bicameralism in which the second chamber is assigned the essential function of representing the link with regional and territorial autonomy. If it gets to the bottom, it will still be a historic result. Having said that, and coming into line between institutional reform and electoral law, many in this House have also denounced the alleged autocratic nature of the reform. It has been argued that it would create an authoritarian system which gives the President of the Council master powers. Personally, I see no authoritarian drift, no lack of representation and no attempt to make the circuit opaque between sovereign determination of the people and the chosen model of the elect. It is said that a party could win the election with 30% and, after the victory at the ballot, control the only Legislative Chamber, however elected only in part with the vote of preference, without even having the counterweight of control of a strong Senate. So? In many other major democracies there are substantial majority prizes that lead to winning even those who have just taken 30% of the votes. It is a characteristic, this, which is found mainly in the French and British electoral systems which, in fact, have very substantial majority prizes. At the 2005 British politics, with 35.2 percent of the votes, Labour earned three hundred and fifty - six seats, with a 20 - percent prize. The same thing could be done for the French system. In many electoral systems, in short, the disproportion between voting percentages and assigned seats is very high, in the name of governability, but no one has ever questioned either the regularity of the vote or the full democratic nature of those systems. In addition, in seven European countries the second Chamber does not exist: in Finland, Denmark, Sweden, Greece, Luxembourg and Malta, Parliament is single-chamber. In the other eight countries only in Spain the second Chamber is largely elective. To find a high chamber with powers similar to our present Senate, one must go to the United States or Japan, while the European model is that of monocameralism or asymmetrical bicameralism. So, where would the scandal have been if you had chosen a Senate that was not directly elected by the citizens, if this is the rule in Europe? There has been a double agreement on the non-electivity of the Senate directly, but now the Democratic Party and the Government seem to have rethinked it and have considered to revise anyway the fifth paragraph of Article 2, with an amendment that actually overturns the approach followed so far and that speaks of "chosen in accordance with the choices expressed by the voters for the candidates advisors on the occasion of the renewal of the same organs," that is, of the regional councils. It is not, therefore, a second-level election endorsed by the voters, but a direct election of the new senators, who, having at this point the same legitimacy as the Members, could also aspire with some reason to give confidence to the Government. It would be like starting from the start. Let's hope not. However, it is important for us not to repeat the experiences of the past and not to fail this reform as well. Better a reform not perfect, if the alternative is to keep everything as it is now, in the belief that this legislature, out of an election without winners, makes sense only if it succeeds in being constituent. This reform provides for a strong reduction of parliamentary bicameralism and some strengthening of the government. This is what the centre-right - if I remember correctly - has been asking for for more than twenty years and, for consistency, I can only be in favour. Among other things, monocameralism and strengthening of the powers of the Government were also well present in the work of the Constituent. Calamandrei, Mortati and Perassi fought not to reach a parliamentary system with unstable governments: they knew that fascism was not the product of strong Executives, but of the weakness of the precarious governments of the liberal period. Today, in our political system, the instruments of pluralism and institutions designed to balance powers, to avoid excessive concentration in one body, have multiplied. Many powers have been referred to the European Union and the Regions, which act as counter-powers, conditioning and holding back the action of the Parliament-Government complex. Today, more than ever, we need executives who have a less fragile base and a longer life if we are to compete on equal terms in Europe. In a modern parliamentary democracy the balance of government powers is achieved through a strengthening of the opposition in the Chamber of Deputies, as well as the representation of regional governments in the Senate. It would therefore be more consistent to bind the vote of the senators to the indications of the Region that elected them, as happens - for example - in Germany, where in fact the members of the same Land are required to vote unitedly, on the basis of a predetermined choice of the institution they represent. This would be an antidote to the risk of the representatives of the new Senate attacking themselves according to party logics, typical of the Political Chambers, instead facilitating the expression of the variable territorial interests, according to what should be the authentic mission of the Federal Chambers. On the other hand, the first Italian regionalism has already been shipwrecked by the inability of the Regions to emancipate politically from the national organs of the political parties, which instead took place after the launch of constitutional law n. 1 of 1999, with the direct election of the Presidents of the Region, but giving rise to a situation in which the divergences of interests between the two territorial levels, national and regional, have almost never found adequate composition, giving rise to a considerable constitutional dispute aggravated then by the reform of Title V of 2001. Article 31 of the draft law in question contains the supremacy clause, which the State may exercise vis-à-vis the Regions. Therefore, the State will be able to deal with the competences of the Regions, allowing also the commissioning of Regions and local authorities in case of serious financial failure, and this goes in the right direction. But, in many cases, the border of competences remains too labile and uncertain. There is talk, in fact, of territorial planning within the competence of the Regions and of the government of the territory that belongs to the State: on this point there is a clear overlap of roles that will inevitably lead to new conflicts and a new series of appeals before the Constitutional Court. There is also one last critical issue that we have a duty to point out. Today we have three orders of legislative procedures: ordinary, constitutional legislation, decree-laws and delegated decrees. With the reform the legislative procedures become ten, too many: there is bicameral legislation, the monocameral one, the monocameral one with strengthened role of the Senate, that of the laws of popular initiative, etc. It is, therefore, ten different channels for the laws. If it is the Presidents of the Chamber and the Senate who will decide in agreement what is the pre-eminent matter, and therefore which channel will have to take the measure, it must be clearly written that the decisions of the Presidents of the Chamber and the Senate are indispensable in any place, otherwise again in this case new external conflicts are predictable. As for the functions of the new Senate, after the debauchery occurred in the passage to the Chamber, the forecast of the election of two constitutional judges by the Senate is reinstated: this is a fair index of the representative differentiation of the two Chambers. In fact, we will have three judges elected by the House, representative of the national community, and two judges elected by the Senate, representative of the autonomy. So the right balance returns. In conclusion, this reform, although with all the problems highlighted, represents a significant step forward to finally equip Italy with an institutional system comparable to that of the other major European democracies; a system which, by balance and restraint, is undoubtedly more solid than the one it replaces. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u142	Madam President, in the democratic systems, the Constitutions lay down rules that should apply not for a few years, but for decades. And the validity and effectiveness of the democratic rate of those rules are measured not on the majorities, which inevitably are led to consider the immediate advantages, but on the minorities, who must feel guaranteed and participated in the pact that the Republic should hold for the next decades. In this case, Madam President - and I say this to my fellow Members, because everything that has happened in the various passages of the constitutional reform bill must always be reported - there has been a very opposite situation. Minorities have remained methodically uneducated, even when they made very serious and reasonable proposals, which certainly did not have the intention nor could be exchanged for attempts to sabotage an end in themselves, but aimed exclusively to render a true service to the Republic and, therefore, to make reform better, democratic and more effective; a constitutional reform that has been for years the mantra, a sort of obsession on which the various political ruling classes have measured themselves that, in these stormy years, have followed each other in our country. We have always thought that, in reality, the obsession of the reform was an alibi for those who were unable to govern the country, to give adequate answers to its real problems, almost blaming the Constitution for all their ineffective and inability. And, actually, the mantra has repeated itself. When I said that we have made an attempt, it is because - as the whole debate of the Constitutional Assembly teaches us - when the Constitution comes to fruition, we should come to a meeting between different and different political cultures and face the real problems facing us in the country, and for this reason I have spoken of unheard minorities. From the very first step, we have essentially put two questions: The real question we had to face was before everyone's eyes. I am referring to the crisis of representation and the real problem, which is repeated in every election, the disaffection of citizens and their lack of confidence in the institutions. Therefore, we needed to put in place more effective instruments to rebuild this pact, a trust. It is no coincidence that we have focused very much on the issue of enlargement of the instruments of participation: referendums, popular initiative laws and referendums. But in this case, too, we were unheard. Why is that? Constitutionalism was born to limit the sovereign, and not to give him more power. If anything, he was born to give more power to the people, and not to the only leader and sovereign. Instead, the opposite operation was carried out here. Secondly, we have said that we want to overcome the bicameralism of equality. There are serious and reasonable roads. We don't have to monkey, but we have to choose a path. As far as we are concerned, we have made a proposal - and I repeat it here - which was serious, reasonable and rational, which resulted in a reduction in the number of Members of the House, as in the Senate, and which attributed to the latter the powers of control. In all democratic systems, the real question is the question of controls and balances. On the other hand, the road that has been chosen is completely different, and not only because of the forcings, which we have also witnessed today. We are here in this House because in the Commission, after the declaration of inadmissibility and the withdrawal of the amendments (we have maintained only those of merit), we did not want to discuss the debate, which would have enabled it to remedy a number of obvious criticalities of this constitutional bill. Instead, what is the effect that has been produced? It's no use turning around. If we consider this reform and the electoral law (the Italicum) as a single integrated complex - and it is, of course, the objective is not to empower citizens anymore, to rebuild a relationship of trust, to restore efficiency and simplification to the democratic system. But, in reality, it is the modification of the form of government. There is no point in turning around: we are in fact changing the parliamentary system and the result of this affair is exactly overturning the balance between the powers that have been defined by the Constitution, in order to assign to the legislative power, that is to say to Parliament, a function that is only ancillary to the Commission. This is what is produced with Italicum. And the problem is the majority prize and the ballot, which will have a distorting effect on the representation system. In addition to all this, the path chosen for overcoming the perfect bicameralism is a sort of senate larva, whose functions, among other things, after the passage to the House, are absolutely messy (there is no proper function), and without having any more its popular legitimacy. We will have to discuss this in Parliament; the issue is not closed - I say this to the Minister too - with the agreement made within the Democratic Party. That proposal does not solve the fundamental issue that many constitutionalists have pointed out to us. There are byzantineisms and escamotage to bypass, to give a little more indication by the citizens. But, in reality, we are always faced with an indirect election and the fact that there is no more popular legitimacy. When there is the legislative function - and this "Senaticchio," although modified, a legislative function still has it, since it retains competence on the constitutional revision - it can only come from the people, only if there is direct suffrage and popular legitimacy. This is a basic democratic principle. When we talk - for example - about the French Senate, the confrontation does not stand. Meanwhile, that Senate is elected by 150,000 great voters. But, in Article 3 of the French Constitution, there is precisely the explicit declination of representation, as direct and indirect election. This isn't our case. Article 1 of our Constitution, which I have quoted several times and which the Constitutional Court itself refers to in its ruling on Porcellum, is violated. And that is the fundamental point. All political bodies that carry out legally binding deliberations for the whole community must find their legitimacy in the popular vote. The draft agreement does not solve this and it also creates a problem - I mean - because the issue of the transitional rule in Article 39 is not addressed. It will then happen that perhaps there will be about twenty senators elected perhaps among the advisers, in accordance with the electoral instructions, although I do not know how this will happen; but the other 55, because of that transitional rule, will be chosen from among the regional advisers. Even if that amendment were passed, only by 2020 would we have a Senate in line with that plant. The underlying ideology, in fact, is to subtract any relationship and legitimacy from the citizens' vote in the end. I have the impression that, precisely in order not to deal with this, there is a risk of creating further problems, from a technical and democratic point of view. All in all - I repeat - there are no balances, there is no adequate system of control, while democratic systems are made of this. Everything is unbalanced in favour of the Executive and a single party. We will have as effect that there will be a leader, other than the imitation of the sovereign and the king: it will be the sovereign who chooses those who will have to stay in Parliament and who will reduce Parliament to an ancillary function. The problem of balances, therefore, is very serious. As far as we are concerned, as always - and that is why I wanted to remind you of the passages in which we presented our proposals (a hundred and fifty senators, three hundred and fifty Members), in which we have dealt with various issues concerning very different functions, in a very clear way, out of the mess that has been created - we would like to be on the subject. We endured forcing at first reading, forcing the House, forcing last week to bring the measure to the House, so we cannot now be held responsible. In any case, we do not think - at least you owe this to this House - that this is all over: we do not make the Constitution only in a party or in a party direction. We are therefore always prepared, as we have already done in the Commission, to keep all the substantive amendments - only the substantive ones - to address the real issues that exist and there are many open ones. I do not have time to say here - and we will then address the issue - what this kind of Senate will mean with regard to the election of the President of the Republic, nor to focus on the various issues of rotation: there will never be a plenum from this point of view, because the regional councils change, there are elections. In addition, there are the problems of the guarantee bodies, guarantees, controls and balances, because this is what democratic constitutions are made of. On the other hand, we would not like to see our country's transition from parliamentary democracy to what some people call 'decision-making democracy', which is so exalted, the 'democracy of investiture', as I also like to say, in the sense that the citizens remain only to say who is the leader. And look, in a few years, we'll touch the devastating effects with our hands. That is all we want to say, so that someone can say that at least we have opposed each other, with dignity and pride, to defend our Constitutional Charter and the essence of constitutional principles. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u143	He's enlisted to speak Senator Gualdani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u144	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the reform debate on Part II of the Constitution has been going on for many years and the constitutionalists have long agreed on the need to overcome the perfect bicameralism in order to ensure a more streamlined procedure that does not extend to the decision-making techniques that often constitute obstacles to efficient responses to the real needs of the country. We have the extremely heavy task of seeking a solution, which is as far-sighted as possible, as should any response given by a Parliament in the process of modernising the rules on which the democratic game must be based in the coming years. I hope that in the search for this solution the oppositions can be constructively involved to improve some critical points raised and of vital importance. It certainly does not benefit the monstrous amount of amendments aimed at ostracizing any attempt to modernize for the preservation of old corporate logic. It is necessary until the end, Madam Minister, to find an agreement that involves the entire parliamentary arc in order to write together the fundamental norms of our Constitutional Charter. The game is basically played all around the question of the electiveity of the senators. Although the reform provides for the lack of trust between the Senate and the Executive, it would be essential to ensure, in indirect form, a form of popular election of senators, especially at a time when the senators themselves contribute to the legislative function, which is also constitutional in nature. And we are ready, as a whole Group of the People's Area, to seek a solution that is widely shared by the entire Parliament and the citizens. It cannot be denied that the best aspect of constitutional reform is the modification of Title V, which, since 2001, in its present form, has caused many problems: from the overlap of competences between the State and the Regions, to the greater complexity of the legal framework at national level in the areas subject to shared competence. This confusing regulatory framework has generated above all poor attractiveness of our country to investments, removing any possibility of development even in key sectors for the peninsula economy. Hence the need to eliminate the shared power, simplifying the relationship between the State and the Regions and avoiding the continuous recourse to the Constitutional Court. As far as the powers of the Senate are concerned, when we are debating the amendments, we should be very clear on what functions to assign to the Senate. If it is to be a Chamber of Representation of the Regions, it is impossible not to give it the role of liaison between the Regions and the European Union and between the State and the European Union itself. A quality assurance role should also be specified. The Senate should become the House in which public policies are assessed: that is, it should be equipped with a structure capable of measuring the effects of the actions of the public decision-makers, the results of the rules in their concrete implementation, in order to ensure that all the necessary corrective improvements can be made subsequently to avoid the unexpected effects of the public policy-makers. The Senate is and must remain an institution of excellence, not deprived of its extraordinary human resources. It is therefore also necessary to assess the extent to which it is involved in the legislative process. To create a plurality of procedures depending on the subject could become dangerous for the unclear limitation of the same. Therefore, in addition to the specific cases in which it exercises a shared legislative competence, it is necessary to clarify once and for all the incisiveness of the Senate in the procedure, through the different types of opinions that the same may and will have to issue on a measure. Otherwise, there is a risk of making even more cumbersome a process that actually needs to be streamlined and simplified. On the other hand, with regard to the role of the Commission, the possibility of requesting the approval of draft laws deemed essential for the implementation of the government programme and the codification in Constitution of the criteria emerged in jurisprudence for the adoption and conversion of decree-laws. In addition, the text now in the Senate for a new reading includes among its salient points the ones I am going to list. The preventive judgment of legitimacy on electoral laws, according to which the laws governing the election of members of the Chamber of Deputies and of the Senate of the Republic may be submitted, before their promulgation, to the preventive judgment of constitutional legitimacy by the Constitutional Court on a reasoned appeal lodged by at least a quarter of the members of the Chamber of Deputies or a third of the members of the Senate within ten days of the approval of the law. Until the decision of the Constitutional Court the deadline for the enactment of the law remains suspended. In the event of a declaration of constitutional illegitimacy, the law cannot be promulgated. Moreover, there is a strong protection of the rights of parliamentary minorities in the text. The Chamber Regulations guarantee the rights of parliamentary minorities. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies govern the statute of opposition. Another salient point of the reform is the constitutionalisation of a proactive referendum. In order to encourage the participation of citizens in the determination of public policies, the proposed and guiding popular referendums are introduced, as well as other forms of consultation, including social formations, the conditions and effects of which are laid down by a constitutional law. Article 99 of the Constitution currently governing the composition and functions of the National Economic and Labour Council is also deleted. In addition, all the norms relating to the Provinces are expelled from the text of Title V, bringing to an end the process of remodeling the constituent institutions of the Republic that began with the Delrio law last year. With regard to regional differentiated autonomy, the Regions will be able to see themselves devolved by the State "further forms and special conditions of autonomy" on justice of peace, education, active labour policies, vocational education and training, cultural goods and tourism, government of the territory, but on conditions that they are "in equilibrium between income and expenditure." In order to curb the indiscriminate expenditure of politics and to give a moral response to citizens, limits to the costs of regional policy are constitutionalised. A law of the Republic will determine the amounts payable to the presidents of the Regions and to the members of the regional bodies, which may not in any case exceed those payable to the mayors of the municipalities capital of the Region. Monetary transfers, which bear public finance charges, are prohibited in favour of the political groups of the Regional Councils. Further progress towards the full affirmation of gender equality is the prediction that the laws laying down the procedures for the election of the Chambers promote the balance between women and men in representation in Parliament. Clearly, of all the aspects that have now been addressed, there is certainly no denying perfectibility, but not the possibility of turning over a plant whose format has already been widely shared by this House and then by the House of Deputies. It is up to us in the next few days to guarantee the Senate exclusively the dignity of the High House, as it is. And give the feeling back to the citizens that this country is not at the mercy of defeatism and the inability to renew itself, but that it can give the appropriate answers to face the challenges that the future holds us. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u145	Senator Serra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u146	Madam President, if you're looking for trouble, you're in the right place, Elvis Presley said at one of his concerts. Now the right place seems to have become the Senate Chamber. No wild beasts, no deafening music, but words, words that kill the Italian Republic, yes. Long and patient work has characterized the creation of our Charter; studies, analysis and reflections. We are now moving towards a long and particularly dangerous amendment of the Constitutional Charter, the pillar of our own Italy State. This change, however, should not in any way impress us or scandalize us. Change must not in any way frighten us, but it must be a starting point for improvement. What we denounce, however, and what constitutionalists denounce is the arrogance and the way in which a group of people is acting against a text that outlines the limits, rights, principles and values of a modern society that lives. We are witnessing a clumsy action by those who do not, because the real one, the only one, belongs to the citizens, who are not heard in this House and in the Commissions. I see the complete, total and exhausting indifference in which we are acting, with deep and undeniable extraneousness, towards the human reality outside these palaces. The pain you feel, as a citizen, in observing this indifference of yours is devastating. Outside these palaces the needs and requirements are others, but nothing for those who continue to live and think they have the power. I wonder how you can continue to act with this total and unbearable indifference towards citizens. No commitment to support families that no longer manage to reach the middle of the month; small and medium-sized enterprises that close, exodus and pensioners mocked by the famous Fornero law, not to mention school and health care, in a whole that bounces from one promise to another, like the flying of a kite lost by a child. Nothing strikes or makes this majority reflect. The only need is to turn the Constitution upside down. Pretending to eliminate the perfect bicameralism, pretending to save money on the Senate and pretending to modify the Charter for the good of the State. Just pretend. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u147	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u148	Madam President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of eyes on us, on this House. First of all, there are the expectations of many fellow citizens, who are waiting to see that the institutions are finally able to rethink, get back into play, not close down or get sclerotized. Then there is the attention of European public opinion, which looks to Italy with new interest, because it is back to being dynamic, innovative and reformist. It is a Italy that in these difficult months has returned to growth in the economy and employment, which has become stable from precarious. By virtue of this reform, thanks to that flexibility clause in Europe that this Government has longed for, we will also be able to obtain additional resources to be used in the law of stability for investments for new industrial policies and for a universal measure against poverty, in short, to ensure that many manage to reach their feet at the end of a crisis. We know that this crisis is very hard: we have been living it for too long, it has jammed our democracy, it has struck social groups that are the heart of our society, removing protagonism and opportunities, relegating vital energies to the margins. Our task is to put them in a position to get back up and be able to make them do to those who are excluded today, because when a boy renounces to study it is very difficult for him to find the strength to start again; when he closes the door of a factory, it is very difficult for him to reopen. There is a very close link between the institutional crisis and the social crisis: if we do not want resentment to overwhelm the institutions, we must change radically and courageously, giving not only a voice, but also a chance to affect those who do not have it today. To do this, we need a strong, autonomous, effective and capable policy, because politics, if it is weak, is overwhelmed by the strength of finance and the economy; if it decides to remain weak, as it has been in recent years, it betrays itself, its mandate, the trust that has been given to us, which is the most precious asset that we have. In fact, inefficient institutions are not able to heal our evils, the social fractures, the territorial ones, the inequalities that block the country. Inefficient institutions are not able to fight the evil, the intrusiveness of the mafias; they can only justify selfishness, anti-politics, those on the lucrative ruin. We in the Group of the Democratic Party, on the other hand, have made it clear that we are at a decisive test for our party, for the Government that we strongly wanted, to demonstrate that we can give urgent answers, and in a short time to recover the too much time that has been lost. We are dealing not only with ourselves, but all of this House, a test of maturity and credibility. Are we able to make reforms? Are we able to change the country or will we stop again? Once again we will give up, will we be enemies of ourselves and Italy? Here, for us democrats, this reform means bringing about a project of change that is not born in these months, but is born more than twenty years ago with the Olive tree: a pact between politics and citizens to rewrite the Common Charter of the Republic in which to recognize itself. This is a reform that wants to secure and give new life to a parliamentarism that today is first of all hostage to its degenerations, inconclusions, paralysis, long delays, that we try to circumvent by resorting to confidence, to maximaments, to decrees of urgency, to delegated laws, too many times ending not with solving but with aggravating the crisis. Parliamentarianism, not only the parties, is today under attack by populism and by an insurgent nationalism; a danger that we thought defeated forever, and that instead re-emerges today. This was also the case in the 1930s, and we know how it ended: liberal democracies were overwhelmed by authoritarianism because they were weak, because they were unable to cope with the crisis. That is why it strikes me that in the debate on the reforms of recent months there has been a great deal of insistence on the lack of counterweights and guarantees in the relationship between the Government and Parliament, when we know that this is not the case. The biggest problem we have, the weak link of our institutional pluralism, is today the lack of stability of the government: this is the guarantee that is lacking and that serves our democracy. The reforms we are making are anchoring our system to a parliamentary government to be strengthened. This has reminded us in a very strong way, in a beautiful speech in the Committee on Institutional Affairs of the Senate, President Giorgio Napolitano; a speech in which they echoed the recent words of Leopoldo Elia, those that date back to the Constitution of Calamandrei. Here, the strengthening of the parliamentary government, and not the introduction of semi-presidency or strong premiered: formulas on which, even in the past, the center-left has also questioned. For this reason I am struck by the accusation that is being made to these reforms of authoritarianism, to the binomial between new electoral law and Senate reform: an unfounded and harmful accusation, first of all because Italicum restores legitimacy after ten years of Porcellum: restores colleges, and it will not be a law that will have more majority effects than those that had, for example, the so-called Mattarellum. This wrong assumption has led to an equally wrong request in the debate of these weeks: the direct election of the members of the Senate identical to that of the Members of Parliament. We cannot say, in fact, that we want to overcome the bicameralism of equality, to want two different Chambers, a politics and one representing the territorial institutions, and then to ask that the two compositions be equal, that they have the same legitimacy, that they are both an expression of the same popular will. They are terms in contradiction with each other and in contradiction with the spirit of a reform that provides that the Senate does not give confidence to the Government, which represents the autonomy, and for this reason it is a great and important innovation: because it restores function to municipalism, and above all to a regionalism that is experiencing a very serious crisis in recent years. Because it fulfils the wishes of the debate held in the constituent assembly; it responds to the changes and social changes of recent years and to the modification of Title V of Part II of the Constitution, avoiding numerous disputes between the State and the regions that have been there in the past; it responds to the need for local self-governments to participate in the construction of Community policies and in the elaboration of European law. It is good that a Senate of the autonomous bodies representing the territorial authorities is composed of advisers who are at the same time senators, chosen with a second degree election according to the indications of the citizens. It is good that this is written in the amendments tabled this morning by President Finocchiaro, which strengthen the dictates of the reform. The Democratic Party and the majority of the government will be united in this House, where I hope there will be a larger majority, as always in the area of reform. We will be united in the referendum that will take place in 2016, so that such an important reform will have a shared and broad consensus and will not be relegated to areas that are often indecipherable, such as the House or the talk shows. This government was born to make reforms and break a spell that every time prevented them. This is his strength, but if not, his irrecoverable weakness too. We are demonstrating that this legislature, which seemed to be lost and born under bad auspices, can really be a constituent and mark a historical watershed. Madam President, I am referring to the watershed to which we were referred in April 2013, at the time of the re-election of President Napolitano, and in January 2015, at the time of the election of President Mattarella. In this House we are demonstrating that we are working to put a jammed car back in motion, while there are those who, Senator Calderoli, mock this House and our fellow citizens by tabling 82 million amendments. [[Comments of the Senator Council]] This is how an important instrument such as obstructionism is funny. COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Stop it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Council, I'll call you back. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). The amendments are 83 million! Mr Verducci (PD). Unlike you, who are proving to be conservative, we are innovators and we feel strongly the urgency of change: it is our political background and the will of the vast majority of Italians. We are demonstrating with determination that Italy can succeed, because only those who believe in Italy can change it. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u149	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u150	Madam President, already during the debate at first reading of the measure I had the opportunity to express all my doubts and opposition to this draft Constitutional Reform Act which led me not to participate in the proceedings of this House, considering this reform absolutely not worthy of my vote against it. Today we are at the end of a debate that in two days has seen little constitutional law and a lot of politics. And what a policy! Above all, the policy of the huts, the policy of the meetings outside the Chamber, the policy of the agreements in order to arrive at the result of the word "reform" without considering the contents. We will see what further adjustments are proposed by the Internal Democratic Party corporis. From this point of view, I would like to ask the Presidency right now to be very punctual in compliance with the Rules on the possibility of out-of-date submission (which, for my knowledge, but I can be denied, is reserved only to the Government without the rapporteur), on the possibility that the senators have sufficient time to prepare the sub-amendments so that a real debate can take place on a new one of this kind. Because if it is true that, even at our own pressure, we seem to go towards a candidate of first degree, that is direct, of the senators, according to the reports of the news agencies and according to what is learned from the outside, this model of compromise is even worse than it is the original and can certainly lead to impossibility of application according to the dictates of this same norm. But we'll see. The truth is, it's the experience that speaks now. And I, unfortunately, have a long enough one, being one of the oldest among the attendees in this House. This is an honour to me, but it also requires some consideration. Experience has shown that it is absolutely impossible to hold a peaceful debate on the reform of the Constitution in this Parliament, when there are pressures on this reform that concern the governability of the country. In recent legislation, we have presented draft laws to this effect. We have also called, during this debate, for Parliament not to be able, through Article 138, to amend the Constitution in full or in large part. If we really need, as perhaps we do, a reform of the entire Constitution, especially for its second part, a constituent assembly elected with the proportional system, representative of all the social and political components of the country, is indispensable in a balanced way so that the proportions of the will of the citizens are truly respected. It is essential that this happens and that the Government governs without influencing the organic decisions, of law and of building the fundamental law of the State. I am an incurable optimist, and I think that we are still in time to do so, and that we would be able, with the expiry of the next national election, to elect a constituent Assembly which could actually draw up a new Charter, as was then done. It is useless, ladies and gentlemen, to remember the constituent Assembly and the constituent Fathers without even remembering the way and method with which that Charter was written: while it was governed, certainly in emergency, also with a Government of public health, which at the time saw united parties fundamentally conflicting by ideology, a constituent Assembly drew up the fundamental Charter of the State, without suffering the repercussions, the pressures, the blackmails, in political terms, of the action of government. Is it possible that we do not realize, ourselves, that we are always influenced in our decisions, even unconsciously, by a reflection that a decision on an article in the Constitution can have on government action? Or that we do not realize that we are influenced by the suggestion of a minister regarding a solution that can be closer to the feelings of the government than those of the country? We do not really want to use a mechanism, which is legitimately provided for in the Constitution, but which has been imagined, as I said in the illustration of my preliminary question of constitutionality, for adjustments to the Constitution and, above all, when the constituent Assembly had imagined an electoral law that provided for the pure proportional system. It is clear that electoral law is not part of the Constitution, but it is the most important ordinary law of reference of the Constitution. On the other hand, we are moving forward by a majority, which has been delegitimized. I am not saying that this majority is not entitled, because then many of them should not even be here, but it is delegitimized by a judgment of the Constitutional Court that said that this Parliament was elected by force, as far as the majority prizes are concerned, on the same constitutional principles. Having said that, let us also go to the substance of the matter. Someone accuses us of not voting for what we would have voted for (not myself, but here I speak for my group) last year. Someone put an expression on the mouth of our Premier, whom I called the last time Odoacre, but perhaps I could better define Brenno because, unfortunately, in this assembly there is no Furio Camillo in a position to combat it properly. I am referring to the double-compliant diction which has become usual in the media, both television and journalists, who perhaps before these last days did not even know about it. But what double conformance is a text like this? I did an experiment and tabled amendments: I had to draw up sixty-one amendments, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to bring back the text which the House has hesitated to put forward to the text which was originally hesitated by the Senate. But what double conformance is, when there are elements that are not only literal? Sixty-one are the literal elements, but the substantive ones are not numerically quantifiable in importance, such as that relating to the election of the Constitutional Court, of which the Senate is completely expropriated. This is to give examples. Let us not, therefore, cling to these small verbal or lexical considerations. The double conformity does not exist between this text and the previous one: there is a new text, on which we can say whether we agree or not, because we do not have the objective of reform for reform, but the objective of a good reform, with good content, that serves the country, not that it serves a part of the political class to take it completely. That today we are in opposition does not mean that we cannot be a majority in the future, so it could benefit us too, but it does not benefit the political balances of the country an elected Senate in this way (we will now see what are the changes that the majority, always within, has drawn up without any comparison with the opposition). I would like to say many other things, but I shall confine myself to one last point, although I believe, Madam President, that the time has not been so dramatic, after all, as the President of the Senate had proposed to us at the beginning of the sitting of the other day. I would like to mention a few speeches, which I have also followed very carefully from a personal point of view, because I believe that the colleagues who have done them are of great standing but at this point also of great naivety. Senators Compañera and Senator Quagliariello flew high, as they say, but what does it mean in this Chamber today, after this debate on these texts, after these considerations, to talk about Benedetto Croce or Einaudi or Orlando or Calamandrei? It means turning them maybe in the grave. To Senator Quagliariello, whom I always recognize a great lucidity of exposure, who rightly at the end of his speech asked the question: "Is my speech out of time?"I reply: no, Senator Quagliariello, his speech is out of time, because his party had the opportunity to affect some of the dynamics of this reform. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups]] And since we are in Italy, which is the home of the Cesarini area, if I am allowed the term sports in this assembly, - but we use so many - we are still not out of time: we still have the opportunity to reflect on the disaster that we are making of institutions and the Senate. And if the objective of Senator Quagliariello is - at least I think I understand some lines of politics, even if not explicit - to promote, immediately after the approval of the reform, a strong debate within the majority that could also lead to the crisis of government, I would like to tell him that if he does not do so immediately, then it will be very difficult to climb the walls of opportunism that his party has erected in defense of this majority and this Government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and LN-Aut Groups]] I would therefore also like to make a suggestion regarding the regulations, which we must never neglect in our political and procedural assessments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u151	I'm sending you to conclude, Senator D'Alì.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u152	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Madam President. If Senator Quagliariello awaits, as a panacea of all evils for his political part, an amendment of the Italicum, which will never happen, despite the promises - we have in fact understood the nature of those who make these promises, with broad hands, to the whole country - I would suggest that he obtain it before the second resolution of the bill here in the Senate, because otherwise he will never get it. So, among the high arguments, sometimes I would suggest him to go down a little bit more with his feet on the ground, because you have to go down also to the level of the foxes, who are depraving the henhouse and putting them a nice trap. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Candiani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u153	He's enlisted to speak Senator Tonini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u154	Madam President, my role as Senator Secretary of Parliament has imposed some discipline on me in the presence of the House during these four days of debate, which I have heard almost entirely. While listening to the speeches of my fellow Members, and particularly those of the opposition senators, or at least those who oppose this reform, some of whom have been very critical and severe, I have tried to ask myself to try to sum up the sense of reform, which we are supporting in this tough and long parliamentary debate. So it came to my mind a phrase that one of my teachers, one of the great rectors of the Catholic University of Milan, Giuseppe Lazzati - who was also an important constituent Father, having been part of the constituent Assembly - loved to repeat as a compass, for anyone who wanted to engage in reforms and change. He referred both to reforms within the church and, of course, to reforms in civil society, institutions and politics. It was a phrase of Saint Ambrose, the great founding bishop of the diocese of Milan, who said: "Nova semper quaerere et parta guardare". At the same time, we must desire, ask, want intensely, new things, change, without being afraid of them, and, at the same time, leave to guard, that is, to guard carefully, almost with jealousy, the great things that we have received from the past. I believe that when you approach something as important as the Constitution you have to have this double feeling: one verse must not be afraid of change, rather search for it, look for the new, because history walks and you have to walk with history and sometimes even chase it and, on the other, you have to guard the important things of the past. If, therefore, we are trying to see, at the heart, the meaning of this reform of ours, it is because we are looking for innovation and at the same time want to preserve something important. The important thing we want to preserve from the second part of the Constitution - the first is not in question - is the form of parliamentary government. After all this is also the red thread that accompanies the action of the center-left Italian, from the years of the Olive tree to today. We have sometimes defended, even harshly, particularly in the confrontation with the centre-right, the form of parliamentary government, which the constituents have given us. This is the "parta" that we want to guard. [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] LUCIDES (M5S). We wouldn't miss that, too! [[Call the president back.]] There are other systems which, legitimately, are based on other ideas: there is a form of presidential or semi-presidency government, which has its merits and which is certainly in the core of democratic systems. We have defended, and we also do so with the reform under consideration, the form of parliamentary government, that is, the idea that the Government must be an expression of Parliament and must find in Parliament the moment of its constitutional legitimacy, the place where it finds confidence, which knows that it can be revoked at any time. [[Comments of the Divine Senator.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u155	Senator, please don't interrupt. You weren't interrupted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u156	TONINI (PD). On the other side, however, there is the nova semper quaerere. At the same time we must, that is, be able to read the signs of the times, of our time, and the main one is that citizens want to be protagonists of the choice of who governs them. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). With this reform? TONINI (PD). They want to be directly protagonists of the choice of those who govern them and do not tolerate, as it were, mediation of a kind that is a gap with the direct legitimacy of those who govern. [[Comments of the Divine Senator.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u157	Divine Senator, don't let him call you back for the second time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u158	TONINI (PD). I listened for four days in a row and would like to have my ten minutes to say mine. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's right. You are allowed, as others have been allowed. TONINI (PD). Many of the interventions of the senators that I have listened to patiently and diligently posed the following problem: this government is not legitimized directly by the popular vote. They are right, but at the same time they say a blasphemy from the constitutional point of view, because from the point of view of the 1948 Constitution, no government is elected by voters, as governments find their legitimacy in the trust of Parliament. However, it is true and sacred that in our time there is a desire for direct legitimization of governments by citizens and voters. In fact, we all say that Tsipras was elected, but the other day Tsipras was elected only as a Member, but the President of the Greek Republic would never have dreamed of giving office to a different personality, because Tsipras won the election by reaching 34-35 per cent and, thanks to the majority prize that also provides for that system, reaches the absolute majority of the seats. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Let's say that Cameron governs the United Kingdom, he is British Prime Minister, because the British wanted him; of course, the British elected him a member of his college, but it is certain that Cameron, being the leader of the Conservative Party that won the election, governs Great Britain very legitimately. Mrs Merkel is not directly elected by the Germans, but by the Bundestag; however, we all say that she is an expression of the German people. NUGNES (M5S). Who says that? TONINI (PD). In 2013 we did not have a government elected by the citizens, legitimized directly by the citizens, because our system, as it is designed today, while it is able to resolve and preserve what needs to be preserved, that is, the parliamentary form, is not able to deal with this new question of direct legitimacy that there is from the citizens. This is the contradiction in which we live. The reform we are debating is intended to dissolve this contradiction, because one way we are maintaining the system of parliamentary democracy, given that the President of the Council whom we will have with the reform will still need the confidence of the House; he will have no new power compared to what the Constitution assigns to the President of the Council today. At the same time, the combined arrangement of reform of bicameralism (so overcoming the bicameralism of equality and the need that the Senate also gives confidence) and majority electoral law will allow citizens to be their protagonists of the legitimacy of the government. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is the synthesis that we are trying to build. Of course, this summary may not be shared; this is entirely legitimate, because it is an absolutely controversial issue. However, this choice, the choice of this synthesis, this mediation and - let me also say - this compromise between both fundamental values (the centrality of Parliament and the need for clear popular legitimacy), this synthesis, this mediation, this compromise is the prevailing model in Europe, is the way in which European democracies work. Each in its own way, but all are variations on this theme, unique and fundamental. There are some exceptions, for example the French system, which is absolutely part of the democracies. We in the centre-left have long chosen to be in this fundamental current of European thinking and of the European political system. We have also applied this compromise to the election of senators. If you think about it, we did the same thing, through a debate even bitter among ourselves, in which we were able to listen to each other, also to learn something from each other and in the end we arrived at a compromise between two fundamental values for the Senate. For one verse we chose a model of the Senate. We could also choose the monocameral model and suppress the Senate; I heard many people say that rather then it would have been better to close the Senate. Rather than synthesizing, it is better to take the extreme route. No, we have considered that all the great European nations are bicameral nations, which are based on a bicameral Parliament; we want to overcome the bicameralism of equality, but we want to be within the family of bicameral systems. The second Chamber must therefore have a precise function, if it wants to be something useful and important. This specific function is to be the chamber of representation of territorial institutions. If it wants to be a Chamber of representation of territorial institutions and bring the regional legislator to a direct confrontation in Parliament with the national legislator, it must be elected by the regional councils. In fact, if it does not have the legitimacy of who is elected by citizens to govern the Regions, how can it represent the Regions themselves? This is a real thing, it's the truth that was inside the draft that got here. However, some of our colleagues have raised an equally real problem: be careful not to close the issue in the Chamber of the Regional Council, where there are certainly legitimate people, who, however, could resolve the issue of representation in Parliament in an internal mediation, which excludes or at least appears to exclude citizens. That is the compromise that has been found. Like the British Prime Minister or the German Chancellor or the Head of the Greek Government or tomorrow, the President of the Italian Council will not be directly elected by the people, but will have a clear legitimacy through a system that produces governability and produces a majority, just as the senators will not be directly elected by the citizens, but will be elected by the regional councils through a system that will give them a full democratic legitimacy. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] So we will have the advantage of having senators who will have two legitimacys behind them together, that of the people who chose them and that of the Regional Council that elected them. I believe that this is the way of nova semper quaerere et parta guardare. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Tonini. TONINI (PD). I shall conclude with one final point. We had a great challenge ahead of us and I think we were able to face it. We now have a tough and tough debate ahead of us in the next few days. I believe that if we can see in our debate this basic idea that we have before us, we will be able to give our debate a constructive and proactive turn, able to bring our citizens back, as we have to do, to our institutions. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Chiavaroli and Barani. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u159	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u160	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u161	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u163	[[Brusio]] I ask the whole House to allow Senator Airola to make his speech without too much noise. AIROLA (M5S). Thank you, Madam President, also because I want to point out an issue that mainly concerns the Democratic Party and the workers in the cultural sector, dear friends. Just as Franceschini shot zero on the workers of the Colosseum, in Turin, in court, a worker unfairly fired from the REAR - the cooperative that was headed by Mauro Laus, president of the Piedmont Regional Council and who paid the workers, look a bit, four euros per hour - asked the judge to condemn the Museum of the cinema. It's an old story I've told you about many times. This worker, Federico Altieri, paid like the other workers four euros per hour, was unfairly fired; indeed, he was intimidated - not me to say it, but the fourth section of the Turin court - because he protested and complained. The Democratic Party should also be ethically and morally responsible for certain issues. I cannot speak to my colleagues and I speak to you, Mr President, who was a trade unionist, if I am not mistaken. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. For 34 years; he's right. AIROLA (M5S). Certain issues should be at the heart of the political agenda and one should not reward a gentleman who continues to be in politics: he has now resigned from the REAR, but his society continues to provide low-cost workers. Federico Altieri is one of many, who wrote to Ken Loach, to whom the Museum of Cinema in 2012 had to give an award. Ken Loach refused to go to Turin, finding the treatment of those workers shameful. So, President, before the various Franceschini say that the measure is full, before you shout at the image damage of Italy, know that the damage to the image of Italy is being done by your cooperatives, your politicians who ran those cooperatives and the unions, who sign contracts-head, apart from the unitary unions of base (USB) who fought to defend these workers. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] We ask for this story to end because Federico Altieri had cashed in the trust of Ken Loach, as well as Ettore Scola, who left the prize on the desk of Mayor Fassino who, with his promises as a sailor, had said that he would heal the matter. It is useless for you to laugh, colleagues of the Democratic Party, because it is a dramatic story that falls on the workers' skin. It's a good thing you're on the left, because maybe you'd shoot him instead. [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Bencini and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u164	Ouch, ouch, senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u165	AIROLA (M5S). This has got to stop. I've been suing you for years since 2012. Above all, the download of the Democratic Party and its Government must end on the workers of the culture sector, including those of the Colosseum. It is unacceptable that a worker, treated with poverty, should protest to have the arrears that are due to him and should be so muddled. This, I repeat, has to stop. Thank you. Now go watch the game. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u166	Please, each one avoid provoking the other.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u167	[[Warm protests from Senator Airola.]] Please, Senator Airola, you've already spoken.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u170	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, colleagues and, above all, citizens, yesterday was a historic day; I repeat, yesterday was a historic day. A wall fell, a taboo fell. It has infiltrated a crack, which will become more and more massive, on one of those great powers that decisively influence everyday life, the banks. After years of silence, omerta and collusion, finally a umpteenth Pandora's box, that of the maliciousness of bank behavior, has been discovered. Yesterday the Finance Guard finally entered the offices of the various offices of the People's Bank of Vicenza. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] It is a historic date; it took seven years of appeals, of complaints, of questions, which have bounced on the rubber wall of politics and of a judiciary too conniving with politics and with industrial lobbying. But now we've arrived from the 5 Star Movement. [[Comments from the PD Group]] that we are not part of this rubber wall; and when the reports of consumers and cons arrive, we welcome them and act accordingly. Yesterday was a historic day. I think that many of you have not realized this at all; many of us have realized this and you will see it in the coming months. The connivance between banking and politics will end. Of course it would end much sooner if you helped us finish it sooner, but in recent years politics has always remained in absolute silence. There are two cases: either you did not know the situation, and therefore you are technically ignored and technically you do not deserve the post of Government; or you knew it, and if you knew it and stayed silent for years I leave the conclusions to the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u171	I hope it's not a threat to anyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u174	[[Comments from the M5S Group.]] All those who have signed up to speak at the end of the sitting are entitled to do so. Please, Senator D'Anna. D'ANNA (AL-A). Madam President, I would like to thank you for this clarification that this House does not need to be made, because this House must never be at the mercy of those who make their way of being intolerant, unfair and vocabulary. I would never have imagined that in this House those who have to defend it, who are seated where you are now, could, by infindancy, by political calculation, for any instrumental reason, abandon not only the authority that comes from the power to prevent certain behaviors, certain language and certain attitudes, but that they could not understand that, whenever you indulge, it is not that you raise the benches but lower the chair. And when the Vice Presidents of the Senate go on television or in this same Chamber they make complaints of commodimonia, they forget Article 67 of the Constitution that - I remind myself, because this Constitution is called to every step of the way when it suits them - does not provide mandate constraints to the senators. [[Comments of Senator Cappelletti.]] VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. It's Article 68! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't interrupt. D'ANNA (AL-A). It could also be Article 66, or 68, or 69, but we understand each other. When the Constitution frees the Member of Parliament from the mandate, it is not for a scream, but because it is characteristic of all parliamentary democracies that the Member, as elected by the people and proposed by whomever he wants, should not subjugate the powers and logic of the party which, as the word itself says, is a party. Conversely, where this constraint is lacking, we have the nomenclatures of the hegemony party and almost always of an ethical and tyrant state. If anyone who must defend this prerogative, who must protect and represent it, translates himself into offense, slander and insult the prerogative itself, obviously cannot represent us and cannot represent this institution. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. He knows we're at the end of the session. D'ANNA (AL-A). I'll finish right away. So, Madam President, if we in here, at every step of the way, in order to defend our goodness - which is not at the mercy of anyone, not even of four scalzacani who could cover the laticlavium by mere adventure - we must do the barefoot, we are not. We expect those who have the responsibility to represent and protect our rights to enforce them. We will demand the resignation of Vice President Gasparri. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm interrupting you, Senator. You know what the procedures are; the issue has already been raised. I invite you to conclude. D'ANNA (AL-A). Let me say this: it is no longer possible, one cannot continue to make the parliamentary dialectic pass the illusion, the accusation, the offense, that reverberates out of these rooms and becomes the object, on the web, of a real defamatory campaign. Then of the two one: if there is someone who has entered here - basically because, Hegel said, what is real is rational - to delegitimize these institutions or to represent them as something that belongs to the decadence of the democratic system and that must be replaced by abstract forms of assembly or other brainic amenities, which even break into weak minds, then it is not about D'Anna or Amoruso: it is about defending a principle, which is that of parliamentary democracy. We, in fact, are an expression of this concept and not of ourselves. [[Applause from the AL-A Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u175	I believe that we all agree on the respect and dignity of each one.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u176	I would remind everyone that, since we are talking at the end of the sitting, the time available is three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u177	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u178	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u179	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to bring to the attention of the House a situation which occurred a few days ago in the province of Pavia, where I reside and where I know administrators, people and operators who work daily in contact with the institutions and those who want to enter legally in our country. [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] Yes, Mirabelli, complain! A few days ago, a social cooperative asked Mortara football to be able to use the Mortara stadium free of charge. The request that was made at Mortara football was also motivated by pressure from the prefecture. As a result, Mortara football, in front of the word "prefecture" has pulled back and granted, mistakenly, the use of the stadium of Mortara, in order to be able to do the training and carry out the activities, to a football team or such made by illegal migrants, people who at this moment do not have Italian citizenship. MIRABELLI (PD). They're asylum seekers! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Migrants are fine; asylum seekers and illegal immigrants know that they do not match. CENTINAIO (LN-Aut)... Migrants, illegal immigrants, asylum seekers... use the term you want but for me they are not Italian. Too bad that exists in Mortara, as in all the other municipalities of Italy, a convention that binds the relations between the football team and the municipality. As a result, the Municipality grants annually - there is this special convention - the use of the structure of the Mortara stadium to the team in order to be able to play the youth championships and championships to which Mortara football is registered. Among other things, the parents of the children who play on the Mortara team pay an annual tuition to send their children. The mayor Facchinotti, when he learns - not from the Mortara football team or the Faber cooperative, but from the local newspaper - the constitution of this team and that the same will use, without being authorized, the Morara stadium, immediately summons the Mortara football and communicates the impossibility, by Mortara, since this convention exists, to use the stadium to play the people we talked about before. I don't see anything wrong with that, President. A mayor enforces the law, a convention. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] There's nothing wrong with it, nothing illegal, nothing racist. Mayor Facchinotti had a convention respected, so he did his duty as mayor, as all the mayors of Italy should do, from Bolzano to Lampedusa. What happened was absurd because, at a time when Mayor Facchinotti declared, among other things, that he did not know who these people are and not even what they are doing, he was absolutely right because a few days before - and whoever lives in the province of Pavia knows - in the local newspaper, Mr. Garavaglia, president of the Faber cooperative, declared that only five percent of his guests would obtain refugee status and that the others were illegal (words quoted by Mr. Garavaglia, and not by Gian Marco Centinario or the Province of Pavese). So Mr. Facchinotti, Mayor of Mortara, simply enforces the law. The end of the world is unleashed by those who do not know that there are laws to be enforced (alas for them); a hallucinating ending that some fellow senators present a parliamentary question to the Minister, including those who laughed before. The question asks the Minister why the use of the field has been revoked. Well, the use of the field has never been revoked - let people know before they speak - rather it has never been authorized. Then we talk about a clearly discriminatory and racist decision. Then, this attack on the part of those who make politics towards a mayor who does his work I send him back, also because generally when a mayor of my party makes a chapel - I say the word, President - I am the first to say and to recognize that you can also make a mistake, but in this case Mr. Facchinotti, mayor of Mortara, is everything except a discriminatory and racist person. I think that the colleagues of the Democratic Party, so talkative in television broadcasts, should be informed before talking about this person, because Mr. Facchinotti, mayor of Mortara, former city council member of the culture of the Province of Pavia, is a mild man, a person of culture not only appreciated by the militants of the League and its citizens but also by those militants of the Democratic Party who at this moment tore their clothes to go after news and above all that they should have informed the senators, who so much say and so much do but do not know Mr. Facchinotti. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). So I think before you talk, Mr. Mirabelli and colleagues, before you talk shit, you should know. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u180	No, please, Senator Centinario, this is not good.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u183	AMORUSO (AL-A). Madam President, my speech is in a personal capacity for what has happened in this House today. Unfortunately, I think that what has happened in this House today marks a sad and shameful page, even more so because, as was mentioned earlier, who was responsible for it, for the office it holds, should be the one who, on the contrary, protects the dignity of this House. Beyond the political considerations that have been made this morning - on which I do not lag behind because there will be other ways and other ways to compare - in that intervention of Senator Gasparri very heavy sentences have been used against me and, even worse, towards my family, a family, among other things, very small. I am an only child, my mother unfortunately died fifteen days ago, so I don't think she can be included in this type of assessment, and I have two young children. I don't see why I would involve a family in political matters. Unfortunately, however, it was done and it was the result of things said in a television broadcast yesterday morning (which we invite the Presidency to find). At the end of the transmission "Agorà" the same words and concepts were used, accompanied by very symbolic gestures. Well, I believe that what happened this morning is serious and perhaps it should have been redempted in a stronger way, preventing Senator Gasparri from broadening his political criticism also to personal facts, to people or even to those who are not in this House (and would have been more dignified for him). Senator D'Anna recalled the freedom that everyone has in this House, a freedom of parliament, for which many have fought. There is a teaching of a person whom Gasparri quoted and whom I do not quote out of modesty, who was a great teacher of mine who taught me one thing more than all, that of being a free man: I have never been the property of anyone, not even of Senator Gasparri. If, therefore, there is something that I consider to be emphasized today, it is essentially the evilness, anger, resentment and bad faith that there have been in that intervention. He knows very well what are the reasons for my suffering, but convinced decision. My conscience is serene, I do not need and there is no need to threaten to come to my country to say something, because it can come when and how it wants: we are a hospitable city and we all host; we had the largest asylum in Italy, with over 4,000 mentally ill, let alone if we can not be used to hosting someone who comes to say nonsense in our country! [[Applause from the AL-A Group.]] Allow me, however, Madam President: I want and I would like to, because this House...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u184	I understand your bitterness, but you don't translate it to other people.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u185	AMORUSO (AL-A). No, absolutely, Madam President, I just said that we are hospitable. I would like you to pass on a specific request from me to the President. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure - which says that a senator, when, in the course of a debate, he is accused of facts that damage his good repute, can ask the President to appoint a Commission that investigates and judges on the basis of that accusation - I strongly ask the President to set up that Commission, in order to verify the basis of the accusations that have been made to my person and, even worse, to my family. It is a disgrace that only an institutional level can place in its proper dimension. I also ask that, as a result of the acquisition of the data of "Agorà" both the relevant acts and those of today's intervention be transmitted immediately to the prosecutor of the Republic, so that, even there, something that can bring the truth back to what it really is will be properly opened up. [[Applause from the AL-Ae PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u186	I will not fail to tell the President of the Senate what you have said and I know that it has already been communicated today.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u187	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-510.ana.u188	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 24 September, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.20 p.m.
