ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 2 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u4	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u8	The next item is the resolution on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft constitutional law of popular initiative No 1969. I would remind you that there is a debate on this request in which no more than one speaker will be able to speak for each parliamentary group and for no more than ten minutes. Senator Crimes has the floor to explain the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u9	Mr President, from December to today, 200,000 Italian citizens have signed the proposal for a draft law of popular initiative which provides for a referendum on the permanence of the euro, indeed - to be precise - for the introduction of a sovereign national currency alternative to the euro. The referendum should have been made before entering the euro, while the decision on entry was taken by the governments without any consultation of the citizens. In recent years, many people have spent their time saying that we needed to get out of the euro - we have heard it in the electoral proclamations, in the political forums and in the talk shows - but never before has a concrete proposal arrived, which is to refer to a referendum of leadership on the permanence in the euro. It can be done; it can be done with a constitutional law; it can be done as it was done in 1989, when the Italian people were called upon to comment on the question which required the European Parliament to draw up a draft European Constitution to be submitted for ratification by the bodies of the Member States of the Community. That project, nothing. A finger has been granted, that is to say to build this draft Constitution; it had to build a union of peoples, while the only thing you have been able to achieve is the union of coins. Colleagues, I would now like to use a metaphor. Imagine that you have to do a car race and that each driver is assigned the same car. The cars have the same power and speed, but, on the one hand, there are those who run on an asphalted and straight highway, and, on the other, those who run on a distorted road, full of curves and obstacles. The drivers are the states, while the same cars represent the euro, the single currency; it is a pity that the roads are the real economies of each country, which are different, and you cannot run with the same car on different roads. This is what is happening in Europe. The European Union has failed: there is no point in hiding it from us and pretending that everything is okay. The Europe of those who have conceived it - a community of people, solidarity between States and equal rights and duties - has all failed. The entry into the euro and the hegemony of banks and finance have transformed the community of people into a European Union that is the union of banks and finance and not already of peoples. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The propaganda that you have done over the years (that the euro and the single currency are essential and that without the euro our economy would have collapsed) has failed and many are realizing it. The economy has collapsed and this has happened with the euro. That is a fact and no one can say that everything is fine because the euro has been introduced and the economy - I repeat - is in crisis and has collapsed. Not only in Greece but also in Austria, in the total silence of the media, Europeans and Italians, in a single week almost 300,000 signatures were collected in support of a popular petition, not only to get out of the euro but even to get out of the European Union; 100,000 were enough, they collected in a week more than double with the word alone and a one minute pass on state television. The Austrian Parliament is now obliged to discuss the proposal, which it may reject, but it is not unlikely that a referendum, as provided for in their constitution, will not be granted in the face of such a popular consensus. There is a growing need in Europe for a debate on the permanence of the single currency, the real virtues or defects, the opportunity to bow to the wishes of the banks by sacrificing national sovereignty; a debate coming from citizens rather than from those who govern. Whoever governs us finds nothing better to do than to suppress in silence this need for confrontation or arm the penniversoli in order to spread terror and dismay. Terror and dismay are the ones you have campaigned for Greece in these last days. I have been to Athens with my colleagues and I have not seen any delusions: cash was not lacking, goods are not lacking; there is the crisis, but it is the same as there is in Italy, neither more nor less. Don't think Greece is worse than Italy, only we hide it under a carpet. Sunday evening we were in Syntagma Square, Athens, invaded by citizens in celebration. All the squares in Greece were celebrating. They didn't celebrate the victory of a team in the championship, in the cup or in the World Cup (the only reason why in Italy maybe you go to the square with so much enthusiasm); no, they celebrated democracy. They celebrated because the government they had democratically elected had turned to them, to the citizens, to the people, to know their will. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and had done so with a referendum on austerity imposed by Europe, that austerity that you imposed on us in Italy by the various Fornero laws, by Article 81 and by all the linear cuts, that austerity that you imposed on us without consulting the citizens. Greece has given the whole world a lesson that will be difficult to forget. In the motherland of democracy, an Executive chosen by the people (not like ours who was identified by you) asked the people what to do. The best synthesis of the concept of democracy is precisely that: the government of the people. As we have always been used to in Italy, politicians and media, you don't pay to have terrified citizens with apocalyptic scenarios, they have gone after winners and won. Yeah, who won in Greece? Someone wonders if Tsipras won or anyone else. No, the Greek people won, they won democracy, they won national sovereignty, they won the pride of a people who does not want to be governed by other peoples. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] All things that we see as garlic for vampires. The referendums we have are not taken into account at all. Twenty years ago we voted for the abolition of the funding of the parties and you put it back as electoral refunds; we voted in favour of public water and against nuclear power, but the privatization of water in various provinces and municipalities continues to exist and perhaps soon we will be discussing nuclear power stations again. In the rest of the world, people are beginning to respect the wishes of their citizens. In Greece the people raised their heads by saying "no" to austerity policies. Even in Italy we can hold a referendum on the euro, we can do what we might have done in the last century: inform and ask the citizens if they want to continue to submit to the austerity of the single currency; or Get rid of it. The draft Constitutional Act No. 1269, of popular initiative, is filed. Parliament must now discuss this. Today we are voting to speed up this bill. There's no alibi left. Who wants to stop this austerity policy now follows us. Maybe we won't get there tomorrow, maybe we won't get there in a week or a month, but the hope of celebrating democracy in Italy is stronger than ever. Get over it, gentlemen. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And you, who will vote against, because I already know that you will vote against this proposal, do not allow yourselves to go around the streets or in conferences to say that citizens' participation must be enhanced. Don't be so brave. Don't be so brave. Don't go and praise Tsipras, don't go and praise Greece, which gives the word to the people. No! Rather vote 'yes' for this bill to be discussed as soon as possible and also in Italy to give citizens the opportunity to express themselves. If you are certain that there is no alternative to the euro you should not be afraid to confront the citizens and ask them what they think of it; to give them correct information and all the tools to decide, to make the people decide, also because we remember that we have already had one of German domination and we did not like it at all. Power to the people and not to the banks. I repeat: power to the people and not to the banks! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u12	CAMPANELLA (Misto-ILC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with a large delegation of colleagues we have seen the outcome of the referendum in Greece directly. We were not alone; others, not invited, had followed us and their participation was manifestly less welcome. Today I hear a proposal for a constitutional law that should allow a referendum. We fully agree with the principle that people should be heard on these issues. The problem is that the issues are misplaced, and this is because the Greek Government, in full agreement with its people, has not asked to come out of the euro, but to revisit the Treaties and their application methods because they are both deadly for both the Greek people and for all the peoples of the European Union; for all the peoples, both those of the rich countries and those of the least rich countries of the Union. What is before our eyes is a contrast between the financial elites and the peoples, that these rules suffer until hunger, and not only in Greece, colleagues, even in our country. However, putting the problem now, as I see it, of a referendum on the pure and simple euro seems to me more like a political stance that seeks to benefit from the successes of others rather than a serious assessment of the problem and a clarification of the question to be asked to voters. In fact, we agree that voters should be questioned, but the question should not go back to the person who makes it, but must aim to understand what the people really want to do. The same reasoning applies to the proposal which envisages holding a referendum on the Treaties - on which we would agree - but which puts a fantastic differentiation between the territories that respect balance of the budget and the others, as if this differentiation were not contingent at a certain time. Colleagues, all of Italy is ill today; there are places in Italy where it is worse; unfortunately my Region is among them, and this is certainly not a merit for the Democratic Party, but there are places where you are ill anyway because there is no work, and there governs the League, or the People of Freedom (or what is called in its different articulations). Therefore, we must approach the problem as a European people, such as that part of the European people who live in Italy. This is the approach to be taken and must be aimed at the well-being of our peoples, of the Italian people, and not at the benefit, in terms of consensus, of this or that party organization. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senators Bignami and De Pin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u15	MARAN (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote against this proposal, and I shall go to the substance. The referendum to ask citizens for opinion on the exit from the single currency was one of the points of the election program of the 5 Star Movement for the Europeans of 2014, without particular success then, and today dusted up on the occasion of the Greek tragedy; hence a clearly presumptuous character. We'll vote against... [[Senator Crimi's comments.]] I'll say whatever I want! [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Mr President, allow me to finish the speech, rather than begin it, since I have listened diligently to the other Members.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u16	Colleagues, let Mr Maran speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u17	MARAN (PD). I say that we will vote against, even if we do not hide the difficulties and the fact that, in the aftermath of the Greek referendum, the scenario is worrying. The Greek tragedy has become a boring game of poker, with so much openness in the dark, bluff, counterbluff; and assuming that even this time you can avoid Grexit, the risk is that it is yet another low profile solution, perhaps to find yourself in the same situation in some time. The United Kingdom has set out on the road to "Brexit" and, given the ideology of the new Polish Premier, it is also possible to leave Poland, which was to be the next candidate for the annexation to the single currency and the main testimonial of European successes, such as Mariano Rajoy's Spain, where Podemos' statement says a lot about the popularity of economic policies imposed by Europe, regardless of its economic successes. We do not hide that Europe as a whole is still immersed in the aftermath of a financial crisis, of American origin, but that the United States seems to have left behind a long time ago. Not to mention the inability to formulate a common strategy in terms of foreign policy or energy, which should also represent common European interests. Of course there are difficulties and problems that we do not hide, but we continue to think that the reasons for the European Union are even stronger today than yesterday. With the reversal of world growth sources and the success of major nations, such as China, India or the United States, a broken Europe in so many small countries would have no chance. We live, in all European countries, a historic phase of dramatic external challenges. Everything changes around us. Structural changes are reshaping not only Italian politics, but the vast world. When historians, in a hundred years, look at the early years of this century, the most important event will probably not be the financial crisis that has gripped the Western world for years. The most important story will be what the Americans call the rise of the rest of the world: the rise of the rest of the world, growth, the awakening of countries like China, India, Brazil, Russia, South Africa, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and I could continue on the list. It is the largest mass exit from poverty in world history. Most of our problems arise here. Thirty years ago, when a region like mine was struggling with the reconstruction of the Friuli earthquake, a city like Shenzhen did not yet exist; today it has almost 9 million inhabitants, more or less the population of the five districts of New York, and many of its residents were born in the countryside, in misery, and today they have a standard of living roughly equivalent to that of Brooklyn. In a single generation, a fishing village has become the fourth port in the world, which enlivens, alone, more than they manage to do together Los Angeles and Long Beach, the two major American ports. Within only thirty years, some 300 million Chinese have gone from blackest misery to economic standards that can stand up to the western ones: an unprecedented enterprise in world history. It is a growth that is more visible in Asia, but is not confined to Asia: more than thirty African countries (two thirds of the continent) have grown in recent years at a rate above 4% per annum. It is obvious that the international system built after World War II has become virtually unrecognizable in the face of this enormous change. It is not written anywhere, however, that decline, decadence, a destiny of less regional and global power, is an inevitable outcome for Europe and for our country. Technology, the role of immigration, improvements in public health, rules that encourage greater participation of women in the economy, are just some of the measures that could change the trajectory of current trends, and it will be crucial once again about the outcome of the leadership role, because leaders and their ideas matter, but it comes to the eye that our future is necessarily linked to that of our European partners. It is a question of fully taking the lesson of the eurozone crisis as a consequence of the incomplete and contradictory path taken by the Union after Maastricht. What is needed is not only a monetary policy, but a fiscal, budgetary and macroeconomic policy that is truly European. In short, it is towards a more federal, more integrated, stronger Europe in its capacity to speak and act in unison that is inevitable and, we believe, indispensable to move. We want to move forward and not go back. The things that Europe should do are quite obvious. Taking advantage of the British referendum, the European Union must find a new form of coexistence between countries that are only interested in a free trade area and those who want more integration, so much so as to share the currency. The current institutional model, with all MEPs voting on policies that affect only one part, i.e. the countries of the euro, makes no sense. It is not a monetary union based on very complicated rules that no one understands, entrusted to the management of a supposedly technical body, such as the Commission, but which actually decides in a discretionary way. In order to keep the monetary area together, it certainly requires greater convergence, greater transfer of sovereignty. We repeat this: greater transfer of sovereignty. But this must be accompanied by a strengthening of the democratic legitimacy of European decision-making centres and by solidarity mechanisms and risk distribution between member countries. This means strengthening the European Parliament vis-à-vis the Council and the Commission on the management of the budget and European economic policy, but it also means providing for the top figures of European governance, such as the President of the Union, to be directly elected by all European citizens, not only on the one hand. It is no coincidence that Draghi himself does not lose the opportunity to say that monetary policy is in itself insufficient. That is what we should discuss and talk about. But the impression is that rather than facing a difficult debate between themselves and with their own public opinions, European governments and many of the European parties prefer not to do anything and lull themselves into the illusion that the ECB's new monetary policy keeps them out of trouble. But the choice of Europe and Greece is not the one between the euro and the drachma and the choice of Italy is not the one between the euro and the lira, between democracy and the autocracy, but between small sacrifices distributed among all the European countries and enormous sacrifices for the Greek people today and for us tomorrow. I want to recall a beautiful book published in recent years, on the occasion of the centenary of World War I: "I sleepwalkers" by Christopher Clark, which focuses on the analysis of the reasons that led the war then. What's most striking in Clark's analysis is that the statesmen didn't even understand why they entered the war. Each of them, including Germans, felt attacked and thought he was fighting a purely defensive war. A disconcerting picture emerges of statesmen imprisoned by their paranoia, who have fun bluffing and constantly playing up in the hope that the opponent will not react. Even then, each of the states had some valid reason and, at the same time, everyone was wrong that they could not find a peaceful solution to the crisis caused by the Sarajevo bombing. As then, it is not only governments that drag us down (not then, as today), but also politics, common political culture, pride, nationalism, the things we heard of earlier. Even the people stumble lost, often disinformed, frightened, fantasizing national enclosures erected against the world economy; they believe they challenge governments, but they are in reality the accomplices, led and as always led by some cheat willing to throw the pital on Montecitorio and willing to invoke the radiant days. Not by chance, one of the architects of the single currency, Helmut Kohl, stressed at the beginning of the Greek crisis that the euro had nothing less to do with the possibility of preventing war. The evil spirits of the past have not been banned once and for all, but they can always come back. This means that Europe remains a question of war and peace and that the aspiration for peace remains the driving force behind European integration. "Europe is our future" - Kohl insisted - "There is no alternative to Europe and we have every reason to be confident that our Europe will emerge strengthened by the current crisis, if we want it to." He added: "Let us not be misled." That is why we shall also vote against it, so that we do not be misled. We don't want to be misled, but we want to move forward and not go back. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Marino Luigi and Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u20	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to announce the North League's vote in favour of this request, and I would also like to stress one aspect that has probably been overlooked by those who have spoken before me. This is a bill and, like all draft laws, can be amended, improved and improved in its content. What today, however, cannot be denied is the right of the people to express themselves and we will also repeat it later. [[Applause from Senator Crosio]] That is what is at the heart of the debate today, not whether the euro should be printed on paper of one colour or another; it is the right of a people to choose their own destiny. On this basis, our vote will be in favour of questioning this bill, which can then be amended and analysed in its content and substance.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u23	BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, the subject that is being put this morning, with the proposal that the 5 Star Movement has presented to the House, arises at the outcome of a referendum which, although it is to be minimized, also in an attempt to maintain a responsible approach to the events that in these days can determine the end or strengthening of Europe, not only shakes the consciences of all of us, but also obliges us to ask ourselves on what path today can be taken to really achieve the result that Mr Maran has indicated to us in his speech with such lucidity and with such intelligent wisdom of the history of the people, which, shaken by the often dramatic events, sometimes predictable, is measured and compared with its past and its own future. It is precisely the future that we must talk about, but we cannot do so unless we first understand the mistakes we have made. You see, Senator Maran, in his very interesting and beautiful speech there is no word of self-criticism about that political and administrative failure that Europe has so far constituted. We must safeguard that great value and the merits that Europe has had, the main one of which is certainly the guarantee - we European peoples - of peace for years and decades, even if on some occasions we have seen a Europe unable to defend not only its own borders, but also the possibility within itself to regulate in a modern and secular sense dramatic issues that have gone through it. I remember, for example, the war in Bosnia, in the heart of a Europe which was expanding and which, on the other hand, also showed its failure in that case, precisely on the front of peace and national, internal and international security. But the biggest failure is undoubtedly what Europe has seen to form on a series of economic accessions, up to the great financial adhesion, without, however, accompanying this action with that just and correct respect for the principle on which peoples decide not only of their destiny, but also of their organization and the exceptions and devolutions of powers, which have a heavy impact on the lives of the countries and peoples, cannot be done this way, without discussing it, without those great reforms, with those great contents, truly incarcend in the history and life of those peoples. We note this today. Of course the democratic principle is valid, for which the expression of the Greek people is as important as the expression of the other peoples; even the Italian people, in the face of that referendum, what would have voted, in your opinion, after many years of forcing this country into a very strict accounting policy - and that is certainly right - but without preventing the dramatic effects of cuts and cuts to that national and internal cohesion in Europe that we have not been able to guarantee? The Greek affair will also be dealt with and perhaps better tomorrow in the intervention that Minister Padoan will make to this House and it will be very important to understand how really from the outcome of this referendum we want to come back to invest on the ability of the peoples of Europe to guarantee this Europe, to rebuild it. Today, however, the issue that is being raised obliges us to take note of the fact that we have to ask ourselves, the time has come when we have to assume the responsibility of being able to say or being able to say: that is enough, either Europe changes or this Europe no longer has any sense of existence. For this reason it is important to reflect on the proposal of the 5 Star Movement and we must seize it in order to prevent those exploitations and nationalisms that are mentioned in many parts from taking over. It is not with our defense of the vile vacuum that we will prevent radicalism and nationalism that cross all European countries from taking over, because those peoples - as Senator Maran said - are lost and often misinformed; however, our information, the one from whom Europe loves it, defends it and wants to keep it alive in its balance and in its vital force, which is political before monetary and financial, we will not defend it if we continue to defend only the positions of the great financial balances of the world. As my colleague Mr Maran said, economic systems are changing the connotations of our economic balance and hence the fact that the strength of the economy changes the politics and the feeling of the peoples. However, we cannot vote in favour of this proposal, because it opens a dangerous, difficult road for those who know how to start and do not know how to end. In a sense of responsibility, I believe that we must say no to this proposal, but that at the same time we must grasp its importance, as it has done, in opening a strong debate on the value of democracy which today is one of its most difficult trials: the Europe that we must build is not only that of peace, but that of true democracy. [[Applause from the CRI and FI-PdL XVII Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u26	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I believe that today we cannot vote in favour of this proposal to speed up the process of a bill that does not resolve, but rather complicates the problems with regard to relations between the Mediterranean countries (even if they wish to indicate them in this way) and the rest of Europe. It is not by running away from the complex that has been created with a long process of integration of the European Union, it is not by fleeing from the currency, with all the unknowns that such a flight might have, that we will solve the problems, but we as a political part should certainly be careful. I would like to remind colleagues who listen to me that we have had to give up the government of the country for a strong tension that the Berlusconi government had rightly created in the context of relations between European countries for the lack of consideration that was given in this area to the needs of countries like ours. It would be easy to ride now the populist wave that comes from a sudden referendary experience of another country, even minimal in the context of our Union, and that in reality did not have this as an argument. Beyond the many simplifications that even authoritative characters (also government) have given on the net and the trivializations of the Greek referendum, in fact it did not provide for the exit from the euro, but a very simple thing and if I had been a Greek citizen I would certainly have voted: it asked to express itself on the decision to pay the debts, or not. If in any family the father of the family communicated that he had a certain pile of debts and asked if he thought he had to pay them or not, I think most of the members of that nucleus would say no. These debts had accumulated because funding and subsidies had been requested to change the country's economic structure, but then its commitments had not been honoured. Following that populist drift today we would create, even considering the political message that should come out of this House, an absolutely negative and worrying image that could further accentuate the financial tensions that the Greek referendum has already created (we have seen what the market reaction has been). If a country usually authoritative (except for some government défaillance) like ours, if a country certainly important (considered its presence in the G7, i.e. among the most industrialized countries in the world) had to question, even with a simple unbinding opening to the examination of a draft law referendum on the topic euro or not euro, I believe that the political and financial repercussions on the markets would be absolutely negative for our country. We all agree that a thorough reflection should be carried out, but on other issues: tax harmonisation, for example; on social security harmonisation in the euro area; on the greater integration of a whole series of economic dynamics that at the moment certainly penalize our country or, however, make different the internal systems that should instead be more and more similar to each other in order to offer equal opportunities for investment and economic initiative to entrepreneurs since now there continue to exist, especially on the fiscal level, huge divergences whereby the same European context and the foreign countries that look to Europe no longer invest in Italy but rather in other countries that make up the European Union. We should measure ourselves on this. These are the reasons why we should find a positive solution to strengthening a European economy environment that should be much stronger, less fragmented and less fragrant, and thus able to face the great challenges that the whole world, with its continental blocs, poses to our economy and to the European economy. I repeat, we believe that today, too, the small political signal that should come from a decision by the House to speed up the examination of this bill would be an irresponsible signal that could have far more serious consequences and perhaps today, on the emotional wave, we do not consider what it really is: the activation of an article in our Rules of Procedure. When initiatives of this kind are taken, we must look above all at the outside, what happens or what can happen on the outside. I would also like to say to my colleagues who propose that the urgent procedure could be a political success for you, but from a regulatory point of view, it could in fact be simply a joke. I would remind you that in September 2013 we voted on a number of urgent procedures, Mr President: I would like to remind you of this and bring it to the attention of the Presidency. Mr Filippi, who is here before me, is well aware that his draft law, together with one of mine, was then recognized as an emergency procedure. Well, since September 2013, the Presidency has not scheduled that bill in the Chamber, when the Rules of Procedure, in the event of an urgent procedure being decided by the House, provide for a timetable within one month of the decision. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to remind you of this incident as well and to tell your colleagues that a regulatory fact which they rightly use as a political rider could be much more devastating than it would be to go on with this drift. Let us not talk about how irresponsible the decision to leave the euro would be without first verifying all the possible consequences. I think I can interpret the thinking of all my Group's colleagues in saying that I fully agree with a thorough debate on the reasons for staying within the euro, especially by a Mediterranean country that has other objectives than those of the continental axis which for now continues to dominate in Europe. But that is not a speech to be considered: it is not by escaping that we will be exempt from our responsibility for a greater and better presence in the European debate and therefore the affirmation of our aspirations, our legitimate hopes and our growth goals, if anything, in a European context from which we cannot escape. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u28	For what, Senator? Senator Bonfrisco has already spoken for her Group. FALANGA (CRI). I would like to speak in dissent from my Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. There is no dissent in a limited debate. FALANGA (CRI). If I cannot declare it, should I confine it only to the vote? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, exactly. FALANGA (CRI). All right, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u29	I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft Constitutional Law No 1969, made by Senator Crimi. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u30	The next item is the resolution on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft constitutional law of popular initiative No 544. I would remind you that there is a debate on this request in which no more than one speaker will be able to speak for each parliamentary group and for no more than ten minutes. Senator Candiani has the floor to illustrate the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u31	Mr President, the outcome of the previous vote is the probable prelude to what will happen at the next vote. In explaining the reason why, as the Lega Nord Group, we have called for the urgency procedure for constitutional bill No 544, I cannot help but point out some inconsistencies with regard to the vote that has just ended, starting with the fact that we are talking about a bill of popular initiative, which tens of thousands of citizens signed up to in 2012; we must now proceed to the request for urgent procedure, because the consideration that has been given to them is equal to that of a waste paper. This is offensive to democracy and the responsibility to which the Senate Assembly is referred is that of confronting the democratic right of citizens to have answers on a constitutional bill of popular initiative. Well, Mr President, what we are asking for is that it is quickly included in the agenda of this House's work is the proposal for a constitutional law, for a referendum of popular orientation on the subject of the European Union. Mr President, we recall that on 11 May 1989 a referendum was held on the basis of constitutional law on the granting of a constituent mandate to the future European Parliament, which asked the people to give an opinion on the need to transform the European Community into an effective Union. Over the years, Mr President, the European Union has gradually extended its power of meddling in the internal decisions of each sovereign state far beyond the actual powers authorized by the Treaties and more than once under blackmail not to grant the necessary credit lines to address the financial problems of individual countries. The Union, together with the International Monetary Fund, has conditioned the purely political choices of the various democratically elected governments, not comparing themselves within these countries with the peoples, except, as happened a few days ago, in the case of Greece. This growing power of the institutions of the European Union, strengthened through successive founding treaties, has repeatedly clashed with the popular vote, as we have said, which everywhere has submitted to the opinion the verification of the Treaties through referendums, and has received sound rejections. In our country we have never been able to have a real popular confrontation on these issues, as on the institutional architecture and powers of the European Union, because with too much superficiality it has always been cleared all saying that this is forbidden by the Italian Constitution. This is a forecast which, when it was conceived, could not take into account the substantial exceptional nature of the Treaties of the European Union, the situation which would have occurred and which can still be easily integrated with ad hoc constitutional laws (such as those of which we propose urgency) or significant forms of popular involvement (precisely, the referendum). The Treaties of the European Union, in fact, increasingly form an external body to the system of the Union, with agreements that intervene between States, but not as members of the Union, but as subjects of international law. I'll add an inscription. Attention: we are at the dawn of other international agreements, such as TTIP, from which citizens will be expelled, as to the ability to issue a word, if the agreements will not be submitted to referendums. And at this moment, at this stage, this is not acceptable. This too must be remembered. For a long time now, in Parliament and in politics, a careful reflection has been called for on the desirability of further transfers of national sovereignty not covered by guarantees on how and under what conditions such sovereignty will be transferred. It is now necessary to ensure a popular confrontation, in the forms provided for by the Constitution, before proceeding to further delegations of powers and powers to supranational institutions such as to question the sovereignty of the country itself. It has long been the time, if we want to give this Europe a future, to get out of the dogmatic patterns of the existing institutions and, if anything, to reason on a European political project that surpasses the national states, today in crisis and, in fact, emptied of all sovereignty. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Nothing will change for the better until we are serious about working for a Europe of peoples and regions, based on people and their cultures and identities, rather than on the aridity of the market and finance and not on work. Because today in Europe we are talking about finance, and not work! Mr President, today Europe is at a crossroads: either we are moving towards a true integration of the central nucleus of the countries that form it (i.e. towards a true federal state of Europe and what we have long called the Europe of the peoples), or towards a rapid decline, with a recessive maneuver behind the other. In 1989 it was decided, by constitutional law, to allow a referendum to give a mandate to the European Parliament to implement the transformation of the European Communities into an effective Union, with a government responsible for Parliament. On the same occasion the European Parliament was entrusted with the task of drawing up a draft European Constitution to be submitted directly to the ratification of the competent bodies of the Member States. So we wanted to create a Europe that had a constitution and not just treaties, that was federal and not merely a association of states. Since all this has failed, we do not understand, Mr President, how the people have never been called upon to speak on these issues, as if they had given a blank delegation, without being able to decide on issues such as the entry into the euro (with the relative acceptance of an injurious exchange rate), rather than on the fiscal compact or on the European stability mechanism. These are decisions that will influence and condition our economic policy for years and on which future generations will be unable to speak. Mr President, I come to the conclusion of my speech. This constitutional bill of popular initiative, which - let us remember - has been signed by tens of thousands of citizens, has been in existence since 2012, awaiting discussion in Parliament. It is not a dogmatic act, but a starting point, ladies and gentlemen, and we cannot call it irresponsible to put on the agenda a proposal for a popular initiative law, even if it can be changed in its content. For example, even though we at the time saw in the principle of budgetary balance a point of comparison with other European states, we are now here to say that its introduction into the Constitution is not good. However, it must be discussed calmly and freely. It is paradoxical, Mr President, that we are at the dawn of a new transition of constitutional revision in this House without the courage to speak and face a constitutional bill that wants to give voice to citizens on choices that are going over our heads and - I add - that the Government wants to liquidate with a speech that will be made tomorrow by Minister Padoan, providing only five minutes of intervention for each parliamentary group. This is the real scandal: shutting the citizens' mouths, preventing a referendum and liquidating what happened in Greece by providing five minutes of intervention per Group! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bignami]] Mr President, we are asking for the statement of urgency on this constitutional bill. Incidentally, I refer to the fundamental question that is intended to be put to referendum: do you think that the European Parliament should draft a draft revision of the current European Treaties (Treatise on the European Union and Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union)? That is the crux of our request. Do you think that this constitutional bill of popular initiative should be put to the vote urgently? This is what citizens have been asking us since 2012. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u32	Colleagues, five more members are expected to speak. I would ask everyone to limit the speaking time, because I remember that at 11 am the information of Minister Alfano is expected to be carried out.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u35	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I will also be very quick because my colleague Mr Campanella spoke in the debate just now, whose arguments on the subject are shared by us. Senator Campanella explained the reasons why the Senators of the Left Group Ecology and Freedom, but also a large part of the Mixed Group, did not participate in the vote before, nor do they intend to do so for this. The intention is obviously to point out a point of distance from both these two proposals (which, from our point of view, have an element of attention on the method, we cannot share in the substance), and from the fact that this debate does not deserve an element of deepening. For these reasons, too, I would urge colleagues to avoid some instrumental action. This is a very serious debate. What happened in Greece last Sunday is probably a watershed compared to the history of this continent and the European Union. It would therefore deserve attention from the national Parliament, and in particular from all the Italian political forces, and not from exploitation. If, on the other hand, we race to try to hang the hat, even making a great deal of confusion and risking to say paradoxically speculative things (by our President-in-Office of the Council who speaks out of a referendum between the euro and the drachma). [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] , without having understood that in Greece everything was discussed except that of that, up to a proposal such as the one examined a moment ago by the 5 Star Movement or the one discussed by the League now) we do not grasp in any way the real point, in our opinion, of what would serve our continent today. Our continent would need a great debate on democracy, because Europe clearly started badly. However, we denounce it, together with the movements against globalisation, for fifteen years and it is a pity that for fifteen years we have been left alone to denounce that Europe would end up in this way. Just yesterday, we tabled a motion calling for a revision of the Treaties. We believe that it is not even a taboo to change the Constitution on this point. However, as we know, this Parliament has, by a very large majority, amended Article 81 of the Constitution by doing something that has clearly been completely wrong over the years that followed: the classic excess of zeal that other European countries have avoided. We believe that all the instruments of democracy need to be encouraged, but we insist that these two proposals are in great dissension on the substance of the matter. They see us in dissension because we think - I insist - that this is not the path that helps the peoples of Europe today. The effort made by the Greek Government during these weeks, in these days, what it is still doing during these hours, the effort made by Syriza, that is, the attempt to say that there is a third way between the Europeanism of austerity, which is the one experienced during these years, and the hypothesis instead that we must go back to nationalism that honestly does not solve the problem, seems frankly very debased by these two questions. Therefore, we want to hold this debate as far away from us as possible, considering it very instrumental and wrong and therefore we do not participate in the vote. We haven't done this before and we don't do it now. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u38	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of this constitutional bill and we will vote in favour of it because we believe that every time a question is put to the electoral body, that makes it a protagonist in the choices that involve the electoral body itself at first instance, we have respect for democracy. For us, democracy is to share and therefore to share in the choices. This first. But this cannot fail to assess the subject matter of the referendum, which arises from a proposal which is at least contradictory and paradoxical. In fact, Mr Candiani, we understand that we want to remove, in words, Europe from the domination of very undemocratic institutions and very little respect for the will of the people and that so far they have had the best of their ability, but it is these institutions that have imposed, for example, a balanced budget. Therefore, founding a Europe limited to peoples and territories that respect balance of budget is something strong. We accept this because - I repeat - it means making a decision, and if we are to be called to vote on the matter, our response will only be negative, because it is pure folly to state the balance of the budget when it has not been understood why we have gone into debt. An account is to make debts for clientelism and partyocracy, another account is to spend on investments that will produce, over the medium to long term, returns, profitability. And when investments are made with own money they do not produce debt, but if you make with money that others give you they are debt that must be returned, but that can be returned because those investments are aimed, precisely, at spending in important sectors that will guarantee income, profits. Colleagues, I would also like to appeal to those who have preceded me. I understand that this is a moment of great confusion and great uncertainty, when everyone wants to make their voices heard in particular, but I am also convinced that this is a time when we all have to assume strong responsibilities. I am not, and not only as a senator elected by the 5 Star Movement in the Senate of the Italian Republic; I am not, first of all, European, I am not Italian, to read, to note that, immediately after the referendum, Tsipras had talks on the one hand with Putin, on the other with Mario Draghi. Mario Draghi who? How can Mario Draghi represent the peoples of Europe? In what sense has he been legitimated to maintain contacts and talks that can diplomatically or politically resolve this crisis? What democratic and official investiture has Mario Draghi ever obtained from the institutions? Has there ever been an involvement of the peoples in the choice of these Eurotecnocrats or Eurobancoburocrats? This is the Europe of finance against which other colleagues in this Senate also say they want to fight. Then, beyond the controversy in this House, let us assume all our responsibilities. Here we ask the people to be able to say theirs; we recover this lack of knowledge, because so far the peoples have been held back in some way in the possibility of saying theirs from a conditioning implemented through the control of information, through the monopoly of propaganda, because the information is overcapped in low propaganda that some oligarchies wanted and obtained. Let us free ourselves, please, and let us regain the sense of democracy: what has happened in Greece, and not only in Athens, will become a lesson for all. A democracy is truly such when it calls for confirmation, ratification, but also denial, of its electoral body. Let's always remember that. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u41	CHITI (PD). Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists makes a negative assessment of the request for a statement of urgency, but it does so by taking into account the merits of the constitutional bill which would like to hold a referendum on the direction of the re-foundation of the European Union. I will make some critical remarks, but they are respectful; I do not share them, but I respect the commitment of some tens of thousands of citizens who have put in place an instrument of participation, and for me participation is a value. For this reason, without infiction, it is correct to say when there are different evaluations. I would like to say to Senator Candiani that the serious problem is not to give negative answers, if you think differently: the serious problem is that from 2012 to 2015 there have been no negative evaluations. That is why I insist that in the regulations, if it cannot be done in the constitutional reform, there should be precise limits within which Parliament should respond to popular initiatives. It is enough to read the title thoroughly in order to verify the contradictory nature of the questions that would be asked to the citizens' decision. The democratic and federal European Union based on peoples and regions is therefore one of more in Europe, as is necessary, and we would be led to an enthusiasm for a different political approach, including by the League, than positions strongly focused on national states, for example supported by the alliance which sees a leader like Marine Le Pen at its European reference point. However, this approach is immediately denied in two fundamental respects. The criticism is not about the way in which things are managed, but about the extension of powers transferred to the European institutions, which are contained in the same report and then in the article. The report states that the European Union has gradually extended its power of meddling in the internal decisions of each sovereign state, using as blackmail not granting credit lines. So, over-skills, out of the rules: not rules to review, but even will. I'm gonna wait. The aim is to redefine the parameters for membership of the euro area, limiting it to the territories that have achieved the balance between revenue and expenditure in their budget. Here the proposal for a law shows serious ambiguity. It is certain that the single currency is not enough to create supranational democracy, and we see it, but it is equally certain that the United States of Europe will not be able to exist if it is based on a heterogeneous pluralism of currencies. More. The bill speaks of territories, not nations. So the logic behind this proposal is not the reform of the national states, their change, their profound transformation, to make them protagonists and part of a supranational European democracy. No, the path is the one, disguised at best, of a push to fragmentation: for example, Lombardy in the euro area, but also its most disadvantaged mountain territories or not? And Lazio, but I could mention Tuscany or Umbria, couldn't I? Then I could remind the friends of the League of an old proverb: the wolf loses his hair, but not the vice. Italy in the euro swept away all desires for secession of the territories of a country. Now you try to re-launch them by re-presenting old defeats as new hypotheses? It seems to me that this is a serious element of dissent, because this is not the way for a federal Europe, but a project for disintegration and perhaps for the return to State Regions that existed in 1800 and cannot be there in 2015. I would add that the referendum would include a criterion for the result, i.e. the majority of the valid votes cast, which is contrary, as well as to the merit as I have tried to say, to the method envisaged in the same constitutional reform that is under discussion. In the Constitutional People's Initiative Act referred to as the previous one, the referendum which took place in 1989, apart from the clear difference between two instruments of citizen participation, i.e. the one evoked and implemented and that which would be invented, there is also a profound diversity in the matter under consultation and decision-making. In 1989 there was a clear and precise question to the citizens: do you want to give the European Parliament the mandate to transform the European Community into an effective Union? Here we are in the presence, as I have tried to point out, of proposals which are confusing, ambiguous and contradictory. It is not the way to make people count, but to make, at best, some propaganda. That is why our vote can only be against. This debate - and I shall conclude, Mr President - has, in my opinion, a positive aspect, which we must grasp. And this will be even clearer tomorrow, with Mr Padoan's hearing and the debate on the situation in Greece and, above all, on the confrontation that the Greek affair opens for Europe, on the post referendum and on the prospects. There are many of us who are concerned, all those who are aware that this 21st century will not have architects, among the protagonists of the history of the world, the European national states, no one excluded. So today we see - at least I see - that the European Union does not have the future that the founding fathers had dreamed of, nor a present consistent with the fact that it is the political construction of peace and well-being that is greater and more significant that has been achieved. Today there is a lack of that foundation called solidarity and that primacy called politics, without which there is no cohesion of feeling as citizens of a larger and more common homeland, which does not erase the different identities, nor the national stories, which are deeper than organizations in individual states, and which wants to unite respecting them, enhancing them and making them a positive push. What is lacking is common values, which are placed in brackets under the bureaucratic primacy of procedures and budgetary constraints alone. What is lacking is an impetus forward in the construction of a supranational European democracy, which calls for priority to be given to politics. In the meantime, it must be said that the Community method must prevail over European competences and that the intergovernmental method which is based precisely on the role of the national States must be archived. So, ladies and gentlemen, without paying any attention to it, we are sanctioning those within the crisis who exceed 3% of the deficit compared to gross domestic product. There is a problem with Greece, which accounts for 2% of European GDP. And it is not yet said a word - as the United Nations organizations have said - about the fact that yesterday a Parliament of a European country decided to build new barbed wire walls to separate Hungary from Serbia [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Pagnoncelli]] , and has revoked, by amending, that right to asylum which is a constituent point of the European Union. If we do not intervene with determination towards these countries, then really our future risks being very dark. And it is clear that it is not a question of expelling Hungary or, in other respects, Greece from the Union, but it is a question of imposing - because this means being or not being a supranational democracy - respect for the values underlying our common belonging to the European homeland. I think - and I have really finished - that Italy could and should play a role in helping to boost the European Union. I think that Parliament should urge the Government and try to build a unified approach, as broad as possible as convergence, to change, renew and relaunch the Union. But you see, Mr President, I am also putting it to your attention: we are discussing national issues and everyone has the right, majority and opposition, to play their part; we are discussing decrees and procedures and we are taking days, but we will certainly not have time to discuss in this House the document of the five Presidents, which is a text on the future and the completion of monetary and political union which is totally unsatisfactory and inadequate. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It brings back to our attention the intergovernmental method based on the national states that is not working, the diarchy between France and Germany that no longer works to build the European Union, because we are at another stage. If we want to make Parliament equal to these challenges, these are the times and spaces we need to find for our confrontation. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u44	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Forza Italia will vote in favour of the proposal to declare the urgency of this constitutional bill and will do so in full coherence with what we have said and done. Europe is born on a great dream and after the nightmare of the Second World War. The founding fathers of Europe - we remember in particular Alcide De Gasperi, Robert Schuman and Konrad Adenauer - had much greater ambitions than this Europe of the euro, parameters and bureaucracies, of course that is not all, but that is what we see today. And that dream was drawn not only by them, but also by the greatest statesman of the last century, Winston Churchill, who also saw in Europe the need to create an area of democracy and freedom as a guarantee of peace. For this reason, we must go beyond the present condition in which the European Union is located, which - let us remember - is not endowed with a Constitution and I recall that, during the second Berlusconi Government, the Charter was signed in Rome, which gave the start to the drafting of a European Constitution, which was then rejected - look at it a bit - by the referendums of France and the Netherlands, by that same France which in 1954 rejected the project of a European defence Community, which would give Europe greater dignity, greater strength and greater cohesion. We, on the other hand, want to go beyond these hiccups and we want Europe to really have a Constitution, in line with the 1989 consultative referendum and the short programme of the People of Freedom (in which Forza Italia had merged in 2013, when we presented ourselves at the last elections, and by virtue of which we are now here), which provided for the direct popular election of the President of the European Commission and the extension of the legislative power of the European Parliament, alongside other projects for Europe. I recall the words of President Berlusconi, just a few days ago, before the Greek referendum: Europe, in the face of the crisis, has proved to be resoundingly inadequate and, instead of offering hope for recovery and development, has merely proposed stupidly rigid rules, which have worsened the difficulties of the most fragile economies. Europe needs to be perceived for what it has to be: an area of freedom, democracy and new opportunities for the economy and not as a series of constraints, rigidities and, above all, not as an area where bureaucracy is so indirect that it risks not being such anymore. For this reason it is appropriate to make Italians express themselves, in order to give more strength to the Italian Government, which should have already worked in this direction, because in the last legislature, right here in the Senate, a bipartisan motion was passed for the direct election of the President of the European Commission, on which, however, the last three governments did nothing and, above all, nothing got.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u47	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Mr President, I would like to make a very brief speech, but I would like to take advantage of the opportunities offered by my colleagues in the League. First of all, we must not forget that at this moment we are in the midst of a parable which risks seeing, in the consent of our peoples, the consensus on the most important political project that has characterized modernity, namely the European Union. It is a very serious problem and the outcome of the Greek referendum is not only - as has been said - a split between the euro and the drachma, but it is much more: for those who voted no, but also for those who voted yes, it is now implicit a resistance and mistrust towards the democratic deficit that characterizes the lives of the European institutions today. And if there's anything I'm interested in, it's the very life of those institutions, which have been able to guarantee peace and development to our continental context. This is what we risk losing today. I look, then, benevolently at the request of my colleagues in the League and I will vote for it, while acknowledging the truth of some of Mr Chiti's statements, when he says that there are deep contradictions in the text, if only for the request of federal Europe (i.e. more Europe) that badly matches the political line of associating with the neo-nationalism of Marine Le Pen. Inside that text, however, and the demand for a bill of popular initiative, there is perhaps the main road to recompose, even at the political level, a fundamental need for this part of the hemicycle. There will be no direction for Italy in Europe unless there is a shared project of the Italian right-centre on issues concerning the European Union and the destiny of Europe. In other words, I believe that the request of my colleagues in the North League is a way of opening a debate in this part of the Chamber on the direction we intend to take on the fate of Europe. I do not want to give up any of my beliefs about what more Europe means and how more Europe can result in a benefit to our peoples. But I also believe that this is the way forward, so that today the convictions of the Euroconvicts do not appear merely to be the convictions of the Eurocretins. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV) and LN-Aut.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u50	BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, I would like to speak quickly and briefly to express our conviction in the proposal put forward this morning by Senator Candiani. In the context of this very short but intense debate, which has taken place in the last two hours in the Senate, I would just like to add a few comments on the failure of a Europe which, under the banner of popularism and socialism, puts us today in front of the important and significant research of a third way, which is not to divide us on assistantism, as it invites us to do also the outcome of a referendum particularly supported by the Syriza representatives. It is not new assistance that we need. And it is not that rigor, which in past years has had a great function of its own, which today can help us in the effort to build the Europe that our fathers have dreamed of and which we risk destroying, if we do not keep it safe from a risk. Mr Chiti, who rightly pointed out how pernicious the idea of Europe is for the wall that is rising in Hungary, I would also point out that the idea of an indiscriminate reception has been and is still pernicious to anyone, who is testing not only our borders (and we are exactly there), but even the heart of Europe. I would therefore like to add to the reflection on the accession to the revision of the Treaties, the revision of the rules of being together, those rules which in Europe are interpreting Cameron's conservatives so well as to be referred to as a model to be followed, a path to be taken from several quarters. We who are its representatives in this Italian Parliament claim that we are proud to have called into question the failure not only of that Euroburocracy (starting from the ECB down), which we do not recognise and is not recognized by the peoples of Europe, but also of those political lines adopted for many years, which have caused the head to be hidden under the sand in the conviction of building a Europe and instead have undermined it almost to the point of destroying it. As I said before, against nationalism there is not the defense of an empty bin, but the assumption of responsibilities that must first start from the parliaments, starting from the European Parliament and those of the countries of the European Union, together with their peoples. There is no way and no future for peoples disconnected from their parliaments. This is the challenge that invites us to carry out the constitutional bill that Senator Candiani has illustrated for his calendarization and on which we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u51	I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft constitutional law No. 544, made by Senator Candiani. It's not approved. I still have the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u54	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, yesterday I asked the President of the Senate to clarify the timing. We called for the hearing of Mr Alfano, who is not yet here in the Chamber, at the meeting of the group leaders, and also called for adequate time to allow for further discussion and discussion of the issues. If the five minutes allocated to each group are confirmed, we believe this to be scandalous. It is scandalous that everything is limited to a five-minute speech per Group without the possibility of tabling resolutions, as it is not a question of the Minister's communications but of an information, moreover on the eve of a similar scenario tomorrow in the presence of Minister Padoan. I therefore repeat the request of the Lega Nord Group and Autonomous Group to convene a meeting of the Presidents of the parliamentary groups to review the work programme. I would remind you, however, that it is the Presidency's power to change the time available, without consulting the Conference of Leaders. That no answers have been given at all, it is still scandalous.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u55	We will try not to be so strict, but always within the framework of the indications given by the Presidency. Colleagues, having no news of the Minister yet, I suspend the sitting until 11:12 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.02 p.m. and resumed at 11.12 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u56	The next item is the report by the Minister for the Interior on the CARA of Mineo and on immigration. After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have five minutes available.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u57	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u59	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I take advantage of the presence in the Chamber of the Minister of the Interior to inform the House that news has come that the fifty-one migrants in Ventimiglia are about to be cleared - a very badly managed situation - who have been on the rocks for a month. All we can do is steal the citizens' money, possibly keeping them at the CARA of Mineo, or battling them and banging them somewhere else. This is the Democratic Party. This is Alfano. And now you're gonna start telling us about Mineo's CARA. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u60	Senator Airola, this is not an intervention on the order of business. Communications are on the CARA of Mineo and on immigration, so I believe that the topic can also be the subject of the information that is about to take place. Mr Albano (PD). You're a liar, Airola! What are you saying about Ventimiglia? AIROLA (M5S). I'm giving you the news! You are a PD, so a democratic party, and beat the immigrants! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, before we even start? Don't worry! I'm gonna do it for you in music today. I'm gonna call you back. Let us hear what the Minister has to say, that we have called and that I urge more punctuality next time. I call the Minister for the Interior, Mr Alfano.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's information, for which I have immediately made sure that I am fully prepared to report, concerns an issue which I have only accidentally touched on in Parliament under two other circumstances, the last of which was in the Senate's Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in the context of my hearing on immigration in general. Well, on that occasion I said that we would never allow the reception of immigrants, an area in which we boast a long tradition of humanitarian solidarity, to ever become a hunting ground for businessmen and speculators. I have also said - and I repeat - that the prefects would be alongside the President of the National Anti-corruption Authority, in order to bring back on track the full legality and correctness of the contractual events in the smell of corruption. In fact, it is precisely what happened for the two events of Rome and Mineo, where the prefects of Rome and Catania, giving immediate follow-up to the proposals of President Cantone, respectively provided for the appointment of commissioners, as provided for in Article 32 of Decree-Law No 90 of 2014. The complexity of the facts requires, as is natural, maximum clarity and exhibition order. I will therefore come to mark the temporal passages of this story, articulating them in three distinct moments. The first comes to correspond to the declaration of the state of emergency and ends at the end of 2012. The second represents the transition to an ordinary management, therefore characterized by characteristics of transitoryness, and closes at the end of 2013. Finally, the third is characterized by the contract and administrative remedies put in place by the National Anti-corruption Authority and by the prefects at its side, as well as by the intervention of the judiciary. I will therefore begin to reconstruct the beginnings of this affair from its first moment, that is, the phase of the emergency. It all began in 2011, with the declaration of the state of emergency adopted by the Berlusconi Government for the management of the exceptional migratory flows caused by the Arab Spring. At the head of the Viminale was Minister Roberto Maroni. They were arranged, in sequence: the requisition in use of a large residence located in the municipality of Mineo; its destination to the needs of reception of asylum seekers; the entrusting of the management of the center to the President of the regional province of Catania, as an implementing subject. All this within the framework of the derogation offered by various emergency orders of the President of the Council of Ministers and under the aegis of the Commissioner delegated to the emergency. In this assignment the prefect of Palermo protempore took turns, who covered him for only two months (exactly from February to April 2011), and the head of the Civil Protection department, who carried it out until the end of the state of emergency. No body of the Ministry of the Interior, therefore, carried out at this stage and - as I will explain below - not even in the subsequent ones, in relation to the structure of Mineo, specific roles or activities that concerned contractual aspects or managers or that were in any case related to the choice of the entrusted. The second phase is the transitional phase. On 31 December 2012, the state of emergency ends. With the cessation of the state of emergency and the taking over of the competent administrations in an ordinary way - we are on January 1, 2013 - the management of the center was assumed by the Consortium of Municipalities of Calatino "Terra di accoglienza" on the basis of a convention with the prefect of Catania. It was a choice expressly sanctioned and authorized by the same order for the closure of the emergency. The measure was adopted in December 2012, and was therefore part of the activities of the Monti Government. Minister of the Interior was Annamaria Cancelleri. The agreement signed between the Etna prefecture and the municipalities of Calatino was intended to guarantee the continuity of the reception until 30 June 2013. In this temporal phase the same prefecture should have provided for the indication of a public evidence contest for the management of the center. However, this did not happen within the prescribed time frame, requiring two consecutive extensions of three months each, which allowed the Convention to be extended until 31 December of that year. Meanwhile, the center of Mineo continued to be housed in the same structure requisitioned in use during the state of emergency, while the contractual relations, for the whole 2013, occurred directly between the Consortium of the Catalan Municipalities and the Temporary Association of enterprises assigned to reception services on the basis of an act of temporary custody. Therefore, an agreement was signed between the prefecture and the Consorzio Calatino that transferred to the latter the management of the center and, consequently, a contract of contract was concluded between the same Consortium and the ATI for the temporary custody of the services. In the blackberries of the call for tenders, both negotiating instruments were subject, during 2013, to successive extensions, all regularly recorded by the Court of Auditors. Even at this stage, therefore, the delicate functions of contracting station and management of the center saw the direct involvement of bodies of the administration of the Interior. This situation remained almost unchanged even after. In fact, the prefecture of Catania, strong of the opinion rendered in 2013 by the State vetting, at the end of the extraordinary management, was authorized by the Ministry of the Interior to conclude an agreement with the Consorzio Calatino for the management of the CARA of Mineo, whose legal basis was identified in article 15 of law n. 241 of 1990. Therefore, the choice to continue to use the Consortium of Etna Municipalities was confirmed, considering that the model to which he had looked the previous year, consisting of involving the territorial representation agencies, should not be abandoned, but brought back to the regime. Moreover, the reception activities of foreigners in the national territory normally give rise to a multilevel system, in which, alongside the State, the Regions and the municipalities are often involved, in various ways. The agreement concerning the center of Mineo was signed on 20 December 2013, for the duration of three years from 1 January 2014, and passed positively the scrutiny of the Court of Auditors, which admitted it to registration. The prefecture, although part of it, nevertheless saw its role limited to that of supervision, since, according to Article 5 of the Agreement, it alone has the power to carry out at any time the necessary checks in order to verify the adequacy and proper management of the services provided within the centre. Even with regard to third parties the prefecture does not assume any responsibility, remaining such relations in the sphere of competence of the Consortium. In view of the fact that, pursuant to Article 5 of the negotiating act, the Consorzio Calatino would also have had to manage the tendering procedures for the identification of the managing entity, on 24 June 2014, the Consortium appointed a special contracting commission, composed of three persons, including Luca Odevaine, who had just become part-time collaborator of the consortium. The competition was finally awarded the following 30 July, with a decrease of just over 1%, to a temporary group of companies including the Consortium of Social Cooperatives "House of Solidarity" as parent, and the Cascina Global Service Srl, the Consortium of Social Cooperatives SISIFO, the Consortium Sol. Calatino Scs, Senis Hospes Scs, Pizzarotti & C. Spa and the Provincial Committee of Catania of the Italian Red Cross, as senders. It should be noted that the undertakings forming the successful group correspond to those forming part of the temporary association which had been entrusted with CARA's services for 2013. The contract was concluded on 26 September 2014, with effect from 1 October 2014. The only other company participating in the race, the C.O.T. A cooperative company was excluded due to the lack of eligibility requirements and to the presentation of the offer in contradiction with the requirements of the notice. The excluded company asked the National Anti-corruption Authority, even before the Consorzio Calatino appointed the contracting commission for the tender, a pre-litigation opinion, invoking the illegality of the relevant notice. We now come to the stage of administrative remedies and intervention by the judiciary, thus arriving at the latest developments that have taken place in the current year. The Anti-Corruption Authority, with its opinion of 25 February, considered illegal the lex specialis of the procedure under consideration for contrast with Articles 2, paragraph 1-a, and 27 of the Code of Public Contracts and with the principles of competition, proportionality, transparency, impartiality and economicity. In particular, in the DAC's view, the procedure has submitted to a single different tendering procedure, which should have been awarded by separate procedures, i.e. by dividing into autonomous lots, in line with the heterogeneity of the services requested. Following this opinion, Consorzio Calatino initially initiated the procedure for the automatic annulment of the definitive award of the tender, except then to request the revision of the opinion DAC, on the basis of new elements of fact and law previously not evaluated and suspending the procedure in self-protection at the same time. After the declaration of inadmissibility of the request for revision by the DAC, last May 14 Consorzio Calatino confirmed the final award of the invitation to tender, not conferring a binding nature on the opinion expressed by the DAC, which was the subject of an appeal, before the competent TAR of Catania, by the group of companies awarded. At that point - we are on 27 May - President Cantone informed me of the response given to him by the Consortium. The intervention of the ANAC summit found for my part an immediate response, so much so that on May 30 last I activated the prefect of Catania in order to acquire any useful information on the monitoring initiatives undertaken with specific regard to the center of Mineo. The response of the prefect, just as immediate, has highlighted in particular, among the activities carried out, those pre-ordered to a more effective control of the expenditure through punctual checks on the administrative-accountable documentation justifying the sums to be paid. In fact, a more rigorous line of attention had already been taken after the start of the investigation on Mafia Capitale and the Ministry of the Interior, in fact, had already asked all the prefects, with a general directive issued in February 2015, to strengthen the system of management, accounting and financial controls related to the structures of reception of governmental competence. The contractual management of the CARA di Mineo has been affected, more recently, by the commissioner's measure ordered by the prefect of Catania on proposal of the National Anti-corruption Authority. In fact, the administrative affair has been intertwined with the judicial one. On 4 June, in the context of the criminal proceedings on the partnership Mafia Capitale, the order of the GIP at the court of Rome was executed, which also provided protective measures against representatives of the Consortium of Social Cooperatives "House of Solidarity" and of La Cascina Global Service Srl, both concerned with the management contract of the structure of Mineo. The disputes of the investigating judiciary concern the alleged commission of corruption crimes and the disturbed freedom of the charms. From the examination of the precautionary order, the DAC has found the existence of corruptive agreements and fraudulent conduct, such as to concrete the extremes for the commissioning pursuant to Article 32 of Decree-Law No 90 of 2014. The penalty measure, proposed by President Cantone, was prepared by the prefect of Catania on 23 June last and concerns the contractual benefits borne, respectively, by the Consortium of Social Cooperatives "House of Solidarity" and La Cascina Global Service Srl. The same corporate entities, as involved in the investigation of Mafia Capitale, were then also reached by an interdictative information, adopted on 22 June last by the prefecture of Rome. This is a distinct initiative, which brought the Capitoline prefecture, in line with the Anti-corruption Authority, to the commissioning of the two cooperatives in relation to all public procurement contracts and all concessions of a public nature, in the course of execution or completion, with the exception of the contractual relationship inherent in the CARA of Mineo, for which the commissioning provided by the prefect of Catania remains firm. Finally, I would add that the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Rome, in the framework of a positive investigative link, sent to the District Anti-Mafia Directorate of Catania a copy of all acts relating to the CARA of Mineo for further investigation. Meanwhile, another important development has just taken place. The Assembly of the Consortium Calatino, last 9 June, resolved the dissolution of the institution, whose liquidation was planned for the end of this year. From 1 January 2016 it will therefore cease to exist and, therefore, also to deal with the management of the CARA. The decision, adopted unanimously, was forwarded to the consortia for the continuation of the process. Therefore, a new phase will follow, which will in any case be marked by the activity of the commissioner's management ordered by the prefect of Catania. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to stress that the reconstruction of the facts described above confirms that the Ministry of the Interior is a body guaranteeing transparency and legality, as demonstrated by the incisive role played by the prefects of Catania and Rome through the commissioning of two of the companies involved in the management of CARA. The Ministry of the Interior has all the interest that full light be shed on this matter and that every aspect is soon defined, rebuilding the framework of responsibilities. A different perspective is now opened, in which the system of trust and management of the Mineo structure will necessarily have to be reconsidered. I am convinced that, while respecting the sharing with the territory and the entities that are its expression, the best solutions will not be able to ignore the model of national governance, using, that is, forms of direct management, similar to the generality of the other governmental centers. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the PD and AP groups (NCD-UDC)]] I would add, with reference to what a senator said a moment ago, about clearings in place on the reefs of Ventimiglia [[Comments of Senator Donno]] That's not how it is. I therefore deny what the senator has said, because it is destitute of every foundation. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u62	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of the Interior. Senator Di Maggio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u63	Mr President, today is an extremely important date marked by the presence of the Minister for the Interior in this House. On the subject, in fact, since December 2014 I have been presenting to your Ministry some questions on which I have not yet had an answer, but I had no doubt that your report today had dealt with the formal aspects, on which the facts have undoubtedly gone as you have told us. I am, however, more likely to be interested in the substantive aspects, not forgetting that you, in addition to being the Minister of the Interior, are also President of a political grouping. I will now tell you why, also recalling some interesting reflections of some senator of this branch of Parliament, you are the end user of this affair concerning the CARA of Mineo. I was a little surprised by your speech, indeed I understand substantially that you perhaps imagine to reason with a Senate in which the interlocutors can be exchanged for the former Senator Ferrante who, by his memory, is that subject, who was intercepted with Luca Odevaie, to whom the consultant of the Minister of the Interior told how the negotiations on the CARA of Mineo had taken place. Let's start with a fundamental fact: immigrants make more than drugs. This is a statement that Mr. Buzzi makes about extremely important issues concerning Mafia Capital. But why does Mineo's CARA have to do with it? You said so by recording all the formal passages (on which I have no doubt have been retraced correctly): on the CARA of Mineo Luca Odevaine has an extremely important position. He who, I repeat, has been a consultant to the Ministry of the Interior, casually also becomes a consultant to the Presidency of the Province of Catania (the reminder, in case she had escaped, that the then president of the Province of Catania was Mr Castiglione, today undersecretary). Afterwards, in addition to becoming a consultant to the Province of Catania, Luca Odevaie also became responsible for the tender for the CARA di Mineo. The formal aspects that you have pointed out to us seem to me to be a bit like closing the stables when the oxen escaped. In fact, at the time when the ban was made, the prefects did not pose the problem of why a single company participated in such an important competition for 100 million trusts. The figure is easily found, because - I repeat - I am more interested in the political aspects than in the formal aspects. In that society all cooperatives merged, belonging to both red and white (as we know, peculia non olet: There is no distinction in business, but there is an even more important aspect on which, Minister, I would ask you to listen. After the tender was awarded, without - I repeat - no prefecture had posed the problem of why for such an important contest there was only one company to compete, this funamble of the bureaucracy of our system, after being the responsible of the tender, becomes, as if by charm, also consultant of the company that wins the contract. Now, either we have a nose ring or maybe something didn't work. And this industrial chain that then establishes who must do what within the CARA of Mineo must tell it in an extremely emblematic way. There are companies that manage to make unused properties immediately usable; there are a whole series of services that are given in management to this reception center. And I imagine that all this produces a whole series of assumptions that definitely lead to the functioning of the structure and services that CARA has to provide, and on the basis of these... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish your speech, Senator Di Maggio, because you have already exceeded your time by more than a minute. IN MAY (CRI). Excuse me, Mr President, but I must take advantage of this opportunity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All other colleagues will also want to take advantage of it. IN MAY (CRI). Keep in mind that intercourse with the Minister is one of those things that rarely happen. Anyway, I'm gonna finish right away. This industrial chain leads on the one hand some companies to be able to use structures that in other ways would not have been usable; on the other hand to proceed to an avalanche of recruitments, which therefore allow to make on the territory a sort of political proselytism; and on the basis of this, it also leads to the fact that all immigrants who work in the areas, as have reported many societies that then deal with the recovery of these subjects, are exploited in the fields of work of those zones. I would ask the Minister if the institutional arrangements following this operation carried out in the CARA di Mineo have also been upset in those territories. Just look at the political results of those territories to verify who was the end user of this so scandalous management of Mineo's CARA. [[Applause from the CRi and LN-Aut groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u64	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u65	Mr President, the Minister's report has been completely inadequate: a list of information which is largely already known. You, Minister, had to dispel any doubt about the role of some government representatives in a tender of 100 million euros defined illegitimate by the president of the anti-corruption authority Raffaele Cantone. The reliefs of the latter have been completely ignored by the Ministry of the Interior that you would have the duty to guide. A competition that seemed cut out to measure on the consortium that already ran the CARA of Mineo and that Canton has defined illegitimate, because in contrast to the principles of competition, proportionality, transparency, impartiality and economicity. And you, Minister, what did you say? Nothing. What did you do? Nothing. Did you, who, with your empty chatter, try to stun the listener, say or do something to ascertain such serious accusations? He looked at it well, absolute silence. And why, everyone wonders? It is right that we should know some data. In the Mineo area, the New Centre for the European Right has reached 39 percent of the consensus. Good local administrators or rather becero clientelism on the skin of Italians? The truth is simple: the CARA of Mineo has become the main industry of that territory; dear, indeed dear industry linked to the reception of illegals. It hosts 4,000 migrants and employs more than 350 people. And who's working on it? The investigation shows that there are many relatives of some city councilors and councillors of the Municipalities of Mineo, Ramacca, Castel di Iudica, Vizzini, Licodia Eubea, Ragusa and others. [[Applause from the CRi and LN-Aut groups.]] They're all from the same area. And who rules those municipalities? The New Right Centro and the Democratic Party. Then enough with the sermons of Renzi and Alfano on the duty and the need to dedicate oneself to the policies of the reception addressed to the Italians; enough with your unbearable hypocrisy [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] ; Enough with the policy of reception without rules; enough with your policy of invasion, Minister. This policy is useful to a few who benefit from it and is done on the skin of honest Italians who pay taxes, are out of work and are treated as B-series citizens by your government. The money, the gain and unfortunately often the evil seems to be the guiding thread of the slanderous and millionaire politics of the reception of Italy. Your only concern is to place migrants as precious parcels throughout the country, threatening the confiscation of private properties and apartments. With you in the government, the State keeps for months and years all the illegals who land in Italy and evict the Italians from their homes. Shame! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] With you to the government, the state provides incentives to municipalities that host illegals to finance the feast of artichoke or the feast of the patron and closes the taps to those who want to set up streets and schools for their community. Shame! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] You are turning Italy into a refugee camp across Europe, because all other countries do not want illegals. You've turned our city stations into open-air lazzarettes. And since you don't know where to put the illegals anymore, you let them sneak off the buses in the squares of our cities and our countries, without even warning the mayors. Shame, Minister! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] And don't tell us the fairy tale you're trying to handle an inevitable emergency. You and your government are the cause of this emergency. You fed her with your mindless policy. You have given way to the idea that Italy is the Bengodi, which can accommodate all migrants from Asia and Africa. You host them in hotels, paying for their food and accommodation at the expense of the Italians. The flow will never stop with this demented policy. You have erased the crime of illegal immigration, you have actually closed the CIEs, you are responsible for this biblical exodus. You, at best, are irresponsible. On the other hand, we await the outcome of the judicial investigations. It is not up to us to do so. No, Minister, not everyone would have governed immigration policies in the same way. Italian citizens have now seen, understood, judged and are tired. They have already sent you the notice of eviction to the recent regional elections and with the next ones they will send home this Government, an irreconclusive, hypocritical and wordless Government; a Government that has not found solutions to the economic emergencies, of the job and of the immigration, but has simply aggravated them. Your government, Minister, has failed on the whole line. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations. The Senators of the LN-Aut Group display signs bearing the inscription "Alfano minister clandestine."]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u66	I invite the assistants to remove the signs before we resume our work. This time Senator Arrigoni surrenders and so do the others. Senator Candiani, I'll call you back. (Senator Crosio throws a paper ball). As I call Senator Crosio, who is practiced in throws. The Holding Company is also recalled for the first time, and there is still a piece of session. Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u67	Mr President, I take advantage of the opportunity of the presence of the Minister of the Interior, Mr Alfano, to recognize for sure the difficulty of an emergency that unfortunately often reaches dimensions that put into crisis even the most efficient systems. However, the issue of the immigration emergency cannot now be dealt with with with instruments of an emerging nature. We need a policy and the creation of organisational levels which, through normal mechanisms and through normal procedures, are able to cope with a phenomenon that is no longer of an extraordinary nature, and which will unfortunately have a prolonged development over time. Specifically, it is necessary to prepare all those solutions, both organizational and logistic, that carry the management of the problematic within an ordinary function of the public administration. From this point of view, I do not dwell on the specific issue of the CARA of Mineo because, Minister, I believe that the president of the Authority has done well to police the structure and it is good for the criminal judiciary to face those deepenings that are necessary in the face of irreconcilable situations with a correct, efficient and rational use of resources and a punctual action of control and supervision by the supra-ordained institutional levels. This, Minister, is something that needs to be developed, because responsibility cannot be attributed only to those who act, but the responsibilities of those who have an institutional duty to control must also be identified. I come to the question of controls, Minister, to ask you this question. (Senator D'Ascola interlogues with Minister Alfano). If Mr D'Ascola allows me, I would like to put a question to the Minister: now, faced with the rampant illegal behaviour of many people, both with political and administrative responsibilities and with administrative responsibilities alone, there is no general problem of the restoration of an adequate presence of preventive controls of legitimacy and verification of merit on the acts. Without wanting to recover old experiences, probably dated, I think that we cannot entrust only to the criminal judiciary and, with the times we now record, to the civil and administrative or accounting judiciary the task of verifying facts that have now happened, which have, in the vast majority of cases, unfortunately caused enormous damage to the public administration and citizens, who see poor, inadequate and sometimes even non-existent services. Faced with this situation, the problem is not that of the CARA di Mineo, ladies and gentlemen; the problem is of the public system and the public organization of Italy, which have lost every point of reference, either because of very hasty and often demagogic reforms, which have completely deprived the political and administrative authorities of a substantial impact on the behaviour of administrative organizations, or because they have eliminated any capacity for prior verification, which is instead an important deterrent in any situation. Minister, I wonder whether, from your authoritative and particular point of view, that of the Minister for the Interior, who has an overall view of the public administration, not only of the central, but also of the peripheral and autonomous, does not consider that, at this point, there should be an evaluation in this respect. I am well aware that this initiative is a matter for the legislator and therefore for Parliament, but a policy point of view of the Minister for the Interior and the Government would be indispensable. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u68	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u69	Mr President, Minister, the CARA di Mineo is indeed the symbol of all the failures of our country's reception policies and also shows clearly how, around the issue of the Centres and, more generally, on immigration, a real business of despair and an immoral interweaving between politics, business reality and organized crime, as is also highlighted in the Mafia Capitale inquiry. It is now, in our opinion, no longer possible to postpone the overcoming of a reception system based on the large Centres - just as in the case of the CARA of Mineo - abandoned in desolate places, far from services, from any possible sociality, in a crowd such as to make impossible a dignified life and a possibility of integration. In short, it is the most distant from what it should do, even simply in terms of human rights, a country that is supportive and hospitable. We have for a long time denounced with many parliamentary acts the business plot around the CARA of Mineo, a real autonomous republic without controls, without vigilance; unfortunately, however, his report today continues to be, from our point of view, completely disappointing and incomplete. Yet the investigation called "Mafia Capitale" has highlighted the mechanisms of this malavitous system. Of course, I do not intend to address the legal aspect here (the judiciary will do so), but I would like to put political questions, starting with the responsibilities of the North League, Minister Maroni, and the incomprehensible choice, if not for the interests of some, to identify a place of reception for some thousands of immigrants in Mineo, in a complex abandoned by the American army because it is subject to flooding, rather than in the former military base of Comiso, which is state property and has already been used in the past. Today no one can say that Mineo's is a model of reception that works, but for years it has argued exactly the opposite and our complaints have always been ignored on time. The undersecretary Castiglione, responsible and creator of that center, even considered him a model to follow. You, Minister Alfano, should give this House and the public a lot of explanations for your institutional role and also as political secretary of the Castiglione party. We consider it very serious that you, in the face of detailed accusations and responsibilities that call into question your party (the New Right Centre), continue not to answer on the matter. Is Mineo's CARA or is it not a total failure from the point of view of reception and for the corruptive system that has been created around it? Is Mineo's CARA's father or is he not Castiglione's undersecretary? Obviously, these are rhetorical questions. In another country, undersecretary Castiglione would no longer have held an important office of government, and the Democratic Party has done wrong to reject our request to resign the Undersecretary. In four years no one has checked how money was spent in Europe's largest reception centre. It was decided that this contract would become a real manger; it was considered that it was not abnormal, but normal the fact that a party that takes 3% on a national basis, happens to reach 40% percentages in that territory. Is it possible, Minister Alfano, that you, despite the inquiry by Mafia Capitale, never wanted to carry out inspection and control activities? Why for years, until the beginning of 2015, have not been carried out the controls on the management of the center by the prefecture of Catania? Why was there a need for a double intervention by Commissioner Canton to put the issue of the illegality of the contract for services in Mineo? Still, are you able to tell us exactly what checks have been carried out and what findings have been made by the prefecture against CARA in the last three years? These are questions which I do not simply ask, but which are raised in so many today and which you would have a duty to answer. However, you are the same Minister of the Shalabajeva case, you are the same as the lies about the manganellete to the workers of the Ast steel works in Terni that took place here in Rome, so we know for sure that you will not answer us. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u70	Senator Schifani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u71	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the promptness of his presence and in this brief speech I would like to break down the issues on the plans that require very brief insights: that of contractual correctness and the administrative path of the affair of the CARA di Mineo and the political one. On the correctness of the contractual and administrative profile the Minister was quite exhaustive and clear, also because the story - the Minister did well to remember it - was born in 2011 during the Berlusconi government with Minister Maroni, when it is requisitioned the residence of the Municipality of Mineo to allocate it to the reception, under the control both of the prefect of Palermo and of the head of civil protection. On that occasion there is no doubt that no body of the Ministry of the Interior has been able to carry out roles or activities of interference or administrative management, except that of high control. Subsequently, in the Minister's excursus we talk about the end of the state of emergency and the beginning of ordinary management, which in 2013 lives several administrative steps leading to the conferral of management responsibility to the consortium; a management that must of course be awarded through a regular procedure, which sees the establishment of a control commission and a contract awarded by a consortium of enterprises. Well, this is the administrative aspect that then gave rise to some anomalies of intervention and complaints from the National Anti-Corruption Authority (NAAC) in relation to the procedural rules, of which the Ministry of the Interior certainly cannot answer, on the correctness or not of the contract - and I answer to the colleague who preceded me - and not on the management of the CARA of Mineo. Attention because we have been concerned and are concerned in this House to give a response to the country after the intervention of Minister Alfano on the correctness or not of the affair of the CARA of Mineo in the broad sense. Instead, we need to set up stakes. One issue is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior for supervision or non-surveillance (and has monitored on the basis of its powers), another is the compliance with the rules of those who, in charge of monitoring tenders, had to verify the legality of the securities. And on that aspect was opened a complaint arising from the complaint by the anti-corruption authority that gave rise, first, to a refusal of the automatic revocation of the consortium of the award of the contract and then to criminal events. But they are concerned with investigations that affect - I repeat - the procedure of the contract and not how the CARA of Mineo was managed on the territory. It does not seem to me that the prefects have refrained from monitoring, nor that responsibility has emerged in this matter about how, in fact, immigrants were welcomed, about possible violence against immigrants, about any waste of money destined for the management of everyday life and the quality of life of immigrants. Let us then turn to another aspect. The Minister has done well to say that with the dissolution of the Consorzio Calatino a new era opens, an era that in the past has always been characterized by the multimedia involvement of State, Regions and Municipalities in the management of the emergency because if we want to talk, colleagues of the Lega Nord Group, about federalism, we must not do it only in an abstract sense. It is cross-cutting and vertical federalism also what sees, in the logic of the identification of responsible subjects of institutional character, the supply chain that, starting from above, that is from the State, descends to the Municipalities to give them responsibility for the control of the territory and the management of the emergency. The Minister said that a new phase will now be opened in which there will probably be a greater centralization of these bodies, but we will be careful to listen to his proposals and to evaluate them in full serenity, recognizing him the great responsibility he assumed and assumes daily at this very delicate moment of the country's life in many aspects of internal and external security. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]] On the political side, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: Mineo is a very small town, with a few hundred inhabitants, where the People of Liberty took between 40 and 50 percent of the votes. [[Applause from Senator Puppato.]] They all joined the New Right Center, that's all. I wonder then: are the votes taken by colleagues of the 5 Star Movement in Mafia High Density Municipalities the votes of the Mafia? Never! For God's sake. The votes that the League has taken in the Municipality of Maletto and equal to 40% in the European elections, are votes that arise from territorial operations? We try to bring everything back to the respect and logic of the consent of the territory; we try to address the issue of the management of immigration wisely, reminding ourselves how the issue does not resolve with the refusal of immigrants, as we tried to do during the Berlusconi Government and with Minister Maroni transforming Lampedusa - let's say so too and let's remember - into an offence for the dignity of all Italy and of all Italians. I am referring to when we (and I stress the term "we") allowed thousands of immigrants to station on the rocks of Lampedusa because the Minister of the time was prevented from moving to other reception centres. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]] We have worried the whole world, the international community and those photos I think will remain sculpted in the history of the undoing of our country. Fortunately then the President of the Council at the time assumed the direct management of that affair and sent the ships to clear Lampedusa and to be returned the identity of our country and the dignity of those poor unfortunates to a decorum, respect for dignity, respect for transparency and rules. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u72	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u73	11:59 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we in the 5 Star Movement have been asking for more than a year's account and reason for the bad management of the CARA di Mineo and all those structures, especially for the reception of minors, which for the money allocated should be strong and instead are real chickens. The last time he spoke in this Chamber, Minister Alfano told us that this year 59,600 migrants arrived, more or less the same number as last year. Just in these days the ship Phoenix in the channel of Sicily has saved 217 people - 171 men, 18 women and 28 minors - who have landed in the city of Ragusana. Behind the alibi of the collapse of the reception for the emergency landings, the distribution of migrants takes place in a rather questionable way: for us the management of the CARA of Mineo is questionable, and not only we of the 5 Star Movement, since the Mafia Capital investigation has discovered the network of criminal interests that speculate on immigration. The scandal of Mafia Capital had to break out to push you to wake up from your long hibernation, yet the 5 Star Movement since 2013 has drawn the attention of the Government to the management of the CARA of Mineo, with inspections and questions both to the House and the Senate, all remained unanswered. Minister, the judiciary had to intervene to push you to do your job: why has the Ministry of the Interior never found time to answer our legitimate questions? In one of these, for example, we had taken up the opinion given in February by DAC, according to which the competition for the management of the reception centre for asylum seekers in the municipality of Mineo for three years presented defects of illegality. With another act of inspection union, we have pointed out that the President of the Judging Commission who evaluated the only offer, Minister, was, by chance, Giovanni Ferrera, that is, the general director of the Consortium of Municipals "Calatino Terra d'accoglienza", an actuator of the CARA and charged by the Minister to ban the new contest. And then he should know better than us the name of the key man of the criminal organization, that capable of running a turnover of millions of euros on the skin of immigrants: Luca Odevaine, President of the integral foundation/Action, who was first deputy chief of cabinet of the mayor Walter Veltroni, then head of the provincial police with Nicola Zingaretti, member of the national coordination on the reception for asylum seekers of the Minister of the Interior, as well as consultant and employee of the consortium manager of the reception center of asylum seekers of Mineo; a man only to manage millions of public euros at the expense of poor people who escape from wars. The 5 Star Movement has confirmed to you that the council of the DAC has considered illegitimate the lex specialis of the procedure of contest of contract consecrated from the Consortium "Calatino Terre of reception", because in contrast to the principles of competition, proportionality and transparency, that in Italy punctually are disregarded for arcane reasons [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , the same arcane reasons that do not explain his silence, Minister Alfano. Does your silence lie in the involvement of some members of your party in unhappinessed judicial affairs? In the worry of blowing some balance in the government and maybe some nice armchairs? Indeed, Minister Alfano, the majority had no truce: first Castiglione, then Azzollini and, for weeks, even Senator Bilardi. Now you're gonna say it's the usual slanders and falsehoods that put the triggers around. However, it is not a false choice to bring migrants to Mineo again, since that CARA has been under the spotlight of judges, journalists and unfortunately only today in this House. How come, Minister, you have only now thought of updating us with this information? She is Sicilian like me and like Senators Schifani, Mancuso, Marinello, D'Alì, Torrisi, Gibiino and others, but also like Senator Padua, who comes from a Province like that of Ragusa that two days out of three welcomes immigrants from Africa. Could you ask these senators what concrete acts they have presented to clarify the situation that has arisen in Mineo? I'll tell you the absolute nothingness. You, Minister, are as Sicilian as your friend Giuseppe Castiglione: I do nothing wrong if I say your surname, yes, because our Movement has a fixed nail, that of informing the citizens. Your constituents, above all, have a duty to know who are the Members of this House who favour silence, who close their eyes, while making themselves beautiful on the territories, and who allow their Premier and Interior Minister not to tell the truth about the Reception Centre. I'm sorry, Minister, but the Five Star Movement has always been right. In fact, I'll tell you more. You should have said that day in the House: "I am already committed to urging the Prime Minister to withdraw my friend and colleague Giuseppe Castiglione as undersecretary of agricultural policies, because his involvement in the mismanagement of the CARA of Mineo, and therefore in the Mafia Capital investigation, stain of scandal and dishonor this Government and this majority". [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That was the least he could do, dear Minister! As always, honesty is obviously not fashionable in your parts, and we of the 5 Star Movement are not there! [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u75	I invite you to conclude, Senator Bertorotta, also because your time had already been extended.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u76	BERTOROTTA (M5S). I'm finishing, Mr. President. As always, both you and the President-in-Office of the Council Renzi have done nothing but behave. Besides, you're just good at a merchant's ear. We have clear your ability to haggle, but with human lives, with those of the weak above all, this skill is inconceivable and unacceptable to us. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u77	Senator Repetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u78	Mr President, unfortunately, in this House, apart from the fair play of the parties, which must be, between the opposition and the government, they are constantly drifting into demagogy and faction, in spite of a reality that clearly highlights the serious and excellent work of Minister Alfano in order to defeat corruption and the underworld in our country. This attitude is not useful to the objective of defeating the underworld but, indeed, it is likely to facilitate it. Minister, don't listen to the rumors that speculate about problems, but keep going straight ahead. Do it with your great work! Do it for the Italians. [[Applause from Senator Gentile.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u79	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pelino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u80	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is already regrettable, as far as I am concerned, to link the issue of immigration in a speech with that of the investigations of Italian prosecutors. The CARA di Mineo is an important Sicilian reception centre for asylum seekers, even the largest in Italy. Sicily, as we know, has unfortunately become a crossroads of migrants' routes from North Africa to our country. We also know that we are not faced with an ordinary phenomenon, but that we are in the presence of a real humanitarian emergency. In this way, the Centre acts as the site of first reception and, due to the migratory wave, presents obvious dysfunctions. The average stay of an asylum seeker in the Centre is about 12 months. In essence, it spends a year from when the immigrant enters the end of the asylum procedure. Not only the long stay, but also the risk, not peregrine, that the migrant finds a way out raises many problems for public order and security. Another fact that makes us understand the gravity of the issue is the actual number of guests that far exceeds the capacity of the center. In March 2015 (and now the situation will certainly get worse) the center hosted 3,300 asylum seekers against the 2,000 places available. Forza Italia never loses the opportunity to reaffirm its absolute opposition to the ways of management, by the Italian Government and the Minister of the Interior, of the migratory wave that is hitting Italy. But not only that. Once again, we want to strongly express our disagreement with what the Government, because of its weakness, should do and does not do in Europe, so that these issues can be resolved through the true cooperation and direct participation of all the Member States of the Union. The CARA di Mineo is therefore the son of political madness in the Italian way of welcoming migrants. In addition, without entering into the merit of judgments that do not compete with me, we cannot forget that the CARA is at the center of judicial investigations that, not only further worsen the difficulties already existing, but make us understand how the speculation of criminals who traffic in human beings from Libya and the southern shore of the Mediterranean add shameful illicits in which many representatives of politics, association and cooperation appear involved. In this respect, we obviously have confidence in the judiciary, which has a duty to clarify every aspect related to the issue of the CARA of Mineo, but we ask the Minister what the government's initiatives are so that these situations no longer have to be repeated. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u81	He's enlisted to speak Senator Russo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u82	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are issues, such as those we are discussing today, which constitute a natural watershed between that sterile and controversial debate that contributes to strengthening the image of Parliament as a quarrelsome baller in which it does not count the merit, but only the search for easy applause on arguments often without foundation but of immediate grip, and good politics, which is what sees the ruling classes of a country able to forget the interests of its own part and to question together, with ambition but also full awareness of the limits of our country system, on unprecedented challenges that will change for the better or the worse (but also depends on us) the future, not only of the Italians, but of significant portions of our globalized world. Therefore, thanking the Minister for the timely report, I believe that we have to ask ourselves which side we are on, because the elements that have emerged today confirm us with dramatic difficulties that do not allow us to play a ball of responsibility or unacceptable short-term speculation. The information heard recalls at least two issues on which we have a moral obligation to give an adequate technical and political response. The first is linked to the nature of migratory flows. It is an epochal shift of peoples that does not only concern our segment of the world and the known routes so far. Last week in Trieste, during an important demonstration on war journalism dedicated to Marco Luchetta and other professionals who paid with their lives, reporters, humanitarian workers and cultural leaders who well know the area warned us about what awaits us in the near future compared, for example, to the so-called Balkan corridor. They have described to us, in Syria and in many areas of the Middle East, the multiplication of inalienable dramas, of girls violated before even turning ten years, of mass exterminations, of political and religious persecutions and of absolute misery, which reaches the deprivation of the minimum daily ration of water and which forces people to leave, putting themselves in the hands of unscrupulous traffickers. Many of these operators have told us that in a few tens and tens of thousands of people will rely on Turkish traffickers, who, in turn, will pass them on to the Greeks, then to the Montenegrin, Kosovars and Serbs, and then gradually to the borders, not more southern, but eastern of Europe. The responsibility for good politics is then to get this issue out of presentism - I would really like to invite all my colleagues to do so - and from the controversy of the journalistic news, to really decide together what the strategy for the next 20 years is. We would like to have the ambition to build a project that will make future generations tell them that Europe - of course, Italy cannot do anything on its own, let us remember - has put in place the best strategy to ensure a future of development and integration, doing everything possible to respond to humanitarian emergencies. The second issue on which we are called to give a response and a signal of closeness is the extraordinary effort of the municipalities and citizens who have found themselves at the forefront of these epochal challenges. I say this as the only controversial note: I would ask colleagues not to lecture the Democratic Party, as many of our parliamentarians have been and are in the front row on their territories. [[Applause from the PD Group]] However, I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to a good practice which has been played by Parliament and this branch of Parliament. Thanks to the initiative of President Finocchiaro, the first Commission has launched a survey of immigration issues which has so far been characterized - hopefully by a good example - precisely for the constructive dialogue and the high multipartisan profile, which I referred to at the outset. During the hearings, the mayors of the municipalities most directly affected by the wave of migration brought us a testimony that gives honor to our administrators and our fellow citizens, Sicilians and Calabrians first, to which we also want to say thank you from this House. Pozzallo, Rosarno, Reggio Calabria, Lampedusa, Catania, Linosa, municipalities left guiltfully alone for too long and that for this reason have risked and risk the economic failure, but that despite everything have given extraordinary answers, supplementing also to normative voids on critical aspects, such as that of the reception of unaccompanied minors or the tragic task of the burial of the corpses. I would like to reassure Mr Airola because what he said about Ventimiglia is destitute of every foundation: even then our territory, citizens, good politics, volunteering proved extraordinary. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] and the 100 people who were on those rocks are already far less, thanks also to the government's direction. It is precisely the most recent actions of the Government that reassure us that our mayors, our civil servants, our citizens will be able to feel concretely close to the State. Similarly, we would like to reiterate that there will be no room for tolerance on our part for those who try to organize hateful speculations on the skin of the desperate of so many parts of the world. No tolerance for the international traffic of people, which also feeds the terrorist system, which gets to sink boats with hundreds of people at sea when it is no longer possible to exploit them. No tolerance for those who doubly hatefully speculate on the reception in our country, at the CARA of Mineo or in Rome of the cooperatives of Buzzi, betraying the trust of those who finally hope to have arrived in a safe place, but also of honest Italians and solidarity. But let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express our commitment to having no tolerance for those who hatefully speculate even politically on immigrants. Asking for the utmost respect for legality, as we also do - it has been remembered the commitment we wanted by Raffaele Cantone -, does not mean, however, accepting that for a handful of votes you play with the skin of people, using them as a talk show slogan or for a lie effect like that - sorry to say - of Senator Airola a few minutes ago. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I conclude by saying that we owe this more of respect and modesty, first of all to those who have managed the emergency so far, but also to our dignity as European citizens and that culture of solidarity between peoples and people that makes us proud to be such; but we owe it even more to the future of our children, to whom we want to deliver a world in which we have not lost the ability to live the closeness of the pain of our fellowmen and to build together more just and human conditions. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u83	I declare closed the discussion on the information of the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u84	I would like to inform you that, as already announced to the parliamentary groups on the short lines, at 4 p.m. tomorrow's Question Time, at 4 p.m., the Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, Dr Galletti, will answer questions on the following subjects: issues relating to waste management; climate change and energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u85	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 1568, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the own-initiative draft law of the Members of Parliament Fiorio and others; Russo and Faenzi; Edge Franco and Palazzotto; Zaccagnini and others; Schullian and others, and 205. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u86	Mr President, just last week we adopted a government measure in this House which aims to provide urgent responses to the agricultural sectors affected by crises and exceptional events, to the simplification and rationalization of agencies operating in the sector, with a view to transparency that this Government is marrying to the full. Agriculture, however, must not be considered only from a competitive, innovative or growth perspective, leaving aside that area of social agriculture now covered by rules aimed at enhancing a side that until recently was considered little by the national legislator. This area can play, as in past times, a primary role. With this bill we intervene in support of activities related to the agricultural sphere and it is shown how social needs can find adequate space in traditional sectors, such as agriculture, which, if rethought according to inclusive logics, can be foreshadowed as an excellent instrument aimed at solidarity, inclusion and social justice. In addition to the production of food products and traditional services, therefore, there is a whole side of the agricultural sector, considered by this bill, so we intervene in support of health promotion, rehabilitation and care actions, education, training and organization of benefits useful in everyday life, and actions of aggregation and social cohesion for the most vulnerable. For this reason, the promotion of social agriculture is characterized by a strong intrinsic meaning: the multifunctionality of agricultural enterprises is aimed directly at the development of social, social, health, educational and occupational interventions and services. This is fully within the framework of the legislative intervention inherent in the state competence defined in the third paragraph of Article 117 of the Constitution (m) concerning the determination of the essential levels of benefits relating to civil and social rights to be guaranteed throughout the national territory. The perspective according to which the norm aims at the socio-working integration in the sector of disadvantaged people, that is those who are more than fifty years old or are not regularly paid for at least six months, of very disadvantaged subjects, that is those who lack a salary for twenty-four months, and of the disabled, represents a real step forward within a truly inclusive perspective and that aims to enhance that role of union between the producer enterprise and the community to which agriculture is addressed by nature. This perspective, among other things, can only be enhanced by the other forecasts that contain the provision, namely: the organization of social and educational farms; the realization of agri- kindergartens and reception services for people in physical and mental difficulties, services and support services for medical, psychological and rehabilitation therapies. These aspects are fundamental and, in particular, I refer to the latter, the rehabilitation one. It is good to reiterate the very close link that exists in other measures which are still in the attention of the legislator, such as the one - I remind myself and my colleagues - relating to autistic spectrum disorders which just yesterday had a happy passage in the Chamber and which will return for a passage - hopefully very little - also in this House. Well, that bill, which is about to become a norm, included, among many other things, the occupational inclusion of men and women, boys and girls with autistic spectrum, who have a life expectancy exactly comparable to that of all of us. Here then is the trait d'union between these norms, which synthesise between them trying to make system. I am also thinking, for example, of the occupational inclusion of beekeeping rather than the production of wheat bread from confiscated land (but I will come back to this shortly). Moreover, the forecast according to which the public institutions that manage school and hospital can provide priority criteria for the insertion of food products coming from the operators of the social agriculture well connects with the perspective, outlined in the bill on the school, of the valorization of the use of food products coming from systems of short and organic supply chain, and in any case to reduced environmental impact and quality. This - I particularly want to stress this - has a truly extraordinary educational relapse. Let's think about what concretely contributes to achieving correct lifestyles by choosing organic foods, at zero kilometer, finally putting in place that prevention absolutely necessary to reduce obesity and overweight, and thus once again accepting the invitation that comes from the Expo. Again. By telling the origin of the products we consume, we educate our children, with simplicity but with strongly symbolic gestures, to the true solidarity, made of concrete gestures, to be lived every day. Let us think, ladies and gentlemen, of what we can tell our children: the food and bread produced from that wheat grown by disabled people, by disadvantaged people, will have a different flavor. Let's also think about the honey produced on those funds, raising bees. I have seen and witnessed the transformation, the inclusion, the full dignity that is given to disabled girls and boys who have a special relationship with bees, who manage to get in touch with them. This honey will be better, because it will taste like solidarity that no other product can give. It is also worth pointing out that the measure in question addresses two other important issues which merit ad hoc consideration. First of all, the possibility for local and regional authorities to grant at no cost to operators of social agriculture the real estate confiscated from organised crime. This is indeed a prediction of extraordinary cultural importance. Every day, even this morning, we have heard of assets confiscated worth more than EUR 1.5 billion, for example in Palermo. In order to avoid creating a rift between us, the institutions and the citizens, we will have to ensure that the confiscated property can also be given to the truly extraordinary cooperatives and workers of social agriculture. Think of how different it will be to be able to say that we bought and bought the wine that comes from a confiscated fund to the Mafia. Finally there will be a translation into concreteness and we can really bring the citizen closer to the institutions that do things in an increasingly coherent way. Within the draft law was also explained the dissemination of good practices in the field of monitoring and processing of information on the presence and development of social farming activities in the national territory, to which the setting up of the Observatory on Social Agriculture at the Ministry of Agricultural Policies has been carried out. This is a perspective for which it is considered reasonably founded the hypothesis that even the lazy Regions will be stimulated to adapt to the standards present in the most active ones, in order therefore to have a homogeneous spread throughout the national territory and to ensure that good practices can finally be shared. The same regions are required to carry out, within the framework of the rural development plans, functions to promote specific programmes for the multifunctionality of agricultural enterprises, with particular reference to the practices of integrated territorial planning and the development of social agriculture, including through partnership tables between the stakeholders in the social agriculture sector. I would like to conclude with one positive aspect. Encourage good practices; stimulate creativity that seeks new paths while retracing ancient paths; promote solidarity with concrete and inclusive gestures, is the task of a good policy, of good policy that we can contribute to writing together today. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u87	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u88	Mr President, we welcome any legislative action aimed at stimulating, encouraging and, above all, identifying the potential of the agricultural sector. Not less than a week ago, this Assembly dealt with Decree-Law No 51 of 2015, with frankly not quite certain results. I also think that the measure under consideration in this House is partial in nature and does not have sufficient capacity to identify the potential, the strengths of the agricultural sector, which, on the other hand, are varied and, above all, generate significant benefits for the entire economic, social and environmental system. Social agriculture has been the subject of particular attention both in the last legislature and in the present, as it affects various sectors concerning social and health policies and it is proposed as a new model of development of the territory, which generates synergies between the rural and urban environment, trying to cancel the dualism city-campaign through partnerships between the public and private, as well as the supply, by agricultural companies, of rehabilitation and supplementary activities for the vulnerable sections of the population (a true cultural revolution). In this context, the measure that today comes to the attention of the Assembly incorporates a series of provisions aimed at defining a regulatory intervention that identifies at national level the regulatory principles of the activity, in order to build a unitary framework of reference for regional legislation, to coordinate the whole of the policies and competences concerned and to provide the basis for the development of all the potential of these experiences. Such experiences, senators and senators, on the one hand, produce services of great social value and, on the other hand, are able to produce benefits in terms of development and income, especially for those agricultural enterprises that guard the most disadvantaged and marginal areas of the country and that therefore appear to be characterized by poor profitability, in particular the mountainous and particularly impervious territories. Social agriculture is therefore characterized by the expression of a multifunctional role - we would say multitasking today - of agriculture in the field of services to the person, alongside the traditional productive function the ability to generate benefits for vulnerable sections of the population, giving rise to innovative services that can respond effectively to the crisis of traditional social assistance systems and the growing demand for personalization and qualification of social services. Reconnecting with what has been pointed out in the last parliamentary term, I note that from the concluding document of the survey on social agriculture, aimed at acquiring a qualified information framework on a phenomenon that is experiencing significant developments in Italian and European reality (a very fitting example is that of the Dutch green care farms), but which still does not appear to have a legal framework of reference at national level, proposals have emerged to resolve on the regulatory level some specific needs and to address on the level of non-legislative interventions issues related to the use of European funds. The municipalities, the municipal technical offices, the technical offices of the social interventions of the municipalities, the agricultural professional and category organizations and voluntary associations look forward to this legislation. At European level, it should be pointed out that social agriculture has found its first definition as a specific area of public policy intervention in the programming of rural development funds. In this respect, social agriculture, in the recently concluded National Strategic Plan (2007-2013), is one of the key actions of Axis 3, on improving the quality of life and diversifying the rural economy. In this context and above all within the new European agricultural policy (the so-called CAP), national social agriculture, through a new and definitive governance, despite the differences in European practices and, at the same time, in the significant convergence processes, if not in welfare models, in the principles that characterize the experiences, despite the difficulty of the current economic and financial situation in finding ways to reorganize the available resources and immobilise them according to the support for social innovation, can contribute to determining faster processes of social innovation, able to offer useful responses for society and a full exploitation of the resources available to rural territories, to draw the paths in which the future word continues to have a positive meaning. All this is called the centrality of man, humanity, human resources, men and women of agriculture, rural families. The phenomenon of social agriculture has had a significant growth in recent years in the Italian agriculture landscape and today has taken on a significant importance in the reality of many agricultural enterprises. This is a very heterogeneous phenomenon, not attributable to a common model; the experiences that we understand in this container are varied, ranging from educational activities to therapeutic activities, from rural hospitality to rural hospitality, integration and training in the world of work; a whole series of realities that integrate in the traditional activity of the farmer new forms of services aimed at the community. Well, this complex reality today needs regulation, because a growing phenomenon such as that of social agriculture needs regulatory intervention. It is necessary to define better what the regulatory framework within which the regions and local authorities can move to promote, even better, this phenomenon in the concrete reality of our country. The draft law can allow social agriculture to continue to grow with all its positive value, remembering that, however, this phenomenon only emphasizes, once again, how the farmer is the engine of a positive reality, indispensable for a model of balanced and harmonious development, which takes account of environmental needs, but which also has a high social sensitivity. Here are the themes of Expo, the Universal Exposition in progress in Milan; here are the sensibilities and concepts of sacredness of the vocabulary and doctrine of Pope Francis. In conclusion, the text of the law which has an ambitious title, dealing with social agriculture, promoting through the practice of agriculture the inclusion of weak and disadvantaged subjects, certainly has an ambition which, however, is betrayed in the text by a confusion that begins first from a topic, the one relating to the competences that are largely attributed to the Regions, so much so that in this House the need has already been echoed to avoid that those within the national territory who have equipped themselves with an observatory that can carry out functions on the subject do not see its ability to anticipate the times compared to the State punished with a suspension mechanism. The issue of integration through agriculture, which is still considered an economy capable of absorbing labour, deserves attention, but it does not find, from the point of view of the Italian Conservatives and Reformists, a positive assessment for what concerns the measure before the House today, especially because of the failure to accept a number of amendments that would certainly have contributed to improving its text. Moreover, it should be pointed out that much of the matter is the responsibility of the Regions; the other party is entrusted by this law to subsequent measures. In summary, it is a law of general principles that does not find concreteness through its articulation. To conclude, the abolition of the State Forestry Corps is not conducive to the legislation that we want to introduce. In fact, with the abolition of the Forest Corps the territories are penalized and, in essence, it is forbidden to the guardians of the order to intervene in the field of ecomafias and, in particular, respect for the landscape. Similarly, the presence of farmers on the territory is not sufficiently exalted and highlighted, which is the premise and prerogative of environmental protection, landscape protection, our values and our traditions. In conclusion, Mr President, the draft law under consideration also lacks the prerequisites for broadband and fast connectivity. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u89	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u92	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor to point out a problem of the Abruzzo railways, which is the subject of my question, which I hope will be taken into account by the Government. In fact in Abruzzo, in particular on the railway route L'Aquila-Sulmona, something really extravagant happens. Every year, on the grounds of maintenance work, this very important railway section, because it connects the capital of the Region with the city of Sulmona, center of the Maiella National Park, is interrupted together with all services. I do not want to think about what would happen in Italy if, in order to do maintenance work on a railway route, however, at a low distance, the railways were to be closed for weeks and in particular during the summer season. I have urged the railway authorities, Trenitalia and Ferrovie dello Stato, to a more punctual answer, but there has not been. I therefore also urge the Government and the competent administrations, in particular the Region, to verify the goodness of the reasons of Trenitalia, which I fear only needs to put on leave the staff and maybe not to replace it for savings purposes in its budgets. This means, however, that the citizens of that territory have a serious disservice, absolutely not compensated by the buses of the regional public bus lines, and a further blow to the economy of that territory that suffers from a very serious crisis, being that a tourist area, where therefore in summer the services should be strengthened and not diminished.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u93	Senator Amidei, whom I do not see present, wanted to ask questions which he had put. However, the Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u96	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out to the Senate that certain disputes are taking place in Campania, which unfortunately see companies in crisis that are flagship flowers; on the other hand we see a Ministry that cannot solve these situations. The companies to which I refer are New Sinter, Ericsson and Firema. We call for an immediate reminder that, with regard to the New Sinter, the Ministry immediately questions the unions, who yesterday also sent a request for a very urgent meeting, as there are more than 160 workers at stake with their families. As for Ericsson, it is not clear why this project of dismissal of workers has been carried out, since the company's financial statements show that it is heavily active. The Firema is instead a company that actually produces trains and railway carriages, so - you want - it has orders to sell, therefore we cannot understand why the Ministry, also for the latter, does not find a solution, that then in reality is also quite obvious, since on the one hand there is production, on the other there are suppliers that absolutely want these productions. I therefore ask the Senate to urge the Ministry of Economic Development to resolve these situations. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u99	FACTORS (M5S). Mr President, TTIP, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Treaty, is a very controversial treaty because there is a fear that we will be playing down on the health and environmental rules of our dear Europe. However, this is not what I want to talk to you about today, but about an artifice through which false information has been given to Italian citizens. Well, the European Parliament's study entitled "Risks and opportunities for the EU agri-food sector in a possible EU-US trade agreement" reads: "Effects in the agri-food sector would be stronger, with EU exports to the US increasing by about 60% and EU imports from the US by about 120% up to 2025" which translated means that exports to the United States will increase by 60%, while imports from the United States to Europe will increase by 120 percent until 2025. Looking at the hearings in the Chamber of Deputies, I note that Mr Paolo De Castro, permanent rapporteur of the European Parliament's Agriculture Committee for Free Trade Negotiations, at a hearing in the Chamber of Deputies, translates this text as follows: Recent impact studies have estimated an increase in trading volumes between the two players over 40% with an increase in exports to the United States of 120 percent, which is completely false. In other words, Mr De Castro reversed the data by saying that we will export 120 percent more to the United States when it is written exactly the opposite, namely that the United States will export 120 percent more with TTIP to our Europe. This is unacceptable. It is not acceptable for Mr De Castro to be put in writing when this Treaty is being discussed in Europe. We therefore call for the government to correct the stenographics of that hearing and report back to give the correct data on this Treaty which must be discussed for what it is and not with false data. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u102	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that the Group of the Five Star Movement, the whole Group, today presented an urgent question concerning the exchange of the Cassa Deposit and Loan Summit. The problem is very urgent because very strange maneuvers are being made on Cassa Depositi e Prestiti. In fact, the meeting of the Board of Directors was convened on the 10th, i.e. Friday, and in the second call on the 14th with the agenda: "statutory changes and decisions on directors". Since everything that is happening is about money from postal savings, i.e. people who have accumulated savings in cash deposits and loans - this is EUR 230 billion, Mr President - we need to understand why summits change. The Bank deposits and loans have no liquidity problems, it is not passive and produces profits; why then it anticipates the change of the summits by ten months exauthoring the current president Bassanini and the managing director Giovanni Gorno Tempini replacing them with Claudio Costamagna and Fabio Gallia? In addition, changes are being made to the statute to remove the ethical clause that requires that a CEO cannot be indicated with a referral to trial. This is a disgrace, gentlemen! You must be absolutely ashamed! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The government can't do that! When the government does these things, hiding under the fundamental and very important can can media about what is happening in Greece, they make themselves go through very great filth. We would like to understand the role of Andrea Guerra, this consultant to the President-in-Office of the Council, who talks about the fact that in France the French Deposit and Loan Fund is in the share ownership of Telecom France and the same is in Germany. Maybe Franco Bassanini when he said that it was not necessary to buy Telecom Italia shares was uncomfortable? Let the President-in-Office of the Council say these things, because they are absolutely terrifying. What is the fate of Cash deposits and loans? What do we want to make it? What are the reasons for the change of the summits with ten months in advance? What are the statutory amendments? We want to know. What is the Industrial Plan of the Deposit and Loan Fund? These are the things that the government must tell us and this thing that will be done on July 10 is absolutely a shame and we will ensure that this does not happen. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Zizza.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u104	Senator Candiani, you do not appear on the list of members to speak at the end of the sitting, because you did not make the prescribed request: do you want to speak on the order of business? I should now give the floor to Senator Bottici at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u105	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I would ask, if possible, to subscribe to the question referred to by Senator Cioffi, because the matter, Mr President, is slipping away. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do you accept the request, Senator Cioffi? CIOFFI (M5S). Of course I welcome the request for subscription, but I ask all the senators of the Chamber to subscribe to this questioning: it is absolutely important that it be shared with the 5 Star Movement. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can send copies, even by e-mail, to all your colleagues and those who want can then give you feedback, as is usually used.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u108	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, in mid-June the court in Florence condemned the founder and co-founder of the community the Forteto for abuse and abuse of minors. I submitted an oral question to the Commission in July 2013 asking for explanations, motivations and verification by the Ministry of why minors continued to be assigned to that community. No one has answered me and since July 2013 it has been two years, and the victims for years and years suffer and continue to suffer. Yesterday the vote was postponed by the PD, with the help of Brothers of Italy, on a motion concerning the Forteto. Since there are senators in this House who went to take pictures during the election campaigns and to ask for votes from this gentleman, I mention the names: we have Claudio Martini and Undersecretary Nencini, who went to the community the Forteto, with President Bindi. Then stop the PD hiding the political connection with that community, which the Legacoop has painted for years as a reality of best practice, not only from the productive point of view, but also educational. I invite everyone to read the report of the Commission of Inquiry of the Tuscany Region in which the list of abuses and ill-treatment suffered by these children is made. Then stop: take responsibility and clarify this obscene period of the local administrations, since, despite the fact that the Fiesoli had already been sentenced for ill-treatment also by the European Court, he was entrusted with the children. We paid 200 million lire for this damage and now the community the Forteto must compensate the victims who continue to have the same social services that until before the sentence considered them unable to understand and want, because they made accusations, that they proved true. I would therefore like to turn Question 4-0053 into an oral question to the Commission, because it is not possible to wait two years for the truth. I hope, at last, that I will be able to get answers in the Commission, because that is a shame: for the whole of PD and for Italy as a whole! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-479.ana.u109	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.55 p.m.
