ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on the international security and defence strategy, with particular regard to the Euro-Mediterranean region, and on the organisation and structure of the armed forces, to which Mr Pinotti will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us turn to questions on issues relating to the international security and defence strategy, with particular regard to the Euro-Mediterranean region. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u6	VATTUONE (PD). Madam President, the crises surrounding Europe and affecting Italy require consistent and appropriate choices in the circumstances. The threats and emergencies that we face can come from the East, but we have been able to verify how they have been coming more often from the South and the Euro-Mediterranean area for some time now; therefore, the interest in our national security has shifted by placing the Mediterranean at the center of our country's attention. As pointed out several times in the various investigations and analyses, there are profound political upheavals that have generated new criminal phenomena. Italy must therefore assume greater responsibility and an active role in the efforts of the international community. In this context, the Libyan crisis is a priority that sees our country as one of the most exposed to the consequences, in general, and to the immigration emergency, in particular, with everything it entails on the humanitarian level. The Council of Foreign and Defence Ministers of the European Union has set up a naval mission that sees our Navy engaged, with a role of directing and commanding, called EUNAVFOR Med, precisely as a result of the developments of the Libyan crisis. This is a positive example, which we can well say is also due to the ability we have shown to play a leading role in the European Union in the Mediterranean. So, Mrs. Minister, the question that we intend to address to the completion of this path is the following: what, on the other hand, are the initiatives in place by the United Nations and how are these combined with the national ones?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u9	Alicata (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Madam Minister, recently high NATO military representatives have said that, on the South front and, in particular, on Libya, the Atlantic Alliance has not drawn up any plan, while giving maximum attention to the Eastern European border, in relation to the Russian-Ukraine tensions. These statements were also confirmed by NATO Secretary-General Stoltenberg in a recent hearing right here in the Senate. Already then we expressed our doubts about these assessments, considering that the real threats come, vice versa, from the southern front, also considering that dusting up cold war theories is - perhaps - not only a wrong assessment, but a dangerous gamble. The above would also be confirmed by the words of our Chief of Staff of the Navy, Admiral De Giorgi, who expressed, again in a recent parliamentary hearing, concern in relation to the excessive ship of foreign military ships in the central Mediterranean. Basically, Italy is left alone in the management of the serious and risky Libyan scenario, while our Air Force participates with great solidarity in defending the skies of the Baltic Sea countries. I would therefore ask the Minister of Defence what action he will take to make it clear to NATO once again that the real threats are actually coming from the southern front and why the Italian Government does not believe that it is helping, in the fight against terrorism and traffickers, the so-called legitimate government of Tobruk, which is defined by the international community as such, perhaps in an uncomfortable manner.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u12	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the White Paper on defence which you presented in the Senate a few days ago indicates the Euro-Mediterranean area as an area of priority national interest, foreshadowing the ability to carry out operations defined as full-spectrum, i.e. from humanitarian interventions to stabilisation interventions, to actual offensives, i.e. wars, Mrs Minister. Do you want to explain what the economic impact on public finance will be? How much will it cost to the Italians? How much will it cost the ambition of your Ministry and, therefore, of the Government to assume military leadership in the Mediterranean area? Mrs. Minister, the current scenario of the Mediterranean area always puts the focus on the Libyan issue. I ask you, after your last question time in September, what is the internal situation in Libya to date and what has changed compared to the situation that you described on that occasion? Moreover, excluding the meeting of the Council of the European Union last Monday, there are no further acts of international bodies, while the Italian Government would already have indicated as the head of the future European operation in the Mediterranean, an admiral of ours. Will you kindly give us the name? Will you tell us your name, Mrs. Minister? I also ask you what means will be used to destroy the boats used by immigrants: will drones or other means used at the airport of Trapani-Birgi and Pantelleria or the American Global Hawks near Sigonella be used? Mrs. Minister, do you confirm or deny this? I would ask you to give us some information on these very sensitive issues, this time by putting them before Parliament... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u13	You're done? SANTANGELO (M5S). I'm finishing, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The time is very tight. SANTANGELO (M5S). I was saying, by putting before Parliament the programming that he deliberately denied in the previous question time.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u16	Rossi Luciano (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, allow me first of all to bear witness to the closeness and sharing of the understanding for the joint development of a European drone, signed by the Minister together with France and Germany. Madam Minister, the Mediterranean area is at the center of extreme tensions that have increased even more following the bombing of the Turkish merchant ten miles from the coasts of Libya. This attack could, among other things, have the effect of removing from Turkey any incentive to be cooperative and cooperative towards a peaceful solution to the Libyan dossier. This is important for Italy and Europe also following the approval of the European Union's agenda for a new immigration policy, approved by the Commission. The High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs, Politics and Security Federica Mogherini presented to the United Nations the European Union's emergency plan on the issues of Libya, migrants in the Mediterranean and the problem of human traffickers, but Libya does not accept that Europe can take action in its territorial waters: this seems to be the case. The diplomatic route is therefore going uphill also because, as demonstrated by the attack on the Turkish cargo, the Libyan forces could react in an unfriendly way to a Western intervention not adequately agreed with Tobruk and Tripoli and with the main regional actors. We therefore ask what you think, Mrs Minister, about what the role of Italy in ensuring the security of the Mediterranean would be in practice. I'll take the opportunity to ask you a second question. In the Commission you represented us the theme of the average age of the members of the Forces of the Order in Italy, in particular of the section of the defense, and you specified that the Italian Armed Forces have a structure of the staff opposite to that of the main European countries. The vast majority of us are in permanent service, while only a few (a little more than 10 percent) are in a fixed stop. In the rest of Europe it is exactly the opposite and I believe that this deserves attention from the Minister and also from the comprehensive answers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Your second question perhaps concerned the second item on our agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u19	Orellana (Mist). Madam President, Madam Minister, there are four pillars on which the European Union has proposed to the United Nations to deal with the emergency landing from North Africa, focusing in particular on Libya. The first point is the aid to the countries of origin and transit of migrants, the second is the control of the borders to the south of Libya and in the neighbouring countries, the third point is the mission of security and defense against traffickers and boatmen and the fourth is the obligatory division of refugees according to a mechanism of European quotas. The media and all of us have focused mainly on the third and fourth points, but my question relates to the second point, namely that of border control in southern Libya. I ask you to anticipate if and what military commitment in terms of men and means is envisaged by Italy, if Italy will have the command of operations, imagining that it will not be left alone in this commitment and which Libyan borders or neighbouring countries will be controlled. As is well known, then, for the third point concerning the security missions against the traffickers of men and the hullers, it has been asked the assent from the government, or rather of the Libyan governments, that of Tobruk and that of Tripoli, and both have denied it. I would ask you whether a similar consensus has been called for for the control of the Libyan land borders and what the answer has been. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Defence, Senator Pinotti, has the power to respond jointly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u20	Since I have the opportunity to be here in the Senate, before answering the questions that have been asked, allow me to express my condolences for the death of Corporal Fabio Comini, an expert parachutist, who unfortunately died this morning following an accident during a training session. From the first findings it would appear that the parachute did not open, but there will of course be an investigation. So I take this opportunity to express my condolences to the family and the armed forces that, I imagine, you share. Some of the questions you asked me may also be grouped together. The fundamental issue of what the UN is doing, as well as the issue of Libya and its borders, can be linked to some of the decisions taken at the European Council of Foreign and Defence Ministers held on 18 May. We are faced with different actions: on the one hand there is the UN, with special envoy Bernardino Leon, but, above all, there is a work being done at the UN Security Council, of which Italy is the protagonist as a proposer. I would remind you that while our country is not a member of the UN Security Council, it can use the four European States that are currently in the Security Council - two permanent, France and the United Kingdom, and two temporary, Spain and Lithuania - to ensure that a UN resolution is reached regarding the military intervention decided by the European Union at its meeting on 18 May. What was decided at this meeting? In the meantime, it has been decided that Admiral Credendino - a name that was in all the newspapers and which is also in the official document of the European Union - will be at the head of the mission, whose command will be in Rome. It is a mission to which we are beginning to work to gather forces: the Chief of Defense Staff stopped the next day to meet all the other Heads of Staff of the countries of the European Union to proceed with the preparation of the forces. The first phase of the mission will begin with the gathering of information, and then the second and third phase - that is, the direct intervention to stop boats, to prevent migrants from being transported and possibly to proceed with the destruction of boats - is expected the UN resolution, which is important that it arrives before the last ten days of June, because on 22 June there is the meeting of European Foreign Ministers, while on 25 and 26 June the meeting of the Presidents of the Council, which will effectively and operationally apply the mission precisely as regards the second and third phases. The work on the UN is therefore an indirect but important work, which is obviously doing our diplomacy and to which Italy is giving support. I believe that it is important to stress the success that Italy has had in ensuring that the European Union as a whole - that is to say all 28 countries - recognizes the Mediterranean as an emergency and sees the death of migrants and the exploitation of work as an issue that could not continue to be looked at without doing anything, so that we leave with a European mission. In addition to this important role, Italy has been granted the willingness to cooperate with everyone, making a passage that I believe is also important with respect to the idea of building a European defence: if we do not work specifically for the construction of a European defence in joint missions, then it becomes difficult to continue to idealize it for the future. With regard to the issue of NATO, the Secretary-General of NATO Stoltenberg also attended the European Union meeting on 18 May. He said he was willing to respond to the needs that can be invoked. There is therefore an opening to what Senator Alicata has reported regarding availability. Until now, a specific and explicit request has not been made to NATO. I would like to recall here an idea that Italy had already announced to NATO earlier through the Chief of Staff, that of ensuring that the Active Endeavour mission, with which anti-terrorism in the eastern part of the Mediterranean is activated, can go to support the mission, which is also of sea control and security, which the European Union is validating. I think that this is a work lead on which we could actually ask NATO for support for the South Front. I would remind you that, after the Wales Summit, in which the focus was indeed on Ukraine, thanks to the important work done by Italy (but also by France, Spain and other states, like Portugal itself, countries which, like us, feel the emergency of the South Front), in the document approved by the European Defence Ministers at the February Summit, it was decided that the fronts are East and South. This front wasn't there before. It was put in the dots. Therefore, both fronts are contained in the rapid reaction force, which is being prepared and on which NATO is working. As far as the requests made by Senator Santangelo are concerned, I have responded with regard to the admiral. Instead, the initiatives we are planning to implement will always pass through Parliament. There is no planning already made or to be told in a question time, because the planning is told in the decree missions that is approved by Parliament. So, even with regard to all future actions, these will be approved by Parliament. As today there are no decisions taken by the Minister, the Ministry or the Government in the absence of a decision of Parliament. In the White Paper it is said that compared to years in which we have been engaged, even very generously, in scenarios far from us, today the risks are concentrated mainly in the area that is most directly concerned Italy, the Mediterranean, and so we are prepared not to disinterest ourselves in the overall security of the world but to tell the world that at this moment it is above all the area in which we feel can arise threats. And to this end we are preparing to take on a role as protagonists, as we have assumed with reference to the European mission in which the Italian command was decided in Italy, because in fact in Parliament we had already decided to prepare a mission. I am referring to the Safe Sea operation, which you have seen in detail because it was present in the decree. A mission that began the work, that we are now carrying out, to verify the security of the Mediterranean in order to prevent the risks to the safety of our platforms, the merchant ship and also to have information aimed at intercepting possible risks coming from the terrorist threat. With regard to the issue of Tobruk, and therefore the issue contained in two questions on how Libya is responding, together with the entire international community we recognize the Tobruk Parliament as legitimate. A direct request - apart from press anticipations - from the Tobruk Parliament for help on counter-terrorism has not yet been made. It seems, however, to be leaving and, in case, there is the maximum willingness to cooperate. To date, however, we are not talking about a mission in Libyan soil and not even at the borders of Libya. What is the current situation at the borders of Libya? France is engaged in some missions in Central Africa, Mali and the sub-Saharan area, which in a sense are not direct borders but revolve around the Libyan situation. As for the requests that the Libyan Government will make, the moment they are made will be evaluated. In the meantime, we are offering maximum cooperation to neighbouring countries. Tunisia, with which we work hard through cooperation to stop terrorism and the dramas (deaths and killings) caused by improvised devices, we have given night visions necessary to avoid this. We cooperate with Algeria, again very interested, always with joint formations and with maximum availability. We cooperate with Egypt, which has suffered major losses of military, offering military cooperation in the field of training and also providing, as in the case of F-16 pieces, tools to be able to do training. This, in fact, is the request made by Egypt and this is our willingness, because we think that Egypt is fundamental in a strategy to contain terrorism that, unfortunately, is also expanding in Libya. This, of course, is of concern to the situation in the whole region. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u23	VATTUONE (PD). Madam President, we too express our condolences to the armed forces and to the family of the corporal who lost his life during the exercise. We welcome the response and hope that work at the UN Security Council will lead to a resolution in good time to proceed with the operation. We stress, as already stated in the question, that this operation of the naval mission is an Italian success, with an Italian command, and has finally brought the issue of the Mediterranean to the centre of European attention. In addition, we are looking forward to a process of integration of European defence.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u26	Alicata (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, we join in the mourning of the family members of the unfortunately deceased father. Mrs. Minister, I'm partially satisfied. The perplexities remain, not about his commitment, which we know serious and convinced, but about a lack of incisive action by the Government towards the European Union and our allies, who have a vision, in our opinion, not clear about the real dangers and the real threats. They are, in most cases, allied countries that are among the main responsible for the Libyan chaos of which we are now experiencing the consequences on our skin.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u29	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, we join in the mourning of the deceased military. Mrs. Minister, we are absolutely not satisfied with your non-answers; we are tired enough to hear your uncontentious answers. I asked you specific questions from an economic point of view and you didn't give any kind of answer. I tell you that what is described in the White Paper is absolutely at odds with what the Italians deserve. The Mediterranean will be at the center of a war scene, and what you have failed to say this time again is that Italy will participate in a real war mission, begun in 2011 against Libya, and will continue even now. And this time Italy will be leader because of him. Mrs. Minister, we're tired of hearing your non-answers. You're the minister of the "I don't know"! Mr Pinotti, Minister for Defence. You don't understand. You don't understand. You don't understand. SANTANGELO (M5S). Be polite!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u32	Rossi Luciano (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, we also support the mourning for the disappearance of the military. Madam Minister, we are satisfied with your answers, but above all we are satisfied with the work that has always been done in the Defence Commission, where the participation of authoritative representatives and, last but not least, of the Secretary-General of NATO has finally given attention to the problem of the South, the problem of the Mediterranean. So, we have determined this situation. Certainly these things cannot be the solution, but having determined this situation has opened Europe's eyes to a dramatic problem which concerns Europe, but which it dumped on Italy. I believe that good work has been done for now; we must continue in this direction in order to give concreteness and solution to the tragedy we are experiencing.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u35	Orellana (Mist). Madam President, first of all, I would also like to express my sympathy for the victim of our Armed Forces. I am pleased with the Minister's reply that, I understand, it is still incomplete because perhaps it is still early to foresee this commitment which I was asking for in my question. I understand that it is difficult to do so, and I see the Government's commitment, and the Minister in particular, as positive, to constantly reporting on the development of the situation. In my previous question, I did not have time to add that my hope is that, by controlling the southern borders of Libya, the flow of migrants can be reduced by eliminating the problem a little more at the root, and not by always limiting ourselves to monitoring, striking or doing something else on the Libyan coasts or even on the boats that pass through the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u36	The Presidency joins in mourning for the death of the paratrooper and expresses the senses of closeness to his family.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u39	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Madam President, we note and appreciate the considerable effort made to elaborate on an issue of absolute importance to the country, at a time when the defence and security systems of the most advanced Western countries face a quantity and variety of threats as had happened a few times in the past. In the face of increasing risks and reduced resources, therefore, there is a need to increase capacity, containing costs, eliminating redundancy of infrastructure and duplication of functions. The many indications contained in the White Paper, which you recently presented to the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committees of the House and Senate, accentuate and reflect the spirit, fully implementing it, of the inter-force nature introduced by the reform of Minister Andreatta of 1997. The 2015 White Paper, first of all, is based on a serious historical lack of elaborations and documentation in the matter of defence of our country, combined with the lack of a national security strategy (such as the Anglo-Saxon high strategy, to understand us) within which we can correctly define the level of objectives and our instruments. From the White Paper will come a whole series of regulatory measures, laws and regulations or simple administrative measures to give concrete implementation, which will help to outline the new face of the Armed Forces. I come to the question. The White Paper repeatedly refers to a process of reviewing the logistics of the Armed Forces. Currently every Armed Force has an independent logistic support structure, often with duplications no longer acceptable from the economic point of view. How does the Government intend to optimise this situation, also with a view to possible defence support to other public institutions?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u42	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Madam Minister, I raise two different issues which I believe are closely related. The White Paper on Defence that you have just presented is the appropriate instrument for defining governance for the future of our Armed Forces, which will be called upon to work towards the achievement of increasingly complex objectives, both for the protection of national interests and for our participation in increasingly difficult international missions. But the guidelines that you have presented to the Chambers and the strategic objectives set in the medium and long term must be nouned, guaranteeing certain and above all stable resources, promoting financial commitments of at least six years, as is the case in other major European countries, in order to be able to meet in a lasting way not only the national defence, but also the heavy commitments made with the allies that require structural responses. You said that the objective is to reduce the armed forces by 50,000 total units by 2024, remembering, among other things, that today the average age of our military is thirty-seven years and that this will determine in perspective a potentially very negative effect in terms of effectiveness. I ask you how it will be possible to guarantee adequate resources for our military engagement in the coming years and how you plan to modify structurally and without operational imbalances what you have called the age pyramid in our Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u45	MARTON (M5S). Mrs Minister, in the White Paper you referred to the reduction of permanent staff and the reserve. You want to turn - if I understood correctly - the Armed Forces into a well-cohesive, but small-numbered interforce group. We are talking about 150,000 people, including 50,000 operatives and a backup force. I would like to understand how you will, Mrs. Minister, reduce and rejuvenate the staff (because if you want to rejuvenate and reduce the staff there will be redundancies, and I believe in abundance). I wonder, therefore, how it will reduce this staff, first of all; what will be the cost of this reduction in staff and how it will affect the pension system; how many redundancies it believes there will be; what legislative instrument it intends to use, as my colleague said, and how long the operation will take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u48	Rossi Luciano (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mrs Minister, during the recent hearing to the Parliamentary Committees on Foreign Affairs and Defence of the Chambers, you informed us that the average age of staff is about 37 years, so very advanced. He then specified that the Italian Armed Forces have a staff structure practically opposite that of the main European countries. From us, Mrs Minister, the great majority are on permanent duty, while only a little over 10% of the total is on the stand; in the rest of Europe it is exactly the opposite. I would ask you, Mrs Minister, if this situation is not a problem in terms of operation, that is, the effective capacity of the armed forces to carry out their institutional mission.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u51	Orellana (Mist). Madam President, Madam Minister, in the long-awaited White Paper on International Security and Defence, which has recently been published, it is proposed that the Ministry of Defence should dispose of industrial installations. I am referring to point 280, which says that the possibility of industry absorbing certain technical and industrial defence structures will be explored. In the White Paper itself, paragraph 263 states that: "the design, development and production of technologies relevant to sovereign competences will be maintained on national territory, regardless of ownership." It seems to me that there is an opening to privatisation, without property constraints, which could therefore also be foreign. However, considering the importance and strategicity of the sector, which directly concerns national security and the protection of our sovereignty, I wonder what the Ministry's real orientation on this issue is regarding the disposal of technical-industrial defence structures. Is it possible to imagine that structures currently in the Ministry of Defence can be transferred in the future to foreign, public or private investors who have certainly legitimate profit logics, but perhaps opposed to our national interest?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u54	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Madam Minister, as we know, the auxiliary placement institution provides that military personnel on leave, following the termination of service, may be called into service within the next five years in order to reach the age limit, receiving an allowance which is added to the pension. The Stability Act for 2015 amended Article 1870 of the Military Law on the calculation of the auxiliary allowance. Specifically, the gross annual allowance has been reduced from 70% to 50%, in addition to the treatment of quiescence. This allowance is the difference between the last salary and the pension. So we are talking about a total amount of about EUR 435 million for temporary pensions for auxiliary staff. In view of the fact that the continuation of the placement as an auxiliary would end up frustrating the generational replacement of the Armed Forces, which you called for in the White Paper on International Security and Defence, with the laudable intention of giving more space to young people - and I quote in this connection the young people project, described in paragraph 147 of the aforementioned Book - I therefore ask you, Mrs Minister, if you do not consider it appropriate to provide for a further and more incisive remodulation of the auxiliary allowance, in order to facilitate, with this saving of expenditure, the alternative projects already planned, especially the entry into the staff of the defence of new units of staff, in compliance with the generational replacement, as you rightly wished. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Defence, Senator Pinotti, has the power to respond jointly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u55	Madam President, first of all, I would like to mention the first question, which was very clear and concerned in particular the issue of logistics - in the White Paper - which I think is important, bearing in mind some examples. Today it is no longer possible to assume that there are multiple and divided spending centres, nor that similar activities have duplicated in the various Armed Forces. We must therefore carry this function within the framework of a unitary direction - interforces - and one of the points in the White Paper stems precisely from the analysis of this logistical situation, which no longer made any sense, given that over the years resources have been contracted. The maintenance of common equipment and materials, such as helicopters or vehicles, but also the provision of common services, such as supplies, warehouses and warehouses, can be unified in a few efficient structures. If only we think of the large number of helicopters acquired, not only by our armed forces but also by other bodies of the state, we realize how a modern and effective logistic management of this fleet can produce substantial savings and probably a greater effectiveness of use. Their rational location on the territory, for example, could bring undeniable benefits from the point of view of the rationalization of the logistic flow and above all an even greater and efficient contribution of the Defense to other Dicasteries, in case of emergencies or activations for calamitous events that can hit our peninsula. There are, of course, many other examples to take: it is often asked why the Armed Forces continue to have a foreign language school for the Air Force, one for the Army and one for the Carabinieri. If we do not work on the changes in the White Paper, since it has been tried for many years, these activities will not be unified in a common conduct. The same principle applies to military health. With regard to the issues raised by Senator Mazzoni, we have certainly suffered in recent years some very strong cuts; it is a trend at the European level, but in the last ten years Italian Defense has had a reduction of about 26% in terms of resources. So these are significant and substantial cuts, and we hope that a stabilisation of the economic framework, therefore an overall economic recovery, will enable us in the future to harmonize with the European parameters. At the moment we keep ourselves in the DEF's forecasts, and they will then be made explicit in the Multiannual Programme Document (DPP) as regards the programmes, but we have foreseen in the White Paper - just as you asked, Senator - that a six-year law be proposed. I think it is important first of all because this makes Parliament more responsible, which will have to take a decision on all the weapons programmes at this stage; moreover, the proposal is sixty-one because it takes time for continuity in these programmes, and we have a three-year budget, so at least two cycles. From this point of view it may also be more evident to Parliament itself that all the proposals that are necessary are necessary, and of course, as I said, Parliament will have to adopt this law, thus playing an important role. A theme that returned in some questions concerns the modification of the age pyramid. I need to specify something that many in the Defence Commission have already learned. We are proceeding with the White Paper and Parliament has approved a reform of the Armed Forces, Law 244 of 2012, which provides for a reduction of 50,000 units from now to 2024. The instruments for this reduction are contained in the implementing decrees of Law No 244, which have already received Parliament's favourable opinion. So, it's progressing. For now we are in line with what was planned (we are over 176,000 units, if not mistaken); we are at the step we had planned for these years. We will have to follow carefully so that this trend can continue to reach 2024 with the figures we had assumed. Therefore, we are not talking about redundancies, nor is the White Paper, as far as measures are concerned, going to have a different effect on what is decided by Law 244, but we are wondering - that is - what are the Armed Forces of the future and we have seen, as many of you have pointed out, that an average age of thirty-seven years, which will tend to increase in the coming years, we cannot support it for its operation. We are considering, as other European countries do, the idea of imagining that there are young people, women and men, who decide for some years to serve in the Armed Forces, but who will then go to do other jobs; while there will be others - but in a very small percentage compared to those currently there - who will instead do all their work in the Armed Forces. This is an important work that we will have to do, and not simple; I am perfectly aware of the complexity. We are looking at how other nations have moved - for example, Germany has put together a number of measures - because we cannot even allow young women and young men to come to serve for a few years and then have no work paths. We are therefore trying to understand how, with a series of incentives and facilities, we can imagine a path that, once out of the Armed Forces as trained professionals (our Armed Forces form very well), we can facilitate work paths that are outside the Armed Forces themselves. Of course, these passages will be brought to Parliament as far as they are competent. What the White Paper indicates is not about the current situation, which is affected by Law 244, and the instruments are the ones you already know (for example, transit to other administrations etc.). As far as the future is concerned, however, we must anticipate - and we have also given ourselves strict deadlines: within six months - how we will deal with the armed forces of the future, because this problem is structural and not contingent, so we cannot solve it every time with a one-off measure, but we must deal with it with a different organization than the percentages we have today. As for the question asked by Senator Orellana about the possibility that there are public-private partnerships with regard to some defense companies is actually a topic not only under discussion but on which attempts have been made for many years. We have a series of defence facilities that are now in the Defence Industries Agency, which always depends on the structure of the General Secretariat of Defence and National Armament Directorate, which are actually structures that over the years no longer produce things that defence needs; therefore, we are trying to enhance them even with private partnerships precisely so that they can continue to produce useful things. From this point of view, it is not an easy process because, for example, the cordieria, which once had a series of functions, today serves less than some time ago with regard to the Defense, but they are professionalism that we do not want to abandon and we are trying to accompany with a process that can make these plants productive, while producing not only for the Defense, but also for the external needs. This applies to the possible partnerships, which could also arise on the arsenals, which have immense spaces compared to the actual needs of the Navy and which could be expected to be used for private shipbuilding, giving space in convenient use or in other ways. It's a long line of work that's been going on for a long time. It is not always easy to achieve it, but there is. With regard to ownership and the issue of private investment, we on the defence industry will increasingly move towards globalisation. Think only of an Italian excellence, AgustaWestland: there are many workers who are in England, yet it is an Italian property. We must not therefore look at who owns the property; we must safeguard the fact that know-how and work do not fail in Italy. In the operation, for example, that we are doing with Piaggio the capital is foreign, but the work remains in Italy and know-how remains in Italy. The fact of attracting foreign investments while maintaining productive capacities and know-how is something I hope for, because unfortunately we do not have all the resources to be able to invest in all the needs of the different industries that can produce weapon systems. The important thing - golden power intervenes here - is the fact that this technology cannot be taken away. We have laws that safeguard the fact that you cannot take away the knowledge that allows you to produce these things and we follow this process carefully. Finally, there is the theme of the auxiliary, which was rightly emphasized by Senator Baptist and which somehow connects with the speech on the reservation that we are making. The auxiliary was born about fifteen years ago with the need to have a selected reserve. In the years then, however, given the fact that on average the military retires five years earlier than the public administration, it was also a measure that allowed not to have an inequality between civil servants compared to the pension entity. At a time when we are thinking not only about training and training but also about the percentages of permanent and determined staff, I agree with the reflection made and I believe that this allowance is more incisively modulated and we will focus on this, along with the overall reasoning we are making about staff. Of course, there will be parliamentary passages for all aspects of Parliament. For example, for the differentiation in the White Paper we talk about having generals where they are needed, but that means that we will go, with regard to career opportunities, to influence a law and of course we will talk about it in Parliament. Everything that is legislative will require a parliamentary passage. On the other hand, the White Paper points to a trend. With regard to the costs required with respect to this operation, all financial accounts on what results in the decrease of personnel are also foreseen within Law No 244 of 2012. At the premise of Law 244, there was, in fact, the idea that, however, the resources remained unchanged and that what was saved by the staff could be redistributed on exercises and investment. To date we can say that this is not happening, in the sense that the reductions continue. From this point of view, the Defense is making a good contribution to the recovery of the public debt because, as an operation of staff reduction, I believe that there is no other piece of public administration doing such a costly operation in terms of numbers: we are talking about 50,000 people, but it is not about redundancies, it is clear. There is a process that does not involve redundancies, otherwise we needlessly frighten people and that is not what we need to do. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u58	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Madam President, we are pleased with Mrs Minister's detailed and, therefore, comprehensive answer. Given the strong political direction, which is the other pillar that emerges from the White Paper, the recommendation is that the appropriate rationalization, of which some examples have been made, should never fail the efficiency of the Armed Forces of our defence sector which, in our opinion, in addition to being maintained, must be accentuated.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u61	Mazzoni (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Madam Minister, I am partially satisfied with your reply. You are certainly not the Prime Minister of Defense who carries the cross of cuts: this is a process that has been going on for at least twenty years. I note that you have rightly pointed out that other European countries (such as France and Great Britain) are diminishing their defence budgets and that there is an imbalance between the new tasks that await the European Union in the face of the threats of this new century and the cuts in defence, which are likely to lead to a significant decrease in the operational capacity of the European Armed Forces. As regards the ageing of military personnel, there is a problem of the specificity of the military that has never been fully filled with content. The turn-over block certainly did not favour the ageing and I believe that Italy can afford anything except to have an old and therefore inefficient military instrument.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u64	MARTON (M5S). Minister, I am not satisfied because, regardless of which legislative instrument (Law No 244 of 2012 or the White Paper) it intends to use to reduce staff, it is clear that if there is a cut of 40,000 men compared to the current military budget, if we go from 170,000 to 150,000 there will be 20,000 people made redundant. If the other public administrations are cutting too, how will you, as stated in the White Paper, absorb the people sent away by the Defense? Don't you think that the income of citizenship can help your project to redefine all the Armed Forces? Don't you think it's time to implement this measure to help the future of public administration, defence and Italy in general?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u67	Rossi Luciano (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, we are certainly satisfied with the answer. We believe that, unlike the past, when we planned to do a lot and did little, we have now finally come to life to give concrete implementation to serious programmes, which clearly find additional difficulties today in this widespread emergency that we unfortunately know and in the cuts, which you wanted to remember being 26 percent in the defence sector. This is, therefore, a situation that adds to the difficulties. On the other hand, it is not up to me to give answers to Senator Marton, but there is a program that goes until 2024 and within such planning these things spread. This is not the time to generate further nervousness, we must be very responsible because we are talking about extremely sensitive issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u70	Orellana (Mist). Madam President, I am partially satisfied, and therefore inevitably partly dissatisfied, with the answer. On the one hand, I agree with the Minister with regard to low-tech factories and also those sectors with dual-use technologies, which I believe he referred to, where, in fact, public-private partnerships are a choice that I agree with. For the part relating to aspects of high technology, where there is a lot of research and development contribution and where there are patents, simply rely on globalization (which we live as an indispensable process, but not inevitable and which must be governed) and maintaining control through the golden power does not calm me enough. These are technologies that give real benefits to the Italian military plant, and I can also say European (I have no problems in this sense), and extend them to a world in which we see so many threats (especially in other areas, but which are close to us) I am not completely reassured. I would like to be more reassured about an Italian and, to the limit, European control of these technologies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u73	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I can only be satisfied because I see that there is this sharing in my reflection on this point. I hope to be even more pleased to see, in the forthcoming legislative measures that will apply the guidelines of the White Paper, these indications aimed at further reducing, if not eliminating, this auxiliary. Moreover, I believe that it will be an opportunity to make a reflection on how to arrive at a solution that, as you said, must be structured, ensuring that in the armed forces there are the generational replacement necessary and also this passage of deliveries between the apical figures, without reaching, precisely, the placement in auxiliary.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u74	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Pinotti for his helpfulness and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u75	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-05-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-456.ana.u76	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Wednesday 3 June, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.58 p.m.
