ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 25 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to more punctuality. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that, thank you and apologise to you and all the other colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1971, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u5	Mr President, when I learned from the press that a decree-law had been issued for the relaunch of the agricultural sector, I was very pleased and I thought that at last President Renzi, his Government and his majority had repented and had put such an important measure on the agenda, imagining, above all, the majestic and historical error that marked this Executive in the agricultural sector. I imagined, that is, the cancellation of the agricultural IMU. Unfortunately, in examining the measure, I realized that not only was there the elimination of the agricultural IMU, but its content was very poor. Turning briefly to the controversy that was raised at yesterday's sitting, where there was still a need for it, it is right to look into the reasons why the whole opposition has left the Chamber of the Committee on Agriculture. We did it for a very simple reason. The decree-law in question is dated 5 May - and will expire on 5 July in a few days' time - and the Commission has been incardinated exactly on 26 June. There was, therefore, no possibility of amending it, or at least of listening to someone who could give us information on some of the issues contained in the measure. It has been incardinated with a rapidization of its process which - in my opinion - does not have equal status in my long parliamentary history: that is, one day it is incardinated, the general debate begins, the time is given for tabling the amendments, but to do what? To do the charade, to make fun of us. Once again, the failure of this Government with regard to the issues of agriculture is truly dramatic. We no longer have anything to receive in this respect. We have considered this to be pointless and we are still doing a farce, that is, a scene, with the utmost respect for the institution in this House. Nobody is allowed to change anything, because the provision must be converted into law by July 5. Therefore, work is useless. I have always argued, even yesterday, that in fact the Senate has been abolished, with an advance of one year. The Senate has not really been given the opportunity to express itself fully, and not only on this but also on other measures. Why was this urgent decision taken? The reason is very simple: the milk quota system expired on 13 March. A careful and responsible government would begin its journey at least on January 1, 2015, when there were all the conditions to be able to elaborate a responsible measure and that could help. You will then see what hassles you will find yourself in, Mr. Deputy Minister, when some deadlines cannot be met by anyone. If the first deadline is August 31 - alas - I would like to understand between the times of conversion and those of publication, the subject who will have to ask Agea what times will have to respect? Is there time to submit such a request? I absolutely don't think so, so in a few months we'll have to fix the mess you've made. In addition, something very simple has happened in the House of Deputies: to try to please everyone, the measure passes with cross-cutting votes here and there. [[Comments by Deputy Minister Olivero.]] The Deputy Minister tells me you've all satisfied. Perhaps, however, you have not satisfied me for a very simple reason: everything that has been included in the provision is staggered. With absolute respect for colleagues in the House, as regards the SIAN, which has to manage the whole milk quota system, would it not have been more appropriate to think seriously and not by decree-law, to review - we have also discussed it in the Commission and in this House - the idea that you have on the supervised bodies? The truth is, you have no idea. Take a piece from here, a piece from there, and then the composition becomes ungovernable. And I will not dwell on other points for the simple reason that we have not been given any chance - I repeat - to be able to amend them. The decree-law intervenes in support of alluvial emergencies, but there were floods in 2012, 2013, 2014 and also at the beginning of 2015. What's the answer? Do you take the resources from the National Solidarity Fund and then have the demands presented to whom? The great invention added to the House, then, is related to the so-called sciroccal winds and was determined to please someone, and perhaps the Deputy Minister will tell me who privately, at a later moment. According to the norm, in order to be able to access the compensation, the wind that causes damage must reach the value 11 of the Beaufort scale. I have never seen a legislative measure defining in this detail any compensation for damages. But if the wind comes and destroys all the production, that its strength is equal to 11, 14 or 9 of the Beaufort scale, what difference does it make? That sounds like another mess to me, too. As far as the phytopaths are concerned, you have done well, and I recognize that, but it remains a doubt because you are always late and stop at 2016. What is happening in Puglia, Campania and many other areas of the country, the phenomenon that is destroying all olive groves, will stop perhaps in 2016 or would it have been better to organize, plan and above all encourage research? And on this point I will stop for a moment: we have often talked about the Agricultural Research Centre, but what is it doing? Have you put forward a proposal, an idea, a solution? At least one had to deepen the argument of an overwhelming nature regarding the Apulian olive system and the whole of Italy. With regard to another matter, you have included urgent measures to rationalise ministerial structures in Article 6. It is also clear from this article that Commissioner's management and G.C. must be abolished. Agensud. This may be fine; on the contrary, it is fine, but did the urgent decision need to be made to make this body disappear? It was necessary, at least, to establish a transitional regime, and especially in the ordinary passage, and instead the institution is deleted with a pen stroke. It would have been useful and appropriate to help the structure manager. Why delete it like that, with a pen stroke? I repeat that I agree that Commissioner's management cannot last forever, but what is the plan? Absorb the agency in the department? And what is your idea today for the irrigation system, with respect to the new department and to the Mezzogiorno? Do you have any idea about this? I don't think so. Do the financial resources allocated to the former Agensud go into the unique cauldron to continue to strike and not give opportunities for growth and development, even with these mechanisms, to the Mezzogiorno of Italy? This is the question that we ask, but there is no answer, because on the 5th day the decree-law will be converted. Today, of course, the text will come out of this House to be converted. These are the reasons why the LAG Group is against this measure. It contains something good but, in the end, it's a mixture, a mix, where you don't understand exactly what you're betting on. Mr. Deputy Minister, what model of agriculture do you want to compare with? And that is not polemical, because we know the commitment of you and the Minister you have given to the battles that are taking place in Europe. I must point out, however, that sometimes you and the Minister could go to Brussels instead of sending officials and executives - you may not have the time - because there you play the game; it is in Brussels that you play the game. With regard to all this, we are indeed witnessing, and have witnessed in the past, situations whose evidence cannot escape anyone. From orange without orange, from ham without pork to cheese without milk, it is a battle that we support, and we are the first to sign it. But one cannot be absent on these arguments, and it is right that the Government should come to report, as has been requested by others with a sense of responsibility. We want to conduct a common battle with you, and it is on these issues that we want to confront. I shall conclude, Mr President, by asking what is needed by agriculture. I think the time for improvisation is over, Mr. Representative of the Government. This is not the way to deal with agriculture and then, in the end, to say that it is the founding pillar of our economy. In these years, but also during previous Governments, nothing has changed: little more, little less. What have this Government and Parliament done with regard to agriculture? Nothing. Something more is needed. Production costs must be reduced. Once again, I repeat that social security costs are the highest in Europe. We need to reduce the cost of agricultural fuel and everything that follows, such as the cost system that has never been monitored. We need bureaucratic simplification, and we have said so in all languages. It is still not possible to keep up with cumbersome mechanisms. Mr Vice-Minister, we need to facilitate access to credit - and I am not talking about access to credit, but only access to credit - in order to give our farms a little space and the possibility of planning. All this, however, can happen if you have the courage to return to your steps, erasing the agricultural IMU - and you have to find it, to give the right answer to the world of agricultural enterprises - which is an ignoble tax that, for our agricultural enterprises, is not possible to bear. Today, with this measure, I would have expected something precisely on the subject of the agricultural IMU and some agenda on it, Mr Deputy Minister (at least one agenda is not denied to anyone). On the fight against counterfeiting and agromafie, I believe that today more than ever the protection of Made in Italy is necessary. We'll do the math on October 31st, when the great Expo event ends. But, from what is happening, there doesn't seem to be any good prospects. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by pointing out that there is a need to promote and encourage forms of associations between producers in relation to large-scale distribution. Italian agriculture needs this - but also something else, which I would have liked to add - to be competitive in Europe, first, and then in the world. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Olivero, the measure we are discussing introduces important measures to deal with some of the emergencies affecting the sector. As I have already said in this House on another occasion, in Italy the agricultural sector has so far been neglected, while I am convinced that it must take on a strategic importance in the overall plan of relaunching the Italian economy. Agriculture, in fact, is a sector able to combine different knowledge and skills and to promote a higher quality of life, through a healthy and correct diet, as shown by, among other things, in these months, the Expo of Milan. Agriculture is the keystone to addressing the great issues of the nourishment of the planet, to give the young generations important opportunities for work and above all stable, to act as a flyer to our tourism and made in Italy in the world. Agriculture, that is, is knowing a new centrality: from the Cinderella sector, today, in the common sense, it becomes the area with which we can affirm a new idea of modernity, able to combine the future and quality of life, development and sustainability. It is in essence the sector - in my opinion - able to make Italy compete more in the world, also for the richness of its territories and its excellences and for the productions of origin that in our country are so diversified, but also of great quality and tradition. And that is what we have seen with Expo, through the curiosity that it is collecting in thousands and thousands of citizens (if not in millions, as I hope). For all these reasons, there is a need for constant attention to be paid to the sector, which deserves to be put as one of the main priorities of this legislature, with framework actions that allow it to develop its potential to the maximum. If we remain in this line of reasoning, the current provision can be seen as a further piece, which comes after the connected, but to which other measures and other stronger signals must follow. There are many initiatives that can be put in place with the basic idea of bureaucratic simplification, on which - believe me, Vice Minister - very little has been done; incentives, innovation and resources for the overall growth of the sector. It is true that some incentives and measures have been introduced for young people (on which also in recent months there has certainly been an acceleration), but it is equally true that, from the fiscal point of view, there is still much to be done: I am thinking of the agricultural IMU and also of the abolition of tax concessions (and I am referring to the registration tax for mountain territories, which is causing, among other things, the abandonment of many plots of land). In order to come to the content of this measure, I would like to highlight two aspects, which, in my opinion, are of short-term concern, but not least important. The first is what concerns the so-called milk quotas: at last the dispute with Europe has been closed, although, once again, Italy has not made a good figure, showing that it is unreliable. Of course, the measures introduced by this measure will help farmers to cope with previous disputes. But what interests me most is that the increase in production, already announced in the plains (it speaks of two or three times more than current production), will certainly put in difficulty the mountain farms, which, because of the transport costs, the slope and the fragmentation of the funds, the poor practicability of the alpine pastures and the climatic difficulties, will never be able to compete with the large flat farms, for which the production costs are much lower. The prices of milk and cheese in the mountains are already at subsistence levels. By cutting milk quotas and liberalising production, costs will no longer be sustainable. If appropriate measures are not taken, if effective compensation measures are not taken, at European level but also at national level, mountain animal husbandry will disappear. Yesterday there was a hearing with European Commissioner Hogan; he was asked by the Councillors for agriculture in the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano to set up a specific observatory for mountain areas. I hope that this request will be accepted because the danger, this time, is really real. Let us not forget the role that mountain agriculture plays in relation to the territory on which it insists: it is an antidote against depopulation and the presence of farmers, even part-time farmers, allows to maintain on the territory resources that then engage in tourism, services and trade. Protecting mountain agriculture is not only protecting a segment of the agricultural economy - however significant - but also an entire social, environmental and economic fabric, which also affects the environmental balance of the plain and of course also the social cohesion of a territory. The recent and continuous floods that affected the Po Valley last year are there to prove it. This is why specific aid and incentives must be put in place to balance the imbalance that will be generated on the issue of milk with large flat farms. There is much talk, in recent months and days, of a Europe closer to the territory: this is also an opportunity to show that Europe is not only a sometimes enemy of the territories but, on the contrary, it is an institution able to understand also the territorial differences and above all to compensate for their imbalances and differences. The second aspect I would like to highlight is contained in Article 5 and concerns the annoying xylella. I followed with great attention the protests that took place in Puglia against the cutting of the centuries-old olive trees affected by the bacteria. It is natural that, on the part of the public, there is a reaction of this kind, when it comes to cutting secular trees that are part of the tradition and are the symbol of a territory. We experienced a similar story years ago in Trentino with apple fucks: a disease that has devastatingly affected our orchards and forced us to replace them almost entirely. However, that experience - as I pointed out also in the Commission in relation to the xylella issue - has taught us the importance of timely, capillaries and generalized interventions, which must be accompanied absolutely by a fair budget of financial resources in order not to leave the farmers alone. Well, then, that new resources have been made available to combat this as well as other emergencies related to infections, as well as for farms that have suffered damage due to flooding events. I believe, however, that, along with all these urgencys, there is another equally important one. Just last week I submitted an urgent question to Mr Martina. We are told by the employers' organisations that there is a difficulty in accessing the contributions provided for in the new CAP for the period 2014-2020. The way in which contributions are requested is particularly complicated. In addition, the European Union has introduced penalties - in the form of a reduction in the contribution - for those who do not submit applications within the prescribed time limit. In order to avoid the loss of resources borne by Italian agriculture, work is being done to obtain from Brussels an extension to 10 July of the application of penalties. Brussels has already granted one for the submission of applications from 15 May to 15 June. There are only five approved rural development programmes 2014-2020; on the other hand, some regions have seen their plan rejected, returned to the sender with an avalanche of observations: more than 600, for example, for Puglia and Basilicata. Realistically, the provision of resources related to rural development programmes will only begin from the second half of 2016 and even in 2017 in the less virtuous regions, many of which still have to spend substantial part of the budget of the last programme 2007-2013: about 25% Basilicata and 24% Abruzzo. In the face of such a scenario, a precise picture is needed: it is useful to know how many questions were collected by the Agea, how many were expected until 15 June and how many were presented in a simplified form. I therefore asked the Minister with the question whether a permanent table should be set up at the Ministry to deal with this issue. We cannot in any way afford to lose the resources and, in particular, to make them lose to farmers. Just as it is important not to be disfigured in the eyes of Europe, especially at a time when we all loudly call for a Europe closer to our citizens. I would ask you to speak, Mr Vice-Minister. I know that you are very sensitive and very attentive to the events in this area and you have shown this in following all the measures in the Commission and also in this House. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u7	Senator Casaletto is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u8	Mr President, the agri-food sector is an essential strategic component of quality Made in Italy and its development on domestic and international markets is the foundation of the country's economic strength. The agricultural world needs much more important and structural measures for its growth, but the good employment situation in the sector, despite the continuing state of crisis, demonstrates the dynamism and flexibility of agriculture, which, while suffering like all other sectors the devastating effects of the crisis, has managed not to lose jobs and create jobs. At this time, more than ever, the agricultural world needs fundamental support. Greater attention should be paid to agriculture, animal husbandry and agro-food as a whole, not only to the legislator, but to the information and training system in general, starting with a careful reading of economic data and their profound interpretation. Today's debate, in fact, commits us to a decree-law on issues that involve extraordinaryness, necessity and urgency: the transition from production quotas to free competition in the dairy sector, the requirements for the establishment of inter-branch organisations, interventions in favour of the olive-oil sector, access to the National Solidarity Fund in favour of farms that have suffered damage due to flooding events and infections of organisms harmful to plants and finally - as is well known - the reorganization of Agensud. With this measure, Italy assimilates the pathologies to exceptional weather events as causes to declare the state of calamity. The olive-oil sector, the absolute excellence of the Italian agricultural system, is experiencing years of severe crisis, so as to compromise the survival of many farms. It is mainly determined by two factors. On the one hand, there is a drastic fall in prices, in view of a substantial increase in production costs, in particular those relating to social security contributions; on the other hand, the sector has been affected by adverse climatic conditions. The very serious situation of the annoying xylella and the huge damage it is causing have recently brought attention to the diseases and the economic damage they can cause and cause. For interventions in favour of companies damaged by the spread of xylella, the fund's budget increased by only one million euros for 2015 and 10 million euros for 2016. A good compromise is the fines due in three years, without interest, for milk producers who in 2014-2015 exceeded the quotas imposed by the European Union and who have the possibility to pay the related penalties in three equal annual instalments without any interest. Reinforcing the fight against unfair market practices is acceptable. At last the level of protection of the farmers and the producers of milk is strengthened, the periodic control of the average costs of production from ISMEA is increased and the possibility is introduced, from the Ministry of the agricultural policies, to signal to the Antitrust the possible violations and the increase of the relative sanctions. Monitoring of the average production costs of raw milk is also entrusted to ISMEA, to prevent unjustified buying or selling conditions. Support for the fisheries sector is also acceptable. The National Solidarity Fund for Fisheries and Aquaculture is increased by EUR 250,000 for 2015 and EUR 2 million for 2016, in order to provide compensation for damage to productions and structures not included in the annual insurance programme, in favour of fishing and aquaculture enterprises in the territories affected by climatic adversities of exceptional intensity, starting from 2012 and until the date of entry into force of the Decree-Law. I conclude with an exhortation: let us reconstruct the food supply chain. I would like to see a transparent agricultural supply chain, by implementing the legislation for a "narrante" label and a public list of suppliers, which allows consumers to choose products free from the exploitation of work in agriculture, thereby marginalising the relocation of Italian companies. Large-scale distribution, for example - which is the terminal of the supply chain - could play a decisive role in product traceability. In the last step the supermarkets add a substantial reload of the product price. Multinationals could also communicate supplier names and product source areas. Very often, however, the latter hide behind fantastic privacy rules. In this regard, I have tabled an agenda, because I believe that the product of a sick supply chain discharges costs and inconveniences to the weakest people, such as slave workers, often migrants of African origin or Eastern Europe. Reconstructing the supply chain therefore allows you to show the sick system, reveal its causes and mechanisms, because in the year of Expo you cannot feed the planet by exploiting work and agriculture only for the large-scale distribution and the thriving multinationals. [[Applause from the Mixed and Mixed-SEL Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u9	Senator Dalla Tor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are debating today on the broad lines is an important step in the process of unblocking the agricultural sector. It intervenes in a timely manner on certain emergencies to be governed - I am referring to the overcoming of the milk quota regime and xylella - and it makes important signs of change, also in terms of the governance of agriculture. Therefore, I cannot fail to make a generally positive assessment of the measure. The form of the decree, on the other hand, and its imminent expiry have not given the Senate and the Commission the opportunity to examine in detail the measure itself. I note, however, that it has long been debated in the House, where important changes have been made, with contributions from all the Groups, thus being able to interpret the needs of the entire parliamentary arc. The decree therefore constitutes a passage of a broader picture in the context of the measures foreshadowed by the Government for the revival of the agricultural sectors in crisis, of support of the agricultural enterprises affected by exceptional events and of rationalization of ministerial structures. It is, moreover, part of a particular asymmetry of the agricultural sector where, in the face of a strong growth in GDP, there has been a reduction in agricultural income per employee. In fact, Confagricoltura's data show that income per employee fell by 11% in 2014, with a value lower than in 2005, while in the same period the sector's GDP increased by 6%, an increase ten times higher than in industry. Faced with this dualism - increasing GDP, decreasing income - this decree must be considered the beginning, albeit important and significant, and not the conclusion of a broader project which aims to reorganize the agricultural sectors, defend farmers' incomes, promote Italian agri-food abroad and simplify the bureaucratic and administrative burden of farms. That is why my Group is satisfied with the decree-law, but it is also aware that much remains to be done. Coming then to the substance of the measure, certainly Articles 1 and 2 are decisive with regard to the reorganization of the milk market, which has suffered and is undergoing a serious crisis due both to the inability to face foreign competition, and to the inherent weakness of a sector characterized by a myriad of small producers. This is both a financial and market weakness, as the small producer does not have the strength either to grow or to obtain better selling prices. The milk quota regime ceased on 31 March 2015 and the decree-law, on the one hand, aims to provide an immediate response to the need to govern the first months of the new regime and, on the other hand, to lay the foundations for the urgent reorganization of trade relations in the supply chain. The aim is therefore to accompany the management of the supply chain, while fully respecting the freedom of the reference market, with rules of transparency and balance between the different stages and stages of the supply chain. As regards the new scheme referred to in Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which applies to new standard contracts for the purchase of milk, this provides that such contracts are concluded before delivery, contain a fixed price, established in the contract and calculated on the market indicators, and indicate the volume delivered and the quality or composition of the raw milk delivered. The new type of contract also contains rules for the greater protection of producers, providing for deadlines and payment procedures, arrangements for the collection and delivery of milk, rules applicable in cases of force majeure and resolution clauses. As regards contracts for the supply of agricultural products, it is important to recall paragraph 2-a of Article 3 (which concerns interbranch organisations) in which it is expected that these organizations, in the drafting of standard contracts relating to the sale of agricultural products and for the supply of processed products, are called to ensure compliance with the conditions laid down in Article 62 of Decree-Law No 1 of 2012 (i.e. the written form, the indication of the duration, quantity and characteristics of the product sold, the price, the delivery and payment methods and the prohibition of conduct imposing unjustifiedly burdensome contractual conditions and any other unfair commercial conduct). Article 3 then introduces a new framework for interbranch organisations. The first paragraphs concern only interbranch organisations in the milk sector, but in the following paragraphs measures are introduced concerning interbranch organisations in all agricultural sectors (cereals, rice, sugar, fodder and so on). A representativeness of at least 40% of the relevant sector is needed in these areas. I conclude with a few comments on the olive-oil sector, which represents an Italian and European agricultural excellence and which has been experiencing for some years a serious crisis, both on the internal market and on the international market, a crisis that would undermine the survival of many companies. On the one hand, the market situation has seen a gradual increase in consumption, with an increasing demand for quality oils; on the other hand, there has been a drastic fall in prices in the face of a substantial increase in production costs, in particular social security contributions. The decree-law therefore lays down urgent provisions for the recovery of the productive and competitive potential of the olive-oil sector and establishes a National Solidarity Fund for companies affected by alluvial events and infections of organisms harmful to plants, with priority for damage related to the spread of the annoying xylella, the cynipid of chestnut and golden flavescence. Access to the fund is also extended to adverse weather conditions and damage to stocks of raw materials caused by exceptional events over the last three years. The National Solidarity Fund for the fisheries sector is then financed, the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy are rationalised and, finally, the single national committees (CUN) are to be set up for the sectors most representative of the agricultural and food system, in order to ensure transparency in contractual relations between market operators and price formation. For all these reasons, the Group of People's Area expresses a positive opinion on the decree-law in question; decree that - I repeat - must be considered preparatory to other important interventions expected from the agricultural world, starting from the problem of the taxation of each land through the agricultural IMU. We will work to remove this tax and continue on the path of comparison and a method that focuses on the protagonism of the quality sectors of our agri-food sector. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u11	Mr President, the general debate is taking place on a measure which was sent to us by the House on 17 June and which - if I am not mistaken - will expire on 5 July. This is therefore a debate which has the meaning of taking action on a measure which has already been closed down. This isn't the first time. That's the norm. The House of Deputies holds as much as possible the measure adopted by the Government, which, theoretically (I say theoretically because the Italian Constitution is a bit like a kind of elastic, which sometimes tends to break up and sometimes contract), should contain norms with a character of necessity and of unmistakable urgency, which I think does not contain. This is yet another measure that tends to fill deep gaps in our legislation. We are beginning to talk about measures to support the agricultural undertaking affected by flooding. We have been saying for years that a framework law must be adopted on the subject of damage, which automatically takes place because of the events taking place. We cannot make a law every time a flood occurs, first of all because there will be more and more floods (climate change, in fact, is not a prediction of some excited environmentalist). Therefore, first of all, it must be borne in mind that floods will occur more and more. Secondly, since our territory is very little managed from the point of view of the hydrogeological estate, such floods will cause damage. Let us then make a general rule, intervening only to define the financial envelopes that, if anything, must supplement those that are already provided for in the law of establishment, and the Government acts accordingly (when damage occurs, we intervene in a certain way). If we do not do so, we will risk continuing to do the discriminatory operations that have been done in recent years with the legislation of interventions around the natural disaster, with the consequence that there are Regions, like Sardinia, that have been hit fiercely by disastrous events and that have had no help, and other Regions, that belong to the center-north of Italy, that have had more substantial and systematic aid. In other words, natural calamity is used to make differences. There is a second aspect that I think is useful to remember. If a decree-law, in order to be defined as such, must contain rules of urgency and necessity, I wonder what is involved in the provisions relating to the rationalization of the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and Forestry Policy. We do nothing but take action on public administration, both local and national, and delegated laws that give the government the opportunity to intervene with legislative decrees in this matter. All we do is talk about reforms and, then, we mess with episodic interventions that stick in decree-laws that, thus, no longer have the character of necessity and urgency they must have. This measure - and I say this regardless of the benefits that some agricultural undertakings will have - is, first and foremost, lacking. We should have supported our agricultural production system while canceling the agricultural IMU and, above all, canceling it definitively because it is an unfair tax that affects a production system in a discriminatory way compared to others. We should have done better on the subject of animal diseases and phytopathologies; we should have helped to defend our agri-food product, its quality and authenticity, from the aggressions that are being consumed in the Community: I cannot see the pecorino cheese made with powders! [[Applause from the Senator Council]] It is an unacceptable shame which cannot be consumed on the altar of the economic and commercial interests of other countries. From this point of view I am one who fights the battle of the right protection of our agri-food quality, an identity quality of the productive culture of our country, which must be defended by everyone, especially by the Government as well as by Parliament. We should have done, and we have not done so - and I say this to the Government - a framework law on damage caused by natural disasters, in such a way that the Government's intervention is automatic in relation to forecasts of situations of that kind: when certain conditions arise immediately the interventions of the Government both in agricultural matters and in general economic matters, as well as in support of the populations, and in relation to interventions to improve and maintain our territory. Mr President, I would like to mention this once again, also urging the Senate Presidency to establish a relationship with the House of Deputies before it is finally abolished - and if this happens - perfect bicameralism and instead proceed to the realization of an imperfect bicameralism in which each House takes its measure from beginning to end and the other makes a recording operation and substantial ratification of the work carried out by others. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u12	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u13	Mr President, today I will speak mainly to you citizens who are listening to us because there is no dialogue in this House, there is no listening, there is no intention of improving things, as I shall go and demonstrate. This measure was incardinated in the Committee on Agriculture on the afternoon of 17 June, the deadline for amendments was set for Monday 22 June at 6 p.m., then, on Tuesday 23 the general debate began, after we were told that no improvement measures would pass: the series is useless to talk about. Methodologically, there should have been a general discussion on the measure, according to which the criticalities to be corrected with amending proposals would have been highlighted. In this case it was not possible because the time was short, given the continuing discussion in the Chamber of Deputies, also because the President of the Formigoni Commission was unable to influence the other branch of Parliament. Also in this measure, as in the connected one, articles have entered that have nothing to do with it, without an overall view of the problems of agriculture: I would like to say a train used to add wagons, which given the theme can only be cattle wagons. I will not talk about the things that are not there and that I would like them to be there, and vice versa, as other colleagues have done with regard to the IMU, agricultural gas oil, the State Forestry Corps, the Rural Development Programme (RDP) and so on. But let's go with order. The first six paragraphs of Article 1 allow farmers who would have exceeded the amount of milk allocated to them to make payments in three years without interest. I have already spoken on 6 May on this subject, and I have never been given an answer to the question I will be asking here (on the subject of dialogue between the deaf). The national database of the zootechnic registry, certified by the European Community since 13 February 2006, says that on 1 December 2014 Italy had a million and 276.577 cows in lactation, a decrease of about 15,000 cows compared to six months earlier, therefore with a trend downhill in the last three years. This number was also included in the number of nutritious cows: animals, these animals, which must only feed calves (it is called a cow-vintage line), and their milk cannot be marketed for a specific Community regulation. Let's try to understand. The average milk production per year, albeit different per breed, on a statistically significant sample that includes the best farms in the North, almost all of the Frisian breed, is 87,3 quintals per cow per year, as evidenced in the bulletin of the controls of the productivity of milk 2014 of the Italian Association of Breeders, in the period 1 October 2013-30 September 2014, of 18,036 farms. Now, if we multiply the number of cows for average production, we do not exceed the general guaranteed quantity allocated to us by the European Community (according to EU Regulation 326 of 2012). Perhaps for the Ministry and for Agea arithmetic is an opinion. How is it possible that in the previous four years there has been no superproduction and with a smaller number of cows in this year there is superproduction? Mystery! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Another question to which I have not received an answer is the following. Already from September 2014 the Ministry predicted that in the milk year April 2014-March 2015 Italy would have splaphoned after five years of constant production. Excuse me, Mr. Vice Minister, but I had already asked you these questions, even if you never answered me. Therefore, I address your superior, the Minister, even if I see him more committed to being the Expo's guest at this time than the Minister. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In September 2014, for obvious technical reasons, only the July data was available. How could it be said that it would produce more than the general guaranteed quantity? With foresight? You don't know what you're talking about, so explain it to us. Was it not by chance that we wanted to encourage the sale of quotas, since it was the last year to ingratiate those who had the shares of paper? So you protect your friends, allowing them to purchase or sell shares, with a turnover of about 90 million euros; a bit like the decree on popular banks: there you have seen that those who bought the shares knew. You see, Mr. Deputy Minister, you really must be a forerunner, because according to the technical report that accompanies the measure mentioned in the dossier of the Study Service on page 26, with the data of ten months provided by Agea it was assumed for 2014-2015 that the share of the two percent, which involved a fine of almost 63 million euros, was exceeded; instead, the increase is less than one percent. Despite the almost complete data (ten months out of twelve) there was a 50 - percent error. Is this the Italian programming capacity? Mr Vice-Minister, last autumn, as agricultural President of the European Council, he fought not to increase the fat matter of milk, as many European countries wished, which would have allowed us to increase the quota allocated to us and not to see ourselves forced today to pay this superlevy. So you and Coldiretti sang victory in Europe; how do you feel now that you charge 28 million euros to farmers? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Article 2, paragraph 1, is a masterpiece: it is necessary to decide who must pay these 28 million euros fine, which in reality is not a fine, but serves to "cover the costs of the disposal of milk that exceeds the reference quantity." But did you do an analysis to see if it really costs EUR 27.83 per quintal to dispose of it? The 28 million fines are the result of a higher production of 7.305,000 quintals by a group of farmers, compensated by a lower production of 6.244.390 quintals. Therefore the quantity produced in excess would, always according to Agea, equal to about 1.060.000 quintals, which must be multiplied by 27,83 euros, and here explained the 28 million fine. Instead of charging all those who have produced the 7,305,000 quintals of excess milk, with an amount of about 4 euros per quintal, a perverse mechanism has been invented for which few farmers who have passed more will pay everything, forcing them to fail. I remember for the non-experts that today milk is paid EUR 32 per quintal. It is a Community regulation which determines that the exceeding of the production limit entails the payment of a penalty for all those who have marketed a quantity exceeding their quota. As I anticipated in my speech on 6 May, in which I said that you would review the system of recalculation based on data, the fact has occurred on time. Moreover, you do not want to consider that by charging a few large amounts, these will be forced to invent some judicial recourse and, given Bible times, the system will be blocked. As with the debitory records you have sent in recent months, today I understand that some judges have granted the suspension of payment, then in a few years you will enter on the merits. This decree-law is a continuation of all the laws on milk quotas; the extreme ratio is always the same: to justify the work of the apparatus and the unions behind. Among the various parameters that help to define whether a law is a good law is the amount of appeals brought against it. Well, the milk quota laws put in place by Parliament, from No 468 of 1992 to No 33 of 2009, have been challenged before both ordinary and administrative justice by a number of unimaginable companies. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The total number of companies that have made appeals year after year exceeds 220,000. I think you should ask yourself a few questions if the sector you should regulate is turned against you. The proposed umpteenth law that will produce a new avalanche of appeals means abdicating to the main role of politics; normal cum wheat salt is not a fact that concerns only the dairy sector. Another fabulous gem of this measure, in paragraph 4 of Article 2, are the functional implementations of the fund for investments in the dairy sector (Article 1, paragraph 214 of Law No 190 of 23 December 2014). Fund that served in the 2015 Stability Act for the following interventions: increased animal longevity, improvement of animal welfare aspects, study of genetic resistance of diseases, strengthening food safety, reduction of antibiotic treatments. In addition to these five points, there is public research aimed at improving milk quality and promotional campaigns. Wow, that's a lot of shit. With so many resources, I imagine: 8 million euros in 2015 and 50 in 2016 and 2017. In 2014, cow's milk farmers were 34,231 (the figure is obtained from page 34 of the study service dossier); it means 234 euros per farm: what a helper! But if you want to mourn you have to read the next paragraph, 215, which provides that the contribution cannot exceed the amount of 15,000 euros per farm or 200,000 euros for farms that also operate in processing and marketing. There are so many money available that it is better to put limits in order to avoid binge. Be quiet, it is not over here; in fact, in Article 4 of this measure, in order to help the olive oil sector, which is also in serious difficulty, 4 million euros are saved from the total 8 available. Therefore, returning to the previous speech will no longer be 234 euros per company, but 117 euros. Think of the administrative cost that requires these 117 euros; a madness, an indecency, an almsgiving to be given to some friends. Again, Article 2 asks those who produce milk and sell it to protect themselves by entering into a contract with the buyer party for a period of one year, in order to stabilize the price. If this had any rationality, it should be extended to all productions: chickens, turkeys, pigs, rabbits. Instead, in Article 6-bis the CUNs are reworded. Where's the rational? We return to article 1, paragraph 6- bis added to the Chamber, which gives the line of address so that Agea returns to manage the computer part, today managed by SIAN. Not only is the formula adopted too broad, allowing the custody of third parties, but the subject has also been discussed in other measures, as usual to bits and bits. However, I am pleased that the "articulate reflection" presented in the answer to the urgent questioning to the Minister by the 5 Star Movement in the Chamber - act 2-00908 - on the future of the Agea-Sin relationship, has materialized in this device. Article 3 on the recognition of inter-branch organisations is a bureaucratic byzantineism, which could theoretically have a meaning and function, as is the case in other European contexts, but which will be difficult to implement by us. The assumption is that the supply chain tables already operating in the Ministry are struggling to take off, as I have pointed out in some parliamentary questions concerning the pig sector. However, paragraph 3 is formidable: interbranch organisations may request compulsory contributions for the performance of their institutional purposes and in particular for the promotion of products in their respective supply chain... even if they are not members of the organisation. In addition, inter-branch organisations will have access to public funds. What if a director of this organization were to be awarded €1.9 million of annual salary (the figure is not a coincidence)? And if you organize a beautiful advertising campaign with some complacent television for tens of millions of euros, what is the power of the simple agricultural operator? Article 165 of Regulation No 1308 of 2013 applies to nothing, because it is sufficient that there is a beneficiary of that activity and that one is obliged to pay. In addition, paragraph 2 of Article 1 of that regulation, as my colleague said, is formidable and even allows the banana commodity table to form an inter-branch organisation. This will be yet another bureaucratic carriage that farmers will be forced to pay. I would like to conclude by talking about Article 6a, another article on the transparency of contractual relations in agricultural sectors. Today the national single commissions (CUN) are practically 4 and concern rabbits in Verona, pigs in Mantua and cuts of swine and fat and lard in Parma. As I have already pointed out with questions, the CUN on pigs in Mantua often does not work and one of the two delegations does not participate in the price formation; therefore, the problem is not the CUN itself, but the implementing regulation. We do not understand why the CUN does not work in Mantua, while the freight exchange of Modena that takes place on Monday functions. It is enough to read the two regulations to understand the difference: in Modena, in the cases at issue, an authoritative arbitration panel intervenes, which is recognized for its competence, balance and seriousness. This article calls for the formation of numerous CUNs, subject to the control of the Ministry, in many areas of our agricultural food system. We do not understand how the Ministry can cope with more work (we think of all administrative controls) without burdens on public finance; in fact, it is not enough to write there will be no additional expenses so that they do not occur. I am beginning to conclude, but the arguments I would have liked to have dealt with in relation to the decree-law in question are indeed many. In conclusion, this is yet another mockery of a measure with few lights and many shadows. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Candiani and Di Maggio Senators]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u14	Senator Amidei is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, by carefully reading the measure under consideration for the conversion of Decree-Law No 51 of 2015, I have endeavoured to place myself in a situation of objectivity and criticality in order to actually understand the advantages, reasons and principles with which it was drawn up. Frankly, reading that we are trying to solve the crisis in some areas and that we are trying to relaunch agriculture, in my opinion, is at least a very bold way of representing, perhaps even with presumptuous expressions, the crisis in agriculture. I must say that it is also true that we must be content in life, and the farmers have always made this a reason for life. I know him, that of agriculture is a world where there is no luxury, where many times the business economy is also family economy: you live with what your garden and your land give; it is however a lifestyle aimed at saving. However, I do not think it is right to mock farmers. I do not think it is right to talk about relaunching agriculture with this measure which has absolutely nothing to relaunch. Alas, you're still wasting your time. In fact, the real problem is not so much having missed an opportunity to affect agriculture, but continuing to waste time giving concrete answers to the world of agriculture. Within a little while, on the merits of the reasons why I seriously and seriously criticize this measure. We have heard repeated in this House that this Government has done nothing to significantly affect agriculture, which means that it could and had the great opportunity to remove the agricultural IMU from agricultural land, buildings and appliances and did not do so: it would have been a tangible and concrete way of helping agriculture. The government also had the opportunity to leave the facilities on agricultural diesel. We know that Italy is one of the countries where the cost of fuel, even the cost per kilometre, is one of the highest in Europe, if not the highest. What did the government do? He took away the benefits on agricultural gas oil. Does this mean helping the way agriculture is? The government says, however, that other measures have been envisaged. A short time ago, a measure called simplification in agriculture was adopted. Red tape is one of the worst burdens in the industry today. The government, therefore, issues a measure that speaks of simplification and it is true: it has simplified itself as complicated. It is a hymn to absolute complication; it is absolutely not a way of helping the world of agriculture. Let us see what is effective, concrete in this measure: we are touching important sectors, which are strongly in crisis such as the dairy sector, and what is done, what is written in this measure, how is it helped? We have heard about it: there are no milk quotas after 31 years. The producers, the farmers, who have been living for generations, carefully cultivating their land to feed the cattle and to produce good milk, the so-called Made in Italy we fill our mouths with and what do we do? We are faced with a price, we have heard of it, which is really shameful and, among other things, with even more dangerous prospects, because if we look at the context of European countries, we even pay less for milk. But what perspective do we give? Attention, in the measure we give a perspective, we give the possibility to indemnify the fines related to milk quotas. Wow, I'm helping. Congratulations. But what is this help? The installment takes place if the fine is more than 50% of the production and if however the penalty is more than 5,000 euros. But do you know what 5,000 euros are worth for a farm? They have a very important value. Many times that figure doesn't even represent a year's income. Let's at least reduce the amount, this begging. Let's reduce it, at least. That is what we do for the dairy sector. That's all you do. Then there are the bank bonds that we made insurance. But do we make fun of ourselves or do we actually want to help our farmers? Then we talk about the problem of annoying xylella, which mainly affects Puglia. It is indeed a major problem that needs to be addressed, but it is done with really ridiculous sums. There is even talk of increasing the national solidarity fund by EUR 1 million for the current year and then, the following year, to EUR 10 million. We are even talking about the fisheries and aquaculture sector. But we know what we have made available to help these realities if they were among those who have suffered damage from calamitous events, so it is not an action to help regardless but only if there have been damage from calamitous events, understood as flooding. How can the fisheries and aquaculture sector be helped? With 250,000 euros. Are you kidding me? Do we really want to affect agriculture? But does the Minister know about agriculture? Do you know what the conditions of our territory are? We talk about pathologies and rightly refers to the annoying xylella. I have tabled an agenda on this subject and I hope it will be accepted. There is also another important pathology, which affects hundreds, if not thousands, of hectares of land, which is kiwi cancer. The pseudomonas syringae actinidiae is a bacterium that causes serious damage with extirpations and nobody helps them. Another problem, perhaps better known as a firefight, is the erwinia amylovora, which affects many pomace, also in this case creating damage. And here we do not lend help, when it would be enough to add a measure to this measure that we are going to vote on. Attention: we would help those farms if they were affected by pathologies that would compromise the plant, the life of the plant, the farms and our farmers. Alas, a great opportunity has been missed. There is also a passage on the incidence, in a sort of representation of how categories, or sectors, must be represented. And here too the percentage should be raised a little to obtain greater incisiveness and greater weight, before a war is waged between the poor, and between trade unions or trade unions. So this sort of national solidarity fund is very marginal. I'm gonna finish. Another big problem is to understand how the national Single Commissions will be able to make fair prices for our farms. We should have a real and significant impact on the world of agriculture with real and serious measures. But here, Mr. Deputy Minister, you give the mint to those with acute laryngitis, with a strong risk that it will become chronic. This means that we give that sort of palliative, that freshness that lasts a few seconds, and then the evil comes out in all its gravity. The big problem, Mr Deputy Minister, is that if this situation becomes chronic, we not only take away the farmers' voices, but we kill our agriculture. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u16	She is registered to speak Senator Pignedoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u17	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating, it has been said, intervenes on the key points of the agricultural problems, as Senator Bertuzzi said initially. Volatility of prices, imbalance and weakness of the productive subjects within the supply chain, the aggression of increasingly frequent and unknown diseases, interventions on the public instruments that manage the European resources. This is a measure relating to two major sectors, dairy and olive growing. Strategic sectors on which our country must further increase its productive capacity and its competitive capacity, but even before its own ability to maintain companies. We are faced with very strong contradictions. Higher demand for supply capacity and, despite this, market prices below production costs. A weakness of sectors that have high product quality, but too much fragmentation of enterprises. High-end productions, but insufficient organizational capacity by producers. Within this scenario of concerns about the holding of companies (even for serious lack of liquidity) the planned actions become significant. With regard to the dairy sector, the measures relating to the possibility of instalments of payment in three instalments, without interest, become important: the levy due because of the surpluses of milk produced in the last milk year. On this article, further provisions have been introduced during the conversion to allow the extension of the audience of possible persons eligible for compensation. A change of which we understand the reasons, but which must be handled very carefully because this extension runs the risk of exhausting the availability of the amount paid by the producers, not allowing the fund for structural intervention in the dairy sector to be fed. Resources needed for structural changes in the sector for a real recovery. As we have asked on the agenda that we have presented on this passage, accepting that the Government has made a specific commitment to ensure that Agea's maximum rigour is applied in the application of the procedures for the compensation of the levy, so that the order of priority set out in the current legislation is respected and that the decree defining the criteria for access to the contributions provided for in the fund is quickly issued. Another important point is the increase in the fund of the olive sector, which rises to 32 million euros, aimed at the recovery plan of a sector that can only partially satisfy a growing demand at both national and international level, which has prospects and has real but unexpressed potential. Here again, on this issue of the revival of olive growing, we welcomed the commitment that the Government has made to an agenda that underlines the importance of scientific research, indispensable to increase and improve the efficiency of Italian olive growing. In this direction the commitment goes to complete and strengthen the research already underway, such as the project financed by the Ministry of Agricultural Policy, which is leading the University of Tuscia, which is already at an advanced stage, but which needs further funding to come to an end. This must also be a concrete signal: there can be no real project of revival and true innovation, on strategic sectors in particular, if the productive world does not move in harmony and in parallel with the research system. It is expected - and we approve it today - that the solidarity fund will increase to EUR 21 million for companies affected by damage caused by the spread of the annoying xylella, which has also extended to other climatic adversities, which are intensifying from year to year, as this is a major problem for our agricultural system. More than two million are still expected for the Fisheries Solidarity Fund, for fish companies affected by exceptional weather hardships, from 2012 until the entry into force of the Conversion Act. Action is taken on the rationalisation and efficiency of instruments and institutions: there is the possibility of Agea direct management of the SIAN or with third parties, following the completion of a public evidence procedure, i.e. on an infrastructure that is decisive for the management and control of European resources. We know how sensitive this infrastructure is and how decisive transparent and efficient management is. It is also delicate because it is a question of identifying different ways from the existing one and of intervening in order to avoid the distortions that that system has shown so far, but it is necessary to do so without stopping the activity of providing and controlling European resources. I would like to point out this, Mr Vice-Minister, that we are going to calculate exactly the system of trust and be careful about the risk of blocking the activity, because we would actually be entering a difficult phase on this. A new discipline of inter-branch organisations is finally introduced, encouraging the need for aggregation that this sector requires: it is not sufficient or even exhaustive, but it is an indispensable basis and premise. As we have seen, these are interventions of a different nature and on different productions, but we are not faced with a list in scattered order and with assistance measures. This is a measure that fits into a precise plan: this is a piece of a project that this Government is implementing in this legislature. The objective that all the measures imply is included in a single objective that this Government is facing, the theme of competitiveness as an essential condition for the agricultural sector to be able to deploy its growth potential as a contribution to the more general need for recovery and growth of the economy of the country and, through this, contribute to the safeguarding of the income of the agricultural enterprise. Growth of ability to compete, not defend rents: this can no longer work in a world that has emerging countries in the race, also on agricultural productions and of good quality. For this reason, it is not a question of generalized, rainy and distributed interventions; we are talking about supporting instruments and improving their efficiency, as well as targeted funding according to established criteria, and supporting systems and aggregations rather than individualities, because this needs the Italian agri-food industry in the face of the challenge of internationalization. In the world market you don't go one by one, in an agri-food like the Italian one characterized by strong excellences, but of small size: you go with systems and aggregations to transfer the best of Made in Italy and products, but strengthening also the producers and not to their detriment. Colleagues, I understand then that there is a game of the parties for which the opposition opposes, but here we are faced with the undeniable and a program of interventions that had never been seen before. Other than the absence of the government: the priority goes to young people, as a precondition for talking about the future in agriculture, according to what Commissioner Hogan rightly said yesterday at the hearing. A young plan that is being built piece by piece, unprecedented: from zero-rate loans to reductions on recruitment, to substantial resources (over 80 million) for young people in agriculture, to the theme of difficult access to land, to the land bank in ISMEA, approved a few weeks ago. I understand that there are titles to be presented again and again as a mantra. It is true: simplification and bureaucracy are one of the great problems of the agricultural world, which is the most vexed by cards and complications, but it is time to take a step forward, not just indicate the titles. Here a new phase is beginning: from dematerialisation of registers to the single register of controls, to computerization of procedures, which eliminates intermediates, which simplifies procedures. It is a cultural revolution and the opposition must say whether it is in or if it goes on with slogans, dramatizing over everything, if it wants to build or play to make the whole grass a bundle, as Senator Gaetti always represents. We are talking about actions that have always been mentioned in a long list of possible theorists and never come true. Now it has begun concretely: a single business file; single database of certificates; introduction of advance payments; precompiled CAP demand (of course very disputed, also because some errors were perhaps avoidable, but it is not easy to change strongly and in the stages of change it is not easy not to make them); incentives; tax credits for those who make network of enterprises, for those who make innovation, for those who want to measure themselves on e-commerce; new spaces, new market bands to be won to the best in agri-food. It's a new approach, it's not resources provided regardless. It opened up, the hood on the agricultural agencies was found. It was the Democratic Party that started this battle with determination against conservativeism of all kinds, against the defense of the existing. I'm sorry about Senator Ruvolo, but he's moving on. No pieces here and there. Not only has the related agriculture marked the path, but the actions are already in place. The research system is decreasing the dispersion centers, increasing specificity and rationalising tools, spaces and professionalism. The system of agricultural payments - SIN - the relationship between Agea and the regional Agea has been called into question; now the issue of controls will be dealt with, thirdness as an essential principle for the transparency and real objectivity of controls. More precise modalities and functions are being defined than ISMEA and ISA financial instruments. There is a need to revise the immense heritage of the system institutions, land, locations, experimental companies that are sometimes not exactly experimental and are based on the reallocation of financial resources and competences, new relationships between the public and private. Here, in the measure under discussion, there is the overcoming of Agensud. How many years had been talking about this and there was a continuation of the extension with the Commissioner's management? What government has ever put a real stop to this? It's happening. That, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that those who really believe in the possibilities of the sector today must abandon generic slogans and titles and enter into the substance. Those who really believe that the time factor is crucial to moving on in agriculture must abandon the parliamentary tactics in order to lengthen the time, such as abandoning the Commission and then asking to return to the Commission. The agricultural world needs not unanimity of thought, but to feel that political representation confronts itself on the merits of the problems. He must feel that, even in the different positions, there is a will to build and not always destructive messages. This country needs to restart, to restructure the systems, but even before messages of trust and hope. General policies, generic slogans reverse our agriculture. It's not time anymore. You're out of time. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u18	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u19	Mr President, I would like to thank all my colleagues who have participated in the debate, whose speeches indicate that when we talk about agriculture we often express passions and emotions that do not correspond to the content of the debate and to the reality of things. I mention only one of the figures which also represents how complex it is to get into the substance of the issues that affect agriculture. One of the data that is reported as a negative element of the agricultural policies of this Government and of this majority is the reduction of the number of enterprises. A senator quoted him as a negative element, but that's not the case. It does not work like in other economic sectors: in agriculture, reducing the number of businesses often means getting people over 65 out of agriculture and increasing the farms' farms' farms. These are elements that have a positive meaning in agriculture. These, like other elements in general discussion, say how necessary it is to bring every step back to the right dimension. And the right dimension is what we must also give to this decree-law that talks about the agricultural sector. For years there had been no intervention with a measure that dealt with issues exclusively related to agriculture: being a decree-law, it must intervene on sectors that are in emergency. Retracing the contents and the very title of the measure, we must also reject the interpretation that was intended to give to one of the first words of the title, the word "relaunch". It is obvious that, in a decree-law of six articles, there can be no overall revival of the agricultural sector. The revival refers to two sectors that are currently experiencing a moment of exceptional drama: the olive sector, linked mainly to the spread of the disease of xylella, and the dairy sector, which is going through a very delicate time, that of the transition from a quota regime of production and sale to a free market regime. Several interventions referred to a delay and a de facto shift in the application of the measures, compared with the deadline of 31 March (while today we are on 1 July). This is linked to an operation which, at Community level, has not resulted: there was a commitment on the part of the European Commission to identify instruments to accompany the message. Unfortunately, once again, the negotiating tables have not been successful and the task of identifying appropriate interventions has been postponed to the Member States. This decree-law contains precisely those interventions that, according to us, should help the reorganization of the system, imagining interbranch organizations that on the one hand aggregate the supply and make it competitive on the international market and, on the other, they are concerned to spread the value along the supply chain, protecting what has always been the weakest part, also in the sectors of the transformation, that is, the farmers. The work done in the Commission, on the basis of the mandate given to me, was to worry and deal with the conversion into law of this measure within the time limits set. The measure contains intervention measures on exceptional situations, in addition to those related to the two sectors, which refer to alluvial events and events affecting other diseases, in addition to xylella. All the comments on the timing distribution between the two branches of Parliament are understandable: I believe that there have been several occasions when this issue has been raised. The fact is that for us the priority is represented by the conversion into law of this decree, avoiding that it decays and capitalizing the important work that has been done in the House on it. I believe that this issue is all political and it is not up to the rapporteur to give meaning to the work that the Groups have done in the two branches of Parliament. If an intervention is of value, it is if it is deliberated by the House, and if it is deliberated by the Senate. I believe that some elements of improvement in the Government text have been introduced here, and in my opinion, at times, our duty is also to take credit for the parliamentary work we do. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u20	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the Agriculture Commission, in particular the rapporteur, Senator Bertuzzi, for the important work she has done in examining the draft law for the conversion of Decree-Law No 51 of 2015, which is currently under discussion in this House. Let me stress that the legislative intervention proposed by the Government, then discussed and appropriately improved with the parliamentary contribution, represents a strong signal of the Commission's attention to the primary sector, which for many years had not been the target of urgent legislative intervention, with such a significant scope. I understand the displeasure expressed by many of my colleagues regarding the tight deadlines imposed on the Senate in the conversion of this decree. It is a question of parliamentary activity in its autonomy, and not of the Government, but I would like to stress that the measure has been improved by comparison and by the proposals put forward by all the political forces present in this House. In particular, some of the judgments and assessments we have heard here today are diametrically opposed to those expressed in the debate and voting by the parliamentary groups themselves in the Chamber. As it was recognized in the final vote expressed in the Chamber of Deputies, without votes against, Decree-Law No 51 is a sign of a strong commitment of the Government, but also of its ability to listen to the same oppositions. I believe that an important piece of work has been done on this decree, although unfortunately it is true, I recognise it, only in one branch of the two Chambers of our Parliament: it was a valuable piece of work, which took into account the position of all the political groups. I understand - I repeat - the prerogatives of the Senate, but I believe, colleagues, that in your assessment the general interest must be put before them. This decree-law is not decisive - I say this in the face of the criticisms made by several colleagues - of all the problems: we are aware of them. We know perfectly well how the agricultural sector today manifests the elements of extraordinary positiveness given by the growth of GDP and the constant and very large increase in employment, especially in recent months, and in this we already see the first results of the work done with the measure "campolibero" last year. Of course, however, the agricultural sector is still experiencing difficulties in terms of income: in recent months there has finally been a change in the trend on agricultural income, but we know how much it has fallen in recent years and we are seriously concerned about it. 11:14 a.m. (Following Olivero, Deputy Minister for Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy). This decree-law, however, even with the limits we know, is an important and good step forward, as recognized by all political forces in the House of Deputies. The text before you today deals in particular with two strategic sectors for Italian agriculture such as milk and olive oil, which for various reasons are facing a time of crisis and contains concrete actions to support agricultural enterprises affected by exceptional events, as well as important actions to rationalise the machine at the service of Italian agriculture, with a view to increasing efficiency and effectiveness of administrative action. In particular, the dairy sector is the subject of a number of measures aimed, on the one hand, at addressing the emergency situation caused by the transition from a quota production system to a fully liberalised one; on the other hand, at redesigning for the future the system of contractual relations between the various operators in the milk supply chain, so as to make it fairer and less subject to continuous fluctuations in the determination of the price of the transfer of raw milk. With the measure we give an urgent response to the 35,000 Italian farmers after the end of the milk quotas, allowing the payment of fines for the last campaign. In this sense, I address my colleagues, in particular those of the Forza Italia Group who have reiterated this: we are not faced with those who have exceeded milk quotas, as in previous years, to cheat without taking account of the laws, but with those who have not managed to stay inside when they were trying to increase production in order to prepare for the new regime, therefore for liberalisation, leading production to growth in order to contribute more. It has also focused on the organization and has intervened on contracts with important innovations. On the point, moreover, I point out that important novelties introduced in the parliamentary debate, on the basis of instances that came strongly also from the Senate of the Republic, have been foreseen with reference to interbranch organizations, gathering some instances coming from the Regions and with a view to finally implementing a fundamental instrument for the reorganization of trade relations between agricultural producers and buyers. The olive-oil sector, which represents an Italian and European agricultural excellence, has unfortunately been experiencing a serious crisis for some years both on the internal market and on the international market: a crisis that undermines the survival of many companies. On the one hand, the market situation is seeing a gradual increase in consumption, with an increasing demand for quality oils, without a corresponding increase in production; on the other hand, there is a drastic fall in prices, with a substantial increase in production costs, in particular social security contributions. For the sector, therefore, we proceed with the national plan and the allocation of 32 million euros, which will also be accompanied by the resources of the RDPs of the regions concerned, for a sector that in its agricultural part is worth about 1.5 billion euros, with the objective of achieving a growth of 25% of Italian production in the coming years. I say this against those who have spoken of good ideas but few resources; the resources are those necessary for the national coordination of these processes. Let us not forget the responsibilities of the State and those of the Regions today with regard to our agriculture. These are resources, which we have considered absolutely corresponding to the needs, in view of the enormous resources that exist today in the regions which, through these national resources, can be better activated and more closely coordinated. With regard to the climatic situation and the spread of plant diseases, which often force olive growers to cut down entire olive groves and risk having an extremely negative impact on the whole sector, with a consequent drastic drop in production, we have done interventions that we consider important. This is obviously a very delicate and sensitive moment to manage and govern with the utmost attention. We try to give a concrete response to the needs of farmers and nursery workers affected by the spread of organisms harmful to plants, starting from xylella in Puglia, but also from other diseases, with the derogation for the activation of the national solidarity fund and a first additional allocation compared to the ordinary resources of the fund, amounting to 21 million euros for the damages suffered until 2016. It is a first intervention, but this is the first time that we have left out, precisely by meeting and meeting these new needs. Emergency action in support of the primary sector must also be taken into account in response to the damage suffered by agricultural enterprises, also resulting from alluvial emergencies. Thanks to the parliamentary debate, it was also possible to include the provision of refinancing to the National Solidarity Fund for the fisheries sector, which has not been the case for some years, with a total amount of EUR 2,250 million. They are partial interventions, but - let us remember - linked to specific situations. The numbers may appear small, but they are not smaller than the requests made in recent years. Finally, I would like to turn to the issue of the rationalization of ministerial structures. I would like to thank Parliament for confirming, in this respect, the choice of the Government, both for the abolition of Agensud and for the organisation of the SIAN. In particular, with reference to Agensud, I would like to stress that, after almost twenty years of Commissioner's management, the Government has consistently decided to close this management in a logic of transparency and accountability. We have embarked on a coherent path of rationalization and efficiency of the structure of the Ministry and its related bodies which, as duly specified, must be carried out safeguarding the current level of interventions in favour of the Regions of the Mezzogiorno. I address myself in particular to Senator Marinello: it is our intention to ensure that nothing of the resources currently used by Agensud is dispersed and, above all, that the same are not aimed, as happened to date, at the Regions of the Mezzogiorno for which this subject was built. The need to overcome the commissionership is linked to the assumption of responsibility which, once and for all, must be made by the government in this regard. Finally, I would like to stress the strategic importance, also in view of the urgency of implementing the new CAP and of ensuring that the milk quota system is properly exceeded, of the provision that will enable the current management model of the SIAN to be exceeded, in line with the requests of the European Commission and ensuring greater efficiency in the system, while ensuring that employment levels are safeguarded in the case of third party service. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, these are areas which required the urgency of this measure, but which are also within the broader work that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and Forestry has been pursuing for over a year, in the logic of strengthening a sector which, as I said at the beginning, is experiencing a time of growth in its complexity, since, of course, growth is not without elements of anxiety in certain areas and sectors. It is precisely in the direction of protecting those strategic sectors but now in difficulties that have been mentioned here, that we believe it is important to give a signal today. I would ask this House to give it with a large majority and with an active and critical contribution as long as it wants, but also a proactive one, so that we can move in the direction that we all want. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u22	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency, in accordance with the provisions of Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, declares that amendments 4.15, 4.0.1, 5.2, 5.7, 5.8, 5.9, 5.10, 5.11, 5.12, 5.15, 5.15, 5.16, 5.18, 5.19, 5.20, 5.21, 5.22, 5.23, 5.24, 5.25, 5.27, 5.0.1, 5.0.2, 5.0.3, 5.0.8, 5.0.10, 5.0.11, 5.0.12, 5.0.13, 5.0.14, 5.0.15, 5.0.16, 5.0.17, 5.0.18, 5.0.18, 5.0.19, 5.0.20, 5.0.21, 5.0.21, 5.0.23, 5.0.24, 5.0.25, 5.0.26, 5.0.27, 5.0.28, 5.0.29, 5.0.30, 5.0.31, 5.0.32, 5.0.33, 5.0.334, 5.0.35 (text 2), 5.0.37, 5.0.38, 5.0.30, 5.0.30, 5.0.30, 5.0.31, 5.0.33, 5.0.35, 5.0.35 (text 2), 5.0.37, 5.0.27, 5.0.27, 5.0. It also states that G4.5, G4.6, G4.7, G5.1, G5.2, G5.2, G5.5, G5.5, G5.6, G5.14, G5.20 and G6.2 cannot be proposed under the same regulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u25	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I rise to speak on these statements of inproposability, because if it is true that they come from the Commission, they surprise me even more precisely because they come from the Committee on Agriculture. The fact that in a decree-law concerning the crisis in the agricultural sector the amendments proposing the abolition of the IMU in agriculture cannot be taken into account is very unusual. It is remarkable that on this subject, the Government and the majority of the House, by means of absolutely arbitrary decisions, strike the debate, knowing that it has a strong political response in this House, even within the same majority. I think it is truly intolerable that we should proceed now: a measure which comes only seven days after the deadline (in this Chamber even on the day before the deadline) and which, in essence, prevents the Senate Assembly from being able to make changes for procedural reasons and even trying to prevent such changes from being made through the same debate, which is therefore prevented. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that on the subject of the IMU in agriculture our drop will break your tombstone, the boulder that you put on agriculture, because every measure we propose this abolition. In fact, if we really want to take the agricultural sector into account, Parliament must be proud and abolish this tax, which is absolutely unfair, a capital increase. You, too, are even talking about sectors affected by particular crises, even of an environmental nature, but then you confirm the IMU in agriculture also on land affected by unproductivity due to natural forces. So this is clearly an agricultural asset, which is the weakest sector. In particular, I would like to address my colleagues from regions such as Sicily and the others in the South, where agriculture still accounts for a significant share of gross domestic product. Already last time, when my proposal for the total abolition of the IMU in agriculture was not passed by a few votes, the reaction (which you all know) on the territory, on the networks, in the newspapers, was a scandalous enslavement of some Senators of the South to the logic of the majority and above all to the government's arrogance. I call on the Presidency to reconsider this view of imponibility, because we have the right to be able to discuss what is most in crisis in agriculture, as the text of the decree, which is precisely the IMU, says. So, Madam President, I would ask you, possibly through a brief pause, to be able to reflect on my request. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u26	Senator D'Alì, as you know, the decisions on the impproposability of the amendments adopted by the Presidency are unappellable, so I ask the senators to intervene if ever during the presentation of the amendments and not to open a debate on this issue, as was asked by Senator D'Alì. We cannot open a debate on a subject which is, in fact, defined in terms of the Rules of Procedure. I would therefore ask Senator Bonfrisco and Senator Ruvolo, who will be able to speak on the amendments, to express their possible opinion on the issue of agricultural IMU in that place.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u29	BONFRISCO (CRI). Madam President, I would like to speak on the order of business, not so much to express an opinion, because an opinion is expressed by itself on this matter, and it is not even necessary for us in this House to remember that, since farmers remember it every day, and not only them, forced to pay this tax, not only unjust, but insane and absurd. I propose to the attention of the House something that I would like to see taken into consideration. We are carrying out the work for the approval of a bill to convert a decree-law in the absence of the President of the Agriculture Commission. Since the affair which Mr D'Ali has just described took place, in my view, improperly within the Committee on Agriculture, I would ask the Presidency to be able to enter into rapid consultation with the President of the Commission, so that the House is placed in a position, not already to express opinions, but simply to verify that after the opinion of the Committee on Budgets the Commission has also done its work on a regular basis. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u30	Senator Bonfrisco, the President of the Commission is not present for his own choice; if he decides not to be there, he is not obliged to be present. There is, however, Vice President Pignedoli who can play the role of the President, where necessary. This has been clarified, and I would like to turn to the amendments relating to the articles of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u33	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, you were very quick in reading earlier... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I apologize. Do you want me to repeat it? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). No, I'm just asking for a clarification. Was Amendment 5.0.35 (text 2) excluded because of the opposition to Article 81 of the Constitution or because of the extraneousness of the matter? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, this amendment is not improbable, but improbable. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). I would like to remind you that the Budget Committee has expressed no objection to text 2 of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u34	It has nothing to do with Article 81 of the Constitution. There are a number of amendments which cannot be accepted because they have the opinion that is opposed to Article 81, and they may be voted upon after this obstacle has been overcome. There are also the unacceptable amendments which, as such, are not put to the vote. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, excuse me, but I have to abuse your attention for a moment. On this amendment there can be no extraneous matter: read the text and see that it is completely congruent. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, we will evaluate him and give you an answer during the course of the work. In the meantime, it is explained to me that text 2 proposes the second part of amendment 5.0.35, which had been declared inadmissible. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I request your interpretation, because the President of the Commission is not here. We are here in the Chamber and it is you who decides. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, but the impossibilities of the amendments have been decided by the President of the Senate, not by the President of the Commission, of course with the evaluation that is his responsibility under the Rules of Procedure. However, in the course of the debate on these articles, before we arrive at Rule 5, we will make a further check, as you have requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u37	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I do not understand why the reasoning you have made for amendment 5.0.35 (text 2) cannot be done for my amendment 6 -bis.0.1, which also had the clearance of the budget Commission. As you have rightly pointed out now, the presidency of the Senate can decide even if the President of the Commission has expressed himself differently. I too have asked for a review of the judgment; it is not an appeal, but a self-protection review (so the principle of unappellability remains absolutely sacrosanct), i.e. a self-confidence rethink by the President of the Senate on the possibility of putting Amendment 6a to the vote.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u38	I would like to point out that the judgment of inproposity has nothing to do with the opinion of the Budget Commission, because it concerns the extraneous nature of the matter. The fact that the amendment has received the favourable opinion of the Budget Commission does not prevent it from being impossible in any case. On this basis and with this criterion the examination of the presidency of the Senate was carried out. If there are any further details, the Presidency will inform them, but I do not know that so far.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u41	CRIMI (M5S). Madam President, speaking on the order of business, I agree with Senator Bonfrisco's request. It seems really inappropriate and inappropriate to proceed without the presence of the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Senator Formigoni, who is not here today, when we are debating a decree-law which concerns precisely the issue of agriculture. I think it is very disrespectful of this House and of all my colleagues, and it is a fact that the Presidency should take into account. We ask the Presidency at least to turn up the phone and call Senator Formigoni to come to this House if he is not busy doing other things.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u42	Senator Crimes, the President has already answered. Of course, it would be even less appropriate if the work of this House were interrupted by the absence of a senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u43	Madam President, I would like to be very specific in view of the fact that, if I did not love agriculture as I do, I would have tabled dozens of amendments while I personally tabled only six. In the Commission I could have spoken for a very long time, but that is not my style; precisely because I love agriculture, my speech was very timely: only on this decree-law and not on agriculture that I would like, as others have done talking about the Bank of the Earth and many other things. Amendment 1.1 calls for the deletion of six paragraphs in Article 1, which govern the possibility - on which I have already stated - of farmers who have produced more milk to pay the additional amount for three years. I have asked very precise, punctual questions with arithmetical data and, again, for the umpteenth time, I have not been answered by anyone, neither by the President of my Commission (who is not there) nor by the Vice President. I believe that this amendment is important and that this possibility should be removed, because I think that there has been no surplus milk, as I have shown. As we know, what has actually been done is a system for milk production, because milk can also be made without cows. In Italy this is possible: just as the European Union is asking us to make cheese with milk powder, so we can make milk even without cows. How do you do that? It is very simple: it takes milk powder and transforms it into milk, to which quotas have always been poorly managed, still from 1985 to 1990, by the famous Unalat, managed by the triple trade union. So there are many "paper shares" left around and these productions are justified. These scandals have been highlighted very well, therefore there is no correspondence with the milk and therefore the data of the producer and the owner of the cows should be checked, since there are different databases. For these reasons, I call for these six paragraphs to be deleted. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u44	Madam President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak this morning, since I have asked several times to intervene unsuccessfully. I will not go back to the IMU, but I will go back to the wording of the amendments. As we had already argued in general debate, the oppositions felt that they were not taking part in the work of the Commission on the substance for a very simple reason, that is, because they could not enter into the substance of the measure, since it was a decree-law, with the very short time that was given to the Commission on the substance. I have tabled a number of amendments, many of which have been declared inadmissible, some inadmissible and the few that remain should be voted on. However, since, as I have already said in my previous speeches, this is a farce, that is, a scenery, I withdraw all the amendments that remain alive. I only call on the Government to express itself at least on the specific agenda for the agricultural IMU, because Senator D'Alì, like other colleagues who have spoken before, has put their finger in the plague. What do you want to do with the agricultural IMU? President Renzi did not even find the words for this tax that I call ignoble and impossible to support the world of agriculture. See to the record, if you have the will and since you also have the tools to do so, how many farms have paid the IMU due a few days ago. Go check it out. It is not that farmers do not want to pay, but they are not in a position to pay anything! Other than agricultural IMU, other than this unbearable tax! That's what we're talking about. It is not possible not to have a minimum response. If we are talking about relaunching agriculture, I would like to know who sealed the impossible amendments. Are we talking about agricultural IMU? The government talks about relaunching the agricultural sector and if the agricultural IMU is not compatible with this argument, with what is it? With your alchemies? With your promises? By imposing the agricultural IMU you killed the world of agriculture! We have no other means but to flee, to flee from this House, but to respect the institutions, to respect this House, to remain seated and composed without taking the floor, despite the fact that there are so many amendments on which we can reason and discuss; however, since there has been no possibility of being able to say ours or at least to cooperate with the Government in order to find a solution, alas we will have to put a gag on it. We do not do this for our history and above all for our responsibility, but it would be appropriate for us all to gag ourselves, including the majority, for this ignoble provision that you have put into effect. [[Applause from the LAGs and FI-PdL XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u45	Senator Ruvolo, is it therefore understood that all of your amendments have been withdrawn? RUVOLO (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). As a sign of protest, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I get the point.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u47	Senator Candiani, we are in the process of illustrating the amendments. In what capacity do you ask to intervene? CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, the LN-Aut Group supports all the amendments withdrawn by Senator Ruvolo.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u50	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, the M5S Group also supports all the amendments tabled by Senator Ruvolo.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u53	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, without prejudice to your right to speak under Rule 97 (3) of the Rules of Procedure... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This is not my place, it is the presidency's. SANTANGELO (M5S). I am referring to you as President right now. I am very surprised, as are other colleagues, at how some of the amendments which relate to the internal aspects of this measure may be considered to be outside the scope of the matter. Madam President (or Vice President, at this point I do not know what to call it), this morning's 'kangaroo' should have been done, in my humble opinion, in advance of the analysis carried out by the 5th Commission; otherwise the members of that Commission could find themselves doing a huge job on a dossier that arrives in this House which, as you did this morning, could be completely transformed and modified. I therefore ask you to be kind, even in the light of the amendments withdrawn and then taken over by other groups, to give us at least the time to read them and to check which are impossible and which, in view of the contrary opinion under Article 81, may possibly be voted with the support of the proposed number of senators. I would therefore ask you to give us a minimum time, Mr President, to understand what happened to this dossier after the chaos and gloom of this morning. A quarter of an hour should be enough.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u54	Senator Santangelo, being a confirmation of the previous judgment, the assessment by the Groups was made in the course of the Commission's work and, with regard to the role of the Budget Commission, the Rules of Procedure provide that all the amendments be expressed regardless, also because the Presidency's assessment takes place after examination by the Budget Commission. The two aspects have their own autonomy: the Presidency deals with the extraneousness of the matter and the Commission takes stock of the cover profiles. SANTANGELO (M5S). So what?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u57	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would just like to ask you for a minute to reiterate and strengthen what Mr Ruvolo has said in this House. I would like to say to a number of Members in this House who, when the agricultural IMU was adopted, said that it was a mistake. These words came not only from the centre-right banks but also from the PD benches. Today there may be evidence that words follow the facts. Having said that, I would ask you to accept, politely, the amendments withdrawn by Senator Ruvolo, now signed by Candiani and others.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u60	MAURO Mario (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Madam President, I too subscribe to the first-signed amendments by Senator Ruvolo.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u63	SMALL (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, on behalf of myself and Senator Marin, I support Amendment 1.3 and the other amendments signed by Senator Amidei. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Let us then take up the explanation of the amendments to Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u64	Madam President, I had already spoken in general debate on this issue. I believe that, since Article 1 (2) nevertheless refers to an advantage, which in itself is too limited in the aid, the limit of the amounts exceeding EUR 5,000 in respect of installment is too high, because of the difficulties of agricultural holdings and dairy farmers. With this amendment, I propose that this limit be raised to EUR 2,500, because a figure of more than EUR 5,000 can represent a year's income for many workers. Lowering this amount to EUR 2,500 would allow them to request installment from this sum, instead of the much higher one of EUR 5,000.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u65	Madam President, I would just like to say briefly, with regard to Amendment No 1.7, that, in the face of the declaration, but in my opinion it does not persecute the will, even with this decree-law, to rationalise the structures of the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy and also in relation to the events that the measure is intended to resolve (i.e. the issue of quotas), to bring the coordination functions to the head of the Ministry is a good and fair measure. Amendment 1.7 follows that very path. I would like to clarify my position, also with regard to the following articles, by saying that we are in difficulty and embarrassed to learn that here, as in the Committee on Agriculture, this is a sterile debate, because from the outset we have been told that the decree-law is an armored measure, against which no intervention and no inclusion is possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u66	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u67	Madam President, I am against all the amendments to Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u68	I am in agreement with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u69	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senators Gaetti and Fattori. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Ruvolo and other senators, which was subsequently withdrawn and taken over by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Amidei and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Ruvolo and other senators, which was subsequently withdrawn and taken over by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Ruvolo and other senators, which was subsequently withdrawn and taken over by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u72	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, Amendment 1.6 is important, as it concerns the way in which the new national agricultural information system will be restructured, which will of course be incorporated into Agea. However, the text provides that Agea can entrust it to private parties, following a public tender. This, in my view, is a huge mistake, because, as we are seeing in this area, there are networks of companies and they can win competitions people who then have a conflict of interest. Today, for example, we know that the information system has been managed by a network of companies where controllers and controllers are in the same situation, which could happen. Again, there is a database that is the beating heart, because it determines all the elements and all the data on which payments are calculated, but on which you can also make scams, because you just manipulate them: because it is a very important thing, in my view, it must remain exclusively public. In this context, on the other hand, since it is possible to cooperate with private individuals, these would dictate the competences. This amendment therefore aims to create a database exclusively of a public type, without there being a public-private relationship. I would therefore ask everyone to do so by voting in favour of this amending proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u75	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to say that I support this amendment and subscribe to all the amendments which Mr Gaetti has just signed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u76	We take note of that. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7, tabled by Senator Stefano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u77	Madam President, Amendment 2.1 is extremely important, because, as I have been able to explain extensively in the general debate, the measure before us creates thresholds for which a small group of farmers will have to pay those famous EUR 28 million for all. In order to be clearer, however, I will give an example. If there were to be a speed limit of 50 kilometres per hour for cars: in case a group had exceeded 70, one 80 and one 90, it would be determined at some point that only the group that exceeded 75 kilometres per hour should pay the fine for everyone. This is clearly a paradox, because even those who have exceeded 60 kilometers per hour knew that they would have to pay a fine. This means that, as I have shown, if all those who have produced the most pay the fine, the figure would be EUR 4 per quintal and therefore, within three years, it would be bearable; those companies belonging to the restricted group that instead will have to pay these quotas - that is, EUR 27 per quintal, important figure, knowing that today the milk is paid EUR 32 per quintal - will necessarily have to close. Or what will they do? The famous court case will begin. I believe that those who have signed those laws that have caused in Italy a clogging of justice with more than 222,000 judicial actions between civil court and administrative court have caused an unsustainable situation. That is why I call for my proposal to be accepted, in order to ensure that different firms are avoided. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u78	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u79	I am against all the amendments and agendas tabled in Rule 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u80	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u81	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 2.1. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators, up to the words 'comma 18'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.1 and subsequent amendment 2.2 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.3 tabled by Senator Marinello. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator Galimberti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u84	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). I'm gonna drop it, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u87	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, I accept Amendment 2.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u88	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.5, tabled by Senator Marinello, who subsequently withdrew and made his own by Senator Donno. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.6 tabled by Senator Galimberti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 2.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u91	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). I'm taking him back.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u94	WOMAN (M5S). I'll do it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u95	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.9, tabled by Senator Marinello, subsequently withdrawn and made by Senator Donno, until the words "40,000.00" with the following words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part of amendment 2.9 and subsequent amendment 2.10 are therefore not included.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u98	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, I have already mentioned that you wanted to speak, and you also saw me, but we citizens do not exist here. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I would like to point out that not in this vote just made, but in the previous one, the entire Group voted against, because some of us made a mistake in the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u99	I would point out that we cannot make an announcement of vote for the Group as a whole, in any case for this time the Presidency takes note of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u102	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, I would like to point out that Senator Castaldi said that the vote was changed and not the next one, referring therefore to the previous amendment that we have just voted on, and not to what comes next.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u103	We take note of the clarification, but the vote had been recorded correctly even before it was clarified. I call on Senator Stefano and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2.13. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u106	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on Amendment 2.14 and I would also like to specify its content. The agricultural sector is a bit particular and is influenced by seasonality. Therefore, the recruitment of employees in the agricultural sector obviously takes place, by force, compared to seasonality. Therefore, the normal working relationship in agriculture is the fixed-term one. That said, in agriculture the worker has the possibility of having credited one year of retirement pension if he has carried out at least one hundred and fifty-six days of work. Rightly the legislator, in the past, has thought about the aspect of seasonality. So in agriculture, one hundred and fifty-six days are equal to one year. Amendment 2.14 proposes that the recruitment of fixed-term workers in the agricultural sector, for a number of days of at least one hundred and fifty-six, should enable the farmer to take advantage of the contribution allowance, which is currently only available in cases where he is engaged indefinitely. So let us simply take pictures of the real need for this sector and bring it here to Parliament. Then it would be appropriate for Parliament to take on this real need of our farmers and not that of other countries, which are killing our agriculture. By the way, this government has also killed our agriculture, putting the agricultural IMU. It would therefore be appropriate to put this amendment to the vote, overcoming the improcability of Article 81 of the Constitution, and to approve it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u109	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, if Senator Puglia is not against this, I would like to sign this amendment. Amendment 2.14 proposes a debate that we began during the examination of the Stability Act, when, with a resounding EUR 4.5 billion of structural funds in the Mezzogiorno, the rule on contributory reductions was introduced, to be sure, but certainly not as a counterpart to that investment taken away. Then, for further penalization of the areas of the South, where we know that agriculture - as I said before - constitutes a significant percentage of GDP, the agricultural sector has been excluded from the decontribution on recruitment. And what little we managed to get was covered with funds from the Ministry of Agricultural Policy itself, in the absolute silence and in the absolute acquiescence of a Minister completion absent from the debate [[Applause from Senator Ruvolo]] and the interests of agriculture, especially the southern one. To approve this amendment today means, therefore, to avoid in part a resounding error made during the debate on the Stability Act and to give a minimum of breath to agriculture as regards the contributory burden on recruitment. That is why our vote on this amendment will be very much in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u112	FACTORS (M5S). Madam President, I would just like to point out that I made a mistake and that my vote on the previous amendment was in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u115	MARINELLO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I would simply like to make an appeal to the Government on this matter. Mr Vice-Minister, this amendment is - in my opinion - of absolute common sense. As an exponent of the majority I realize that the one under consideration is an inemissable measure, because the decree-law expires on July 5th, so there is essentially no margin. The amendment in question, however, raises a serious problem, namely the strabism that often the politics of the country and the government - I am referring not only to the current one, but also to those that have happened over the years - have towards the agricultural sector. In fact, when we talk about reductions and labour costs, who knows why we are talking about or are always thinking about the cost of industrial labour and never about the cost of agricultural labour. I would then like you, Mr Vice-Minister, to intervene on this point in order to clearly make commitments and to say what the position of the Ministry is, including in relation to subsequent measures. In particular - and I would like to make this suggestion to you - you yourself, before giving a firm contrary opinion on the amendment, could perhaps propose, in the intercourse between the Government and Parliament, the possible transformation of it into an agenda. I would therefore like to point out to you this opportunity that certainly the same parliamentary practice and common sense could advise you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u118	Rossi Luciano (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I would like to speak in favour of Mr Marinello's very acceptable assessments. As a result, I also urge the Government, which I am honored to support as a majority, to make an assessment, to deepen in order to find a solution to such an important and sensitive issue as the one we are discussing.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u121	Mr Olivero, Deputy Minister for Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy. Madam President, since this amendment is also subject to the contrary opinion of the Budget Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution - as all my colleagues have understood - it is not possible for the Government to give a positive assessment today. With regard to taking into account in a subsequent measure the question that this amendment raises, we are, on the other hand, fully available. Therefore, if the presenters agree, I would ask you to withdraw the amendment and turn it into an agenda that can be carefully assessed by the Government and to which I shall advance your availability from now on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, do you accept the government representative's proposal?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u122	Madam President, it is actually very interesting to hear from Senator Marinello and I would like to thank the representative of the Government, who in a way understands the importance of this matter. We are talking here about an amendment which, if adopted, would become a law tomorrow and would be a fantastic thing, because Parliament would really be able to give a message to our farmers, who know very well how much they are suffering from globalisation. So, I should trust the government and what it's proposing, but I trust my friends, that is, the people I can really count on. On the other hand, I know very well that the agendas adopted the next day do not change anything at all, but they simply allow the presenter to go to a television show to say how good it is that his agenda has been approved, but it is just paper. It would be better, rather, for Parliament, in a strong way, to say to our farmers: You are our brothers. We're here to legislate for you. I would also like to say one more thing, ladies and gentlemen: at the moment we abstain, in the Senate we are voting against it; I am not doing anything at all, but I am fundamentally against it because I do not like the whole amendment very much. I repeat, then, that it would be appropriate to say to our farmers: "Brothers farmers, Parliament is with you."
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u123	I understand that you are insisting on the vote on the amendment. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.14 tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u126	Mr Schifani (AP-NCD-UDC) Madam President, I would just like to point out that my card did not work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u127	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G2.1, tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G2.2 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u130	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, this is nothing more than the transposition of amendment 2.14 on the agenda. I thought I understood that the government had invited me to turn that amendment into an agenda. Here he is, transformation occurred, voilà. I therefore cannot understand the reason why the opinion was against it, since it was merely a transposition on the agenda. It would therefore be appropriate for the representative of the Government to clarify his position and if it is true what he said earlier, since we have all heard him.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u131	Does the government representative consider the text to be the same? The editorial staff seems different, but it is the Government that has to express itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u132	The wording is not identical to the proposed wording and, therefore, I confirm the opposite opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u133	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.2, tabled by Senators Puglia and Fattori. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u134	Madam President, I am always starting from the premise that we have missed a great opportunity, because we should have voted on those amendments which proposed the abolition of the agricultural IMU. Once again - alas - this Government has lost a great opportunity to significantly affect the agricultural sector. Amendment 3.1 aims to increase the percentage of market share participation of categories from 25% to 40%, with a view to giving the category more significant and clearly more bargaining power for the sector in question. Otherwise, you run the risk of having more categories with their representation, without decision-making power or, at least, without being able to affect them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u135	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u136	The opinion is against all the amendments referred to in Article 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u137	The opinion of the Government is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u140	WOMAN (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u141	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Amidei and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Stefano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.3 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u144	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, on behalf of all the Senators of the Northern League Group, I am voting for Amendment 3.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u147	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to add the signature to Amendment 3.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u148	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.3, tabled by Senator Marinello, which was subsequently withdrawn and made by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.4 tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.5 tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.6 tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u151	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to ask you to sign Amendment 3.7 and to make the explanation of vote, which I imagine Senator Gaetti will also make. I do not know whether colleagues have read the text of Amendment 3.7. I would like to point out that, if it is not approved, I will sign Amendment 3.8 and make an explanation of vote on it. Amendment 3.7 states - this is the revival of the sector in crisis that the Government and the majority of us are proposing - that interbranch organisations may impose compulsory contributions to the agricultural supply chains, i.e. farmers who are present as producers or first processors in the agricultural supply chains. This means that, inevitably, participation in particular trade fairs and markets chosen by inter-branch organisations will be able to be financed with farmers' money, who will not be able to refuse to contribute to those organizations, because - I repeat - we are talking about compulsory contributions. This is really impossible, unacceptable and I would like to say almost unconstitutional, because it is a surreptitious way of imposing a real tribute; moreover, compulsory contributions are nothing more than new taxes, especially for those who suffer them. It is a surreptitious way for this new tax to be imposed by interbranch organisations. And it was to me, until now, that any compulsory taxation, in the form of taxes and taxes, was decided by Parliament, that is, by those who have the representation of citizens and can tell them that they are obliged to pay taxes or contributions. For now my explanation of vote is limited to the deletion of paragraph 3. If this deletion does not take place - I repeat - I will make an explanation of vote on the next amendment, the 3.8, to which I would like to add my signature. However, I would ask my colleagues who follow the events of agriculture, or who say that they should follow them, because I do not think they have read this text, if they really share the content of this article.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u152	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u153	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u154	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, I have already mentioned this problem in the general debate, and that is exactly what it is. Here we have very particular situations, in the sense that even Article 165 of European Regulation No 1308 of 2013 states that it is sufficient to have an indirect benefit to have to pay. I know very small realities such as those - for example - of few farmers of a small number of cows, who produce their milk and cheese of the highest quality, which are then sold in the circles of the joint buying groups and whatever else. They therefore have no interest in asking a question because they have their own small market. In this case, however, what happens? Since an organization will favor the sale of cheese, indirectly they will also have to pay. As you can see, therefore, the realities are very varied and - as I have already explained - if these interbranch organizations have their meaning in Europe, in Italy I think they do not work. This is, therefore, yet another bureaucratic carriage. We have already seen how such situations are managed and this will be just another leap produced by that simplification that we always keep talking about. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u155	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.7 tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u158	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I would ask for the vote on the amendment and, therefore, for the support of the House to approve it. Before the vote, I would like to remind you of the content of the amendment. Without prejudice, as has been said before, the inclusion of a compulsory contribution - of course it is not called a tax, but in the end it is a further tax on our farmers - at the very least we ask that these contributions not only do not constitute a tax levy, as we already say in the law, but be totally deductible from income, that is to say a real cost and, therefore, totally deductible.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u161	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I had anticipated that if the House had ever confirmed paragraph 3, I would have asked for the signature of amendment 3.8 and would have been the subject of an explanation of vote. The contributions referred to in the paragraph that has been - alas - confirmed, being obligatory can only be paid: it is an obligation. I remember that we are in the presence of farms. However, if we were in the presence of industrial companies, they would be absolutely deductible from taxable income. Farmers are therefore subject to tax treatment which is penalised and very different from that of the other sectors which are on the budget - as they say - and therefore do not have the possibility to deduct such contributions. The principle of the obligation to pay such contributions has been passed, which is not acceptable, even for persons who are not members of inter-branch organisations, who are entitled to set up certain supply chain projects, so there is the possibility for an inter-branch organisation to be able to impose a compulsory contribution on those who are not members of the inter-branch organisation. I wonder, therefore, what are the constitutional principles governing the establishment of this rule. Even if this unfortunately becomes law at the end of the debate, I ask that at least we grant ourselves the deductibility from the taxable income of the contributions in question, treating the agricultural sector as well as other commercial sectors of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u162	As the authors ask for the vote, I ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.8, tabled by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.9, tabled by Senator Gaetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.11, tabled by Senator Amidei and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.12 tabled by Senator Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.13
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u165	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I support this amendment and make a final explanation of vote on the amendments referred to in Article 3, because I understood that my colleagues did not want to follow and deepen the issues that we have put through them. We have imposed, indeed you have imposed - we have voted against - compulsory contributions and you have made them not deductible from taxable income, contrary to any logic of fiscal equity. Even with paragraph 6 you have also established administrative fines for those who do not pay them. And all to whose advantage? For the benefit of interbranch organisations. We know how the world of union associations moves in these areas. We are well aware that it is largely controlled by policy and that the policy of inter-branch organisations offers these benefits, on the part of farmers, in order to benefit them in the debate on such measures. Trade union peace - I am also referring to the employers' unions, and not only those traditionally intended - is, in fact, essential in order to be able to carry out this type of regulation, which directly penalises individuals and individual farmers. Colleagues, I do not know if, in the end, in the political confrontation, you mix with citizens or interbranch organizations. Of course we must also measure ourselves with inter-branch organisations, but in that case we always measure ourselves on the interests of citizens and operators, and not on those of organisations. My vote is therefore in favour of amendment 3.13 to close a debate on an article that you have underestimated once again. The Commission has thus modified it in the text from the House, as absolutely unchangeable. The government, a few days after the deadline, proposes it to us and imposes it on you as absolutely unchangeable and, once again, the majority only acts as a stool to agreed rules outside this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u168	BONFRISCO (CRI). Madam President, I rise to vote in favour of the text of the amendment tabled by Senator Candiani and to take the opportunity of a very brief further reflection, also on the basis of the speech that Mr D'Alì has just made. Madam President, I have always been a convinced supporter of the great role played in our country by the intermediate bodies. Our society is so structured and has far and deep roots that they have given us that country to which we today try to assist in modernization, so that those intermediate bodies can continue to play their role in the best way. They always accompany the country in modernity and today cross the border the fruit of a recent culture that also in our reality - thanks to God - has been formed of strong attention, first of all, to the right of the citizen. Without embarrassing great debates - and this is not the case for this poor bill of conversion - I would like to share with my colleagues in this House and with the Government, who intended to support this line, what is the true function and role of these intermediate bodies today. Any one of us lives on the territories and lives on their institutional and political realities knows how much weight those intermediate bodies still have. But, in the overall failure, this decree-law has a small part, and it must not be called, as it is written in the title " Urgent provisions on the revival of the agricultural sectors in crisis." Have the courage to say - and we must all have it - that, in this text, the revival of agriculture is not really there. On the contrary, with every amendment we vote on, we record the subtraction of resources from agriculture or their displacement as already occurred in the law of stability. In this case, instead of supporting farms, which are going through a very difficult period, and not only because of the economic crisis, but also because of the crisis caused by the strong changes in the international market, we prefer to support activity and innovation on intermediate bodies. This shows, once again, that the failure of the agricultural sector lies not in the arms and heads of our farmers, but in the whole series of measures that we have never devoted to their support, preferring, instead, every time, large associations, with strong political ties, which - we have learned to know - do everything except defend the farmers. [[Applause from Senator Gaetti]] They are farmers' intermediaries and do not defend the widespread interests of a country like ours, in which agriculture is an important and fundamental voice. I come from one of the most important agricultural provinces in Italy and I ask the Government and this House a question, in a reflection that perhaps we are allowed to make at this time. With regard to the constraints and bottlenecks that have occurred in the Agriculture Commission on this text as well as on all the others (as we pointed out earlier), you have wondered where Coldiretti is defending farmers. What does Coldiretti do instead of defending and supporting the great effort of farmers today? [[Applause from Senators Simeoni, Mussini, Gaetti and Fucksia]] I therefore believe that, in addition to voting on this amendment, the Government should have the strength and the will to deal with this issue not with warm cloths and with the fiction of taking measures in favour. Indeed, as farmers who start working every day very early in the morning know, these measures are not in their support but against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u169	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.13 tabled by Senators Candiani and D'Alì. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Colleagues, in view of the circumstances and since the Conference of Leaders is convened at 1 p.m., I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u172	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I thank you and apologise for my insistence. However, since the examination of the measure is postponed until the afternoon sitting, I would ask you whether you could, in this period of time, ask the President of the Senate about the issues we have put in relation to the impproposability of certain amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency takes note of your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u175	MORRA (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for attention to be paid to a case which is still amazement among those who follow the events of finance. I refer, in particular, to the case of the Bank of the Mezzogiorno - MedioCredo Centrale, on which Minister Padoan had to respond in Parliament, even if the House, to matters that are increasingly to be investigated today. This credit institution owned by Poste Italiane, and therefore something that should be of all of us... [[Brusio. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u176	I ask all my colleagues to go quietly to allow Mr Morra to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u177	MORRA (M5S). Madam President, I am talking about a public bank that turns out - I do not know whether because it is extraordinarily managed or just because it is lucky to be able to triple net profit over three years and to guarantee about 1.3 billion euros of financing for the production system and consumer credit, but then suddenly, in a few months, following the change in management, it is slowed down in its credit support activity, so much so that on the monthly level the figures that it manages to grant to the market have collapsed resoundingly over just twelve months. Perhaps the doubt that arises is that there is a will to break down the market valuation, the heritage and the capital of the same in order to favor someone, perhaps private, who wants to eat, as usual, one of the few things that we public and are working effectively. If it is then thought that this bank, so far, has helped the South in particular because Banca del Mezzogiorno was born at the will of Tremonti - and therefore of a government that had a particularly north-centric characterization - to favor the South, the issue deserves even more attention. So, anticipating that a question on this subject will be filed today, I would like to know from the Government why the ownership of Banca del Mezzogiorno, ascribed to Poste Italiani, accepts these games that frankly leave at least very perplexed from the point of view of economic logic. If then something criminally relevant comes up, we will all know, hopefully, but I think and believe that the public heritage must be defended and not sold out. [[Applause from Senator Marton.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u180	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to pay tribute to two discontinuous firemen, one from Imola, 24 years old, who took his own life and another, Salvatore Todaro, 24 years old from Trapani who had moved to Milan in 2010 to make more days of recall. They are discontinuous firefighters, those who work on call, those to whom, from January 2016, if the government's guidelines will not change, will no longer be given the opportunity to have the service and therefore will find themselves without a job. The discontinuous vigilantes have not been given the opportunity, until now and after it had been promised, to have the stabilization of the job and now the Ministry has denied them the possibility of hiring, but indicating a national competition to cover the vacancies. I believe that further reflection must be made because we are faced with vigilant people who have worked properly in the field of activity and are being set aside today without even giving them an opportunity to verify their skills and skills so that they can continue to do this work. These are not people who have not gained competence. These are not people who have not devoted themselves to a particular job. They made this life choice linked to an expectation that the fire department system guaranteed them. I know that there are many people who are in this very difficult situation. I want to remember Luke, a 36-year-old boy with two children who is in this condition and like him are many others. It is a matter of taking note of an expectation which is legally established and which I believe an answer should be given to. I ask the Government to reflect and remedy this choice because it does not give an opportunity to stabilize, even after verification, the discontinuous vigilantes, it seems to me contrary to the constitutional principle of protected expectation, to good constitutional faith and it also clearly seems to me contrary to principles of common sense, justice and ethics. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u183	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, my speech is somewhat in line with that of my previous colleague, although for other reasons. It concerns the situation of the competition for school managers in Lombardy. The Lombardy TAR canceled, for the second time in four years, with a judgment published on Monday 29 June, the competition for school managers. By accepting the reasons of some of the applicants, especially as regards the composition of the commissions that corrected the work, he sentenced the Ministry to pay the costs of the proceedings and to pay the damages quantified in 1,000 euros for each applicant. The appeals submitted to the TAR in all concern about 150 competitors of this competition. If the TAR were to accept only half of the actions brought, the amount that it would have to pay would be considerable. These days, among other things, all the other sentences are expected. The judges of the Lombard TAR write that the administration operated without an adequate level of diligence, since it was a very important competition. There are 650 schools entrusted last year to new managers, who risk remaining without a guide if the decision is confirmed by the Council of State. The Ministry will immediately have to challenge the judgment with further increase of costs and turn to the Council of State in order to obtain a suspensive that allows the management of the schools to the managers overwhelmed by the sentence of the TAR. This is a very serious situation which has again affected the Lombard school. The competition for school leaders banned in 2011 met a very troubled iter. In 2012, 400 candidates had passed the competition, but the Lombard TAR and the State Council had canceled the same competition, due to the use of transparent envelopes containing the candidates' personal data. No candidate considered eligible had served as the correction procedure was cancelled. All the evidence had been repacked and corrected by three new commissions. These committees have now been declared not to comply with the requirements of the legislation and their work has been cancelled. These data were then also published on the Internet and thus created an incredible mess. So what happens, Madam President? A solution must be found shortly. And we are all wondering what solution will be found. It's up to the administration to find one, and quickly. Also because the risk is the possible claim damages that could advance all 996 candidates who passed the pre-selection test back in 2011. In the maxi amendment to the school bill, it was also envisaged that these people should be accommodated. The solution could therefore be, as already foreseen in the aforementioned draft law, the one identified by some Regions, such as Tuscany, Sicily and perhaps also Campania. Therefore, this would be really unthinkable for some administrative acts, which have already been signed by these managers, which would then be weakened by their duties. And then there is the issue of families and children attending school. The fact that 650 schools may not have a school manager next year is a matter that should certainly be at the attention of both the Ministry and this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u186	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, after almost a year of suspension of publication yesterday, the Unit returned to the newsstands with a new director. The new guide, Erasmus D'Angelis, presents an incomplete curriculum on all online sites. It is said that he has been a journalist in RAI and the manifesto, president of the Water Services Society in Tuscany and Undersecretary for Transport of the Letta Government. But it is an incomplete resume that published in these hours from different parts. The same Erasmo D'Angelis, who is supposed to have obtained the position of director not since yesterday, but for a few days, today still holds the position of head of the mission structure against the hydrogeological failure and for the development of water infrastructure, established by Renzi, by decree of 17 May 2014. We wonder if it is compatible between these two roles: certainly not. This choice is regrettable, politically inappropriate and incomprehensible for the workload and the delicacy of the tasks involved in the two tasks. Renzi, who we believe is not foreign to this new appointment of D'Angelis as director of the Unity, must intervene immediately: enough mess like that of De Luca in Campania. If the objectives of the establishment of the mission structure were to monitor, coordinate and accelerate the actions of defense of the territory against the hydrogeological failure, I signal that many interventions are stopped even from 2009, and that the mission structure should have planned other interventions, so Renzi must intervene immediately to indicate another coordinator. Otherwise, in addition to the few resources allocated by the Government against hydrogeological failure, the Premier will show that this risk - which affects 80% of the municipalities - certainly does not fall within his priorities. Renzi therefore intervenes immediately to cancel and reset this, which is a real scandal. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bruni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u189	RUVOLO (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Madam President, some media today have a very difficult title to interpret: MOSE millionaire tests, public money to 130 consultants. Moreover, reading the article, we get to 316 professionals, many of whom are high bureaucrats of ANAS. I would like to remind you that, according to this investigation that carried out the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) is awarded and paid EUR 1.127 million to Vincenzo Pozzi, former president of ANAS, EUR 762,000 to Pietro Ciucci, former president of ANAS, EUR 223,000 to Dr Mucilli, EUR 562,000 to Piero Buoncristiano, former ANAS, EUR 242,000 to Massimo Averardi, former manager of ANAS, EUR 321,000 to Mauro Coletta, former manager of ANAS, EUR 394,000 to Francesco Sabato, former general manager of ANAS; and I stop here. From all this, according to those who carried out this investigation and this survey, comes a total cost that amounts to 19 million euros. We have said, in these minutes, that in order not to charge the agricultural IMU to farmers, we need a few more million euros. Well: for these who are commonly called servants of the State - but I would say that they are servants of their pockets - this great work of art has been realized, certainly legitimate, but, from the point of view of the citizen, it is disconcerting. We have tabled a request to set up a committee of inquiry into ANAS over the last ten years, which has been signed by over 100 senators. Since we are not allowed to know anything, I ask the President of the Senate to understand and know what happened. 100 and more senators called for a Commission of Inquiry to be set up, in the light of this fact, which is truly disconcerting to learn: EUR 19 million allocated to high-ranking state bureaucrats. But is it possible that the Minister of Infrastructure does not rush in this afternoon to report on these disconcerting situations? PRESIDENT. - The debate is His solicitation will be represented to the President of the Senate and the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-07-01-LEG17-Senato-sed-475.ana.u190	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.59 p.m.
