ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u4	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Mr President, in reminding you that 354 people have landed last night, including 50 minors and three pregnant women, I would also like to ask you to be excited about this and to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u8	Colleagues, I would like to read the schedule of proceedings. The Conference of Leaders has integrated the agenda of the Assembly next week with the discussion of the report on the financial effects arising from the decision of the Constitutional Court No 70 of 2015, on the indexation of pensions, presumably on Wednesday 17 June, at the end of the review by the Budget Commission. Therefore, next week's work will resume with the follow-up to the unfinished draft legislation. It has also been established that the Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 25 and 26 June will take place at 9.30 a.m. on Wednesday 24 June. The times have been divided among the Groups. Also on Wednesday 24 June, at the opening of the afternoon sitting, the vote will take place, by means of ballot papers with the open ballot box system, for the election of a member of the Council of President of the Court of Auditors. Following a request made by a parliamentary group, today's afternoon session will end at the end of the examination of the draft law on the crime of street murder.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u11	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Unfortunately, Mr President, I must say with disappointment that the request that we made, thanks also to the extraordinary convocation, to which you gave your assent, of the Conference of the Leaders, was not accepted by the majority of the Government. Apparently, the invasion of 3,500 people (who I repeat flee from poverty, war and misery in our country) is not an emerging problem. There is no emergency in the Mediterranean, there is no emergency in our coasts, there is no emergency for our armed forces. It is not considered that Parliament does what I have called the Conference of Leaders an act of supplement to the government's inactivity. We are in a condition for which we voted on 22 April last motions and resolutions which provided for agreements in Europe and the use of Article 42 of Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, which allow, where the resolution was adopted in the Security Council, targeted actions, in this case on the Libyan coasts, to prevent boarding on ships, on these ships of the sea, which then do nothing but sink and which we must rightly help to prevent hundreds of deaths at sea. All this happens in the total and absolute indifference of the Government and the majority. We felt that it was extraordinarily urgent and useful for this to be examined in Parliament, but unfortunately neither the Senate nor the House was able to do so. It was postponed until 24 June, on the occasion of the President-in-Office's Communications. So it's gonna be two more weeks. 3,000 people will spend every day landing on our shores. It was felt that it was necessary to relegate and defuse that day, even in the Commission, as Minister Boschi said, an issue that seems vital to me for the security of our country and of Italian citizens. We find this absolutely intolerable and we will continue our fight so that Parliament can tackle this problem. You will notice this problem when every day the Italian cities will be submerged by thousands of people that the European countries will refuse to accept because there is not even the agreement on quotas between the European countries! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] When you finally face this international emergency, which everyone seems not interested in including the Italian Government, when it arrives at your doorstep, you will see this problem. We therefore believe that it is profoundly wrong to have access to our request and I do not know what will happen in the coming weeks. I just hope that what we think will not happen, unfortunately, because, as far as we are concerned, there are hundreds of thousands of people on the doorstep of our home. That the Italian Parliament is not interested in a problem of this importance seems to me frankly - I repeat - intolerable. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u12	Senator Romani, are you proposing to change the calendar to be voted on? ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, I propose that the debate on the motion which has been tabled be included on the agenda tomorrow afternoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u15	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I would just like to say to the House - you will be able to confirm this - that at the Conference of the Heads of Groups several opposition groups asked, in addition to the request made by Forza Italia about which Senator Romani has just spoken, also the possibility of an information in the Chamber, as quickly as possible, of the Minister of the Interior, in order to be able to discuss with him the very serious and significant events that are going through the country in these hours. As far as the Mixed-SEL Group is concerned, I have asked this in particular about the issue of the CARA of Mineo and, indeed, about all the issues related to refugee reception centres, which we are reading in the newspapers. Other Groups have also made the request on other issues, such as the story of Mafia Capital. I mean, I think I can say that, on the part of the government, there has been an assurance that this can happen over the next few days. However, I would like to inform the House of this, because if this is confirmed it is of course an account, and if it goes into oblivion, it is clear that we will disagree with the refusal to take our proposals into account.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u18	Montevecchi (M5S). I would also like to point out in this House that, in the Conference of Leaders, the 5 Star Movement has requested information in this House, in accordance with Article 62 of the Constitution, the Interior Minister Alfano and the Minister of Justice Orlando, for the facts that are affecting the administration of Rome, linked to the Mafia Capital investigation. We would like to point out that our request is to be able to inform both Mr Alfano, in his capacity as Minister for the Interior, and Mr Orlando, in his capacity as Minister for Justice. In fact, in addition to the serious facts that have affected the CARA of Mineo, the investigation into Mafia Capitale clearly revealed the presence of a very dense network of corruption that places this Parliament in the face of a very serious situation. We believe it is right that this Parliament should debate this in the presence of these two ministers. I would propose that this information be included no later than Wednesday or Thursday next week. We have also requested a premier question time, pursuant to Rule 151- bis, paragraph 2, of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, on the basis of the statements made by Salvatore Buzzi, who quotes explicitly (not because he is involved) the President of the Council. We therefore consider it useful for the President-in-Office of the Council to come to this House and report on the facts for which Salvatore Buzzi cites him.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u21	BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, as we have had the opportunity to represent this morning in the debate which opened at the Conference of the Leaders, there is an issue which is being discussed and which concerns the work of this Government and the President of the Council on the hottest fronts, which is also - we hope - the subject of an in-depth analysis and undertaking by the Council of Europe on 25 June. In this connection, in uniting and sharing the request that the Romans leader has already made this morning, I would add to this request the hypothesis that the Government, which I hope will take into account, wishes to make its communications to Parliament, as planned by you, both before the European Council and after the Council itself, so that we can know, in the hours immediately following the European Council, what commitments Europe has made on some particularly sensitive fronts, including immigration at the gates of Europe. That's what this is about. The issue of immigration, Mr President, is not just about Italy; Italy risks paying for it, but about Europe as a whole. I therefore ask whether the Government considers it most appropriate to report to the Parliamentary Houses on the outcome of the European Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u22	Senator Bonfrisco, since our timetable is 25 June and the European Council is scheduled for 25 and 26 June, I think that your request, which you have just explained, can be presented at a forthcoming Conference of Leaders, which will certainly be held. Let me therefore not put it to the vote now, given that the timetable for proceedings is up to 25 June. With regard to requests for the hearing of the Minister of the Interior, Alfano, and the Minister of Justice, Orlando, the Minister for Relations with Parliament has taken the task of contacting the two Ministers to know their willingness, which he has taken for granted. It is therefore a matter of setting the dates for next week.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u25	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, on the one hand we are partially satisfied with the acceptance by Minister Boschi of the request made by the 5 Star Movement and the League for a hearing by Ministers on the events under investigation by Mafia Capitale. We are also pleased with the decision to include the issue of the CARA di Mineo, proposed by SEL's colleagues. If we could hold a single debate on these two issues, we are willing to intervene and reason on them, also because they are still illegal and embarrassing situations for our country. On the other hand, we would like to express our concern and our support for President Romani's request to start a debate in this House on a subject that we consider not only important, but fundamental for our country, that of immigration. At this moment, we are subject to an invasion and a biblical exodus, which starts from the coasts of Africa. We'll pick them up directly with the ships in the Libyan territorial waters. We ourselves are the creators and proponents of this exodus and this invasion in our home. As a result, Mr President, we believe that we need to start a debate with a view to the sitting on 24 June and with a view to the two days of 25 and 26 June, when our President-in-Office of the Council will be engaged in what many call an impossible mission, that is to say, in trying to have more help from the whole of Europe and a division of quotas, even if we know very well that this division will not happen (perhaps we will be able to have it from the beginning of July). It is important to start this debate immediately, so that Parliament begins to talk about issues which, without taking away the importance of what we are dealing with at the moment, are on the agenda, not in this House but outside, in public opinion and in everyday life, where we are talking about Mafia Capital, CARA di Mineo and above all immigration. So we must try to understand and confront each other between the various political forces on the concrete solutions that this Government must start to activate and implement; otherwise we will always be talking about the sex of angels or we will have to confront each other in the various TV talk shows in which we say so many words but nothing ends. On the subject of immigration we would like to begin to understand and to have concrete answers from the gentlemen who are sitting before you, Mr President, on the benches of the Government, and we would like to start having them already in the next few days. President Romani proposed to start talking about it tomorrow: we are also willing to talk about it on Tuesday, there are no problems. Between tomorrow and Tuesday little changes, because, as Senator Candiani rightly says, we are doing nothing. We've been talking about this for a long time, but we keep making promises, saying, "We'll do, say, we'll bring and we'll ask." In the meantime, however, let's pick them up on the coast of Africa, make tour operators, take them directly to Italy and then distribute them to the various hotels. The summer season is approaching and more than 1,000 of them arrive a day, which we bring to our shores. As a result, Mr President, the sooner we talk about this, the sooner we make concrete proposals, the sooner we can stop this invasion, the sooner it seems that some are also architects and supporters, given that immigration for some parties means increasing their own coffers. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u26	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings, put forward by Senator Romani Paolo. It's not approved. I still have the counterproof. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings, made by Senator Montevecchi, on the question time for the Premier. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final. We await the communications from Minister Boschi on the timetable of the information of the ministers Alfano and Orlando.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u27	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 859, 1357, 1378, 1484 and 1553, in the unified text proposed by the Commission. I would remind you that the replies of the representatives of the Government took place in the afternoon sitting and articles 2 to 7 of the unified text proposed by the Commission were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u28	No, Mr President, I maintain the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u29	I, too, maintain the text, Mr President, because if the deleterious amendment is adopted, Article 589 of the penal code, which provides for the sentence of imprisonment from two to seven years: the behaviour of those who pass through the red light, is still sanctioned, but not in this area so highly punitive from seven to ten years.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u30	I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u31	President. - The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u32	I too, Mr President, confirm the opinion that has already been expressed this morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u33	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,114, which is identical to Amendment 1,115.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u36	SANTANGELO (M5S). I renew your request that the votes be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u39	FALANGA (CRI). Madam President, only to ask, if the signatories agree, to sign both amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senators Philippi and Orellana, do you agree? FILIPPI (PD). No, ma'am. Orellana (Mist). All right, I'll take it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u42	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, once again I appeal to this House to clarify what we are doing. [[Comments from the PD Group]] If you'll excuse me, this is important.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u43	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, Senator Giovanardi is legitimately speaking for an explanation of vote, so I would ask you to let him speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u44	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). For the simple reason that I was asked to reformulate an amendment that I have tabled, it is clear that our vote on these amendments depends on what will be accepted. Let's recapitulate: for alcohol, drugs, street pirates are expected up to eighteen years in prison if more people are killed. Who, having done absolutely nothing wrong but maybe has a slumber stroke (it can happen to anyone who drives) takes up to eighteen years in prison in case his behavior results in the death of two people. We have, that is, equalized the attitude of the drunken pirate and drugged to that of the mother of the family, of the worker, of the student who in life can have a fatality of this kind, passing with the red traffic light, crashing a road with the fog and counterhand. So, I simply asked that, without prejudice to the eighteen years of imprisonment provided for the drug addict, the drunk and those who go at crazy speed, in other cases this rule should not be applied. In the current proposal to repeal it is already foreseen that those who kill more than one person, in violation of the road code, take up to fifteen years in prison. So let us all maintain the forecast of imprisonment up to fifteen years and not eighteen years. If the amendment that I have tabled is not accepted, for those who burn the stop and kill two people, when we have repealed the other article currently in force, there is no aggravating factor; those who sleep and pass with red do eighteen years in jail. Explain the logic. Do we want to differentiate the case of the road pirate, drunk, drugged, or who goes 250 an hour from who, maybe even 30 an hour, makes a turnaround, or with the fog take the wrong road? That sounds reasonable. If the government says it doesn't want to vote on this amendment, it might as well be voting for the repeal of the rule that punishes the crossing with red. Put yourself in the shoes of the driver: the voluntary arson murder in our country is punished with a minimum prison sentence of twenty-one years and if someone has the misfortune to cause an accident without any fault he is sentenced to eighteen years of imprisonment. Does it seem to you that there is a proportion, when all those who put themselves on the street can take this risk? This does not solve the problem of the victim, who could also be a family member, who could be a victim of a car accident as well as a person who causes it without wanting a car accident. Before voting, I would therefore ask the Government and the rapporteur whether we are going to do a fair deal or whether we are only going to find out when a mother of the family will be sentenced to 18 years in prison that we have done something that is neither in heaven nor on earth. I would ask the government to clarify this point. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u45	I address a greeting to eight mayors of Pinerolese who are visiting the Senate and who follow our work from the forums. They are, in particular, the mayors of Piossasco, Garzigliana, San Pietro Val Lemina, Bobbio Pellice, Reverse Pinasca, San Secondo and Porte. We are very proud of this visit. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u48	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Madam President, I rise to speak on behalf of my Group in favour of the amendments we are talking about and also to ask Senator Orellana to be able to add the signature to the amendment he has tabled. I will not tell you the reasons, because as incredible things happen in this House, I happen for the first time in my life to agree with Senator Giovanardi. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Carraro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u49	Senator Orellana, do you accept your amendment application? Orellana (Mist). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u52	ROMANI Maurizio (Misto-MovX). Madam President, both I and Senator Bignami are asking for the signature to be added to Amendments Nos 1,114 and 1,115, and I too must say that for the first time I am in agreement with Senator Giovanardi, which is all to say.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u53	It will add its signature to the amendment tabled by Senator Orellana, which is open to other subscriptions.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u54	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure, previously made by Senator Santangelo, is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,114, tabled by Senator Filippi, identical to amendment 1,115, tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Misto-SEL groups.]] Let us move on to Amendment No 1,117, on which a proposal for a rewording by the rapporteur has been made. Senator Filippi, do you welcome her? FILIPPI (PD). No, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak again about it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u55	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u56	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u57	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 1.117 tabled by Senators Philippi and Gatti. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD, M5S and Mixed-SEL Groups]] We move on to amendment 1,125 (text 2), on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u58	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u59	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u60	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.125 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u63	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). I understand, at this point, that points 3 and 4 of the fourth paragraph have been deleted, and my amendment refers precisely to these issues... I address the rapporteur, Mr President. Rapporteur, please pay attention to Senator Giovanardi. GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). I agree that the sentence remains for up to eighteen years for alcohol, drugs and high speed, because those who go 60 kilometers an hour beyond the permitted or twice the permitted in the historical centers are clearly putting themselves and others at risk, like the drug addict and like the one who drank. On the other hand, it seems right to differentiate the remaining cases - I do not know what is left - and treat them exactly as those who do not respect the stop sign or who break the road code. Let's make a homogeneity and differentiate the case of those who consciously put others at risk from the fatality that can happen to anyone who has a car accident, which must not lead to having up to eighteen years in prison. Then, if, in the light of what has happened, the amendment needs to be reworded, we do so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Giovanardi, is there a problem of coordinating the text or a new amendment? GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). I'll be right there. If points 3 and 4 have been deleted from the text of amendment 1,125, we have repealed what concerned - if I am wrong, the rapporteur corrects me - the reversal of the direction of the road, the curves and the bumps, the pedestrian crossing and the boat crossing; we have only maintained what concerns the red traffic light. Right? [[Comments by the rapporteur]] If it is not right to clarify, this is evident from the reading of the amendments. I read the amendments. I ask the rapporteur to help me.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u64	The rapporteur will then take the floor for clarification.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u67	FALANGA (CRI). Madam President, Amendment 1,125, which was first signed by Senator Giovanardi, still calls - and this was the point I made this morning, when I said that perhaps the adoption of Senator Orellana's amendment 1,101, which excluded ship murder, required some attention for everyone to adapt to this prediction - infringements of the Navigation Code. The reformulation is of an exquisitely technical nature. If this amendment was adopted... There is a text 2, which perhaps you have, which no longer understands, if I understood correctly, this reference. FALANGA (CRI). All right, then, fine. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So the objection is over. I would ask the rapporteur to clarify what Senator Giovanardi said. From what appears to the Presidency, in the fourth paragraph of Article 589-a, paragraph 1 and point 4 survive, as numbers 2 and 3 have been deleted.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u68	The number 4) concerns the nautical matter; therefore it had already been abolished previously. In fact, Senator Giovanardi can be reassured: it remains exactly what he proposed this morning, that is, only the road murder resulting from the use of drugs or alcoholic substances and high speed. Moreover, the amendment tabled by Senator Giovanardi is now in force, so the opposite opinion already expressed this morning remains.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u71	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, we are deciding on the lives and deaths of people. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, but it's still number one. GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). There was a new fact: two amendments were adopted. Obviously the two amendments concerned an issue on which my amendment insists, which at this point I withdraw, because it no longer makes sense to put it to the vote. I would just point out that the government, with its attitude, has rejected a solution which would have maintained, as behavior to be sanctioned more severely, the red light and others of similar nature, but not with eighteen years of imprisonment. His behavior has determined that the Senate, which is sovereign, has erased even that part, which will not be punished more severely. Basically, the government's fault is that it didn't understand - and it still doesn't understand but we hope the House understands it - that in these events there are victims, that they are the people who die in a car accident, there are families, there are street pirates that must be condemned, but there are also the tragedies - as I said this morning - of the five people who committed suicide...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u72	Excuse me, Senator Giovanardi, you announced the withdrawal of the amendment. Amendment 1,125 (text 2) is therefore withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u75	Bisinella (Misto-FAL). Madam President, I am speaking on behalf of the Mixed Group - Federalism, Autonomy and Freedom to stress the important step forward that this House is taking today with the approval of the crime of road murder. We have voted firmly on the amendment as we will vote on the final text because we believe it to be a due act and finally a sign of civilisation. Certainly the measure will not refresh all those who have lost their loved ones because of events of such seriousness. Our thoughts and our closeness, at this moment, go above all to the families of the victims on the road, to all those associations and groups that have been fighting for this battle of civilization for decades now. We believe that the country must give certain and safe answers in terms of repression of conduct of this type, that is to say of those who are driving a vehicle using drugs, alcohol or in any case putting into action behaviours knowingly, consciously dangerous, absolutely irresponsible, risky, that can undermine the safety, life and health of others, causing serious injuries or accidents, serious. Too many cases have occurred. Some, unfortunately, are reported every day from the news. Together with these associations, which have been fighting for years for this purpose, we call for certain, strict penalties to be applied and taken for granted. Too often, unfortunately, there are cases of very serious conduct that remain unpunished or people who are guilty of such crimes within a short period of time are released from prison. What is important for us to stress is the need to act on the prevention front, starting also from training in schools, with the involvement of regions and local authorities. We are therefore in favour of an increase in the budget for the prevention fund. We also want to mean a very important aspect that is implied here: controls. Strict checks on vehicles, motor vehicles and the issue of licences are necessary. I refer to all the cases of immigrants present in our territory who circulate without even having an appropriate title. I am referring to the licences taken abroad by those who then circulate in our national territory and to the many cases of failure to control the insurance system of the means. So, there's still a lot to do. However, we are convinced that this is an important step forward and we hope that the House will also be able to reach an early conclusion. It is only a political will to bring this measure into force as soon as possible. Therefore, certain and rigorous penalties, response effect and an important signal for all those who unfortunately lost their loved ones because of such irresponsible conduct. [[Applause from Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u78	MUSSINI (Misto-MovX). Madam President, I am speaking on behalf of the Mixed Group, whose different sensitivities are reflected, particularly in this draft law, also in the variety of votes. In essence, the draft law under consideration was born of an intense and very important public debate that starts first of all from the undoubted need to counter the spread of the phenomenon of road mortality. We are talking about road murder, so about about 3,000 deaths and even injuries, 250,000 injuries; one third of such accidents are due to altered driving. Work in the Commission has been hard and difficult, because it is difficult to achieve democratic sharing on these issues, as we saw yesterday and today in this House, but I deeply believe in the value of parliamentary work as it has been done in the Commission and in this House. Significant changes have been made in the Commission in relation to the starting point and there has been some rethinking in this House: for example, the nautical sector had been included and it has been eliminated in this House. We have tried to work in depth first and then, even with the latest amendments voted on in Article 1, we have tried to do that operation - which in my opinion was necessary - to restrict for the moment the object of the measure in order to try to create a virtuous mechanism and really give the draft law under consideration a deterrent purpose, as well as of course adding elements of prevention. In particular, we have tried to restrict the subject of the text to those behaviors that I would call serial; I am referring to that margin of awareness (which in the Commission has made us discuss a lot between guilt and dole) that actually leads people, when they are in a state of alteration, to take the lead anyway, that is to say the margin of awareness that leads people to adopt reckless driving behaviors by exaggerating in speed. Certainly there are some behaviors that perhaps we could call serials, such as the use of electronic equipment; perhaps we could intervene in a more harsh way with regard to the suspension of the licence, even for life. We consider this in these terms: it is a first step however important to give an answer not only to the outside (the associations of the victims of road accidents), but also to those generations that really have to start (young and old, because this problem is not only about young people) to perceive driving with a sense of responsibility. Therefore, when driving and you are aware that you are not in a position to do so, you have to know that this is a discriminatory element in order to aggravate the consequences of a fact that can be tragic, exicial or, in any case, very serious for the innocent victim of irresponsible behavior. Clearly there are aspects that worry you, because you can't think of a light heart to increase your penis. It is also clear that all too often in this House we have seen the increase in penalties as the main reference for responding to behavior outside the rules. I take this opportunity once again to reiterate that compliance with the rules comes from the example, that the first example is given by those to whom we look as models, whether they are educational models, in administration, in society and also in politics; and I therefore take the opportunity to reiterate that the model of compliance with the rules is something that is not simply exhausted in seeing them split up so that today we are talking about speeding, driving in altered state. No! It's a way of feeling. It is the way we feel that we, first of all, must try to induce citizens with a conscious and respectful attitude to the rules. This becomes a virtuous contagion that can only be illuminating for the new generations and the only real way to make sure that, as happens in many countries who want to go out in the evening and want to drink a glass establishes that he will not drive the car and that therefore either he will have someone else drive it, or he will call a taxi, or he will go on foot: he will adopt those that seem banal, but instead they are behaviors in line with an attitude respectful of the code and of the lives of others. [[Applause from the Mixed-MovX Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u81	FALANGA (CRI). Madam President, the current rule - Article 589 of the Criminal Code - provides for the person responsible to be punished, in all cases of homicide resulting from road traffic in violation of the rules of conduct laid down by the Road Code, solely on the assumption that the fatal event is never actually wanted by the driver. However, from the point of view of actual psychic factuality, it cannot escape (and this is the main reason for the insuffering of critics to the present system) that, in some possible dynamics... [[Brusio]] President, be courteous! Will you beg this little group not to bother me? PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite Senator Rossi and the other senators to lower the volume of the conversation and allow Senator Falanga to carry out his speech quietly. FALANGA (CRI). Thank you, Madam President. As I said, there is no doubt that in some possible dynamics of realization of the sinister the subject has actually manifested an attitude of the will more... [[Brusio.]] President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senators! Have the creativity and respect for Senator Falanga. Could Senator Rossi please turn to the presidency? Senator Rossi, can you turn to the presidency and sit at your desk? Go ahead, Senator Falanga. FALANGA (CRI). Therefore, there is no doubt that in some possible dynamics of realization of the sinister the subject has actually manifested an attitude of the will more intense and aware and, therefore, deserving of greater censorship (it is the case of alcohol and drugs, or excessive speed). In this case it appears more in line with truth to recognize that the nature of the act is, at least in the initial phase, voluntary and conscious and that the real connotation of the psychological coefficient supporting it is not correctly described by the category of guilt. It is, moreover, an unpublished theme, so much so as to find consecration in a brocardo dating back to the Christian tradition of canon law or causae est causa caused: whoever voluntarily determines a situation from which a harmful event derives is called to respond to the event itself. Nor, on the other hand, is this theory unknown to our penal code that, in fact, applies it with the provision of Article 87 of the penal code on pre-ordered inability and inspires, in some way, also the incriminating norm referred to in Article 586 of the penal code in the matter of death or injury as a consequence of other crime. For this verse and with these reasons there is no doubt that there is a need to intervene with an autonomous crime figure that provides for a stricter, stricter penalty for those who, by putting themselves in the driving of a car after taking drugs or alcoholic substances, must be punished and punished. The problem that causes us not to be able, as a Group, to vote in favour of this measure is the sanctioning system that has been imagined. Yesterday, in my general speech, I highlighted the criticism of the measure, even in a framework of general sharing on the need for regulatory action in this area. I have reserved the decision of our Group to vote on the measure or not for the outcome of the vote on the amendments. However, apart from the favourable expression of vote which was given a moment ago in the case of the driver crossing the red light, on which we voted in favour, there were all the amendments which, in some way, sought to create a more normal arrangement within the framework of our entire criminal system, with stricter penalties. Let us not forget, however, that recently these penalties have already been increased by Decree-Law No 92 of 2008, converted, with amendments, by Law No 125 of 2008, which provided precisely for the increase of punishment for the case of manslaughter. But to provide for such strict rules, which must be seen in a context of comparison with other crimes provided for and punished by our code and, to be honest, to see that for certain crimes, of much more social alarm or, however, of even more significant severity than road murder, lower penalties are provided, leads us to make a reflection. We have tabled amendments which, in some way, make this penalty system more consistent than the fact and compared to the entire criminal system. These amendments have not been adopted. The rapporteur and the government have expressed their opposition to them, essentially wanting to maintain such high penalties to give, in my opinion, an answer that is the usual commercial. Tomorrow morning we must be able to say that we withdraw our driving licence for twenty or thirty years and that we expect an 18-year sentence for a road homicide case, giving satisfaction to that part of the public opinion that has criticized the current system, demanding higher penalties. But time will give us reason, because, when the penalties are increased in such a written and disproportionate way to the fact and the system, over the years we will realize the mistakes we have made. We did it with the crime of corruption, and for crimes against the public administration. We've come to have excessive, extraordinarily excessive pains. We will realize, over time, that this sanctioning system is suggested only by an emotional wave, only by the need to give answers, to hear us say: what good, you have foreseen very severe penalties, from fifteen to eighteen to twenty years, for crimes that today are at the attention of the public opinion. We have done this, but we have done harm to our criminal system. In fact, as a criminal expert, even though I am a lawyer, I trust that criminalists in this House and the magistrates will also realize that this measure is creating a dystonia that will remain historic and will lead to very worrying consequences just as a cultural fact, not as much as done in itself. This mania of law-making on the wave of emotion and belly is the more wrong a legislator can do. For these reasons, although we agree, as I have just said, with the need for an intervention to draw up the crime of road murder, our Group, because it shares the premise, but not the sanctioning system, will abstain from voting on this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u84	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, as we have also pointed out in the general debate, today we come to vote on this measure, with a rather stormy course in view of the last votes, in order to solve a very serious problem. As we noted, we are talking about the fact that over four years - it is the ISTAT data for the period between 2008 and 2012 - there have been 1,000 deaths and 35,000 injuries as a result of injuries caused by people intoxicated or under the influence of drugs. The examination of this measure actually began last year in the Commission Justice, where, at the hearing, several parties felt themselves. We are therefore talking about a year to come to this measure today, which - I fear - in view of the outcome of the votes which have been made with regard to the last amendments, will certainly be modified by the House of Deputies. This is a delay that does not give an answer to all those citizens and all those people who are offended and those family members who have seen a joint of theirs die, a friend of theirs, a loved one of theirs on a road, perhaps precisely because of an absolutely vile and shameful conduct of those who have been driving in a state of drunkenness. Of this bill we approve and we definitely agree with the provision of ancillary penalties. As a Group of the North League, in fact, we have supported, in particular, the figure of the so-called life sentence of the licence, which has been talked about a lot. Perhaps this is a rather vulgar way of talking about an institution that, on the other hand, wants to be very serious. The draft law currently provides for the withdrawal of the licence in the most serious cases and the possibility to redo it, depending on the case, after fifteen, twenty or thirty years. We, on the other hand, are of the view that those who cause the death of a person who knowingly decided, himself, to drive drunk or drugged, should never again obtain a new driving licence. This is not to emphasize the punitive aspect, but to emphasize the deterrent. In fact, only when you see and you have the certainty that the penalties as severe as that of the imprisonment and that accessory of the revocation of the license with the impossibility to redo it are applied, who has the possibility to choose whether to get in the car drunk or sober, maybe will decide to leave the guide to others. It's also okay to predict the worsening of the sentence. Among other things, a bill signed by Senator Stucchi had already provided for a long time (because this bill is not so recent) the worsening of the penalty precisely in the case of road murder and in the case of those who put themselves to drive in a state of drunkenness. In some ways, we are surprised by the incoherence of this majority and this Government, since, in a case like this, probably on the emotional wave of the various associations that push for the approval of this street murder, it has been expected the tightening of penalties. Many of my colleagues have also raised the existence of a certain discrasia of the system, including these penalties for some considered almost exaggerated. We believe that this inconsistency has been felt by the majority and the government. In fact, we currently expect a tightening of penalties, but at the same time, this Government and this majority have launched, in the last two years, a series of empty-carriage rules and measures that provide for early release, non-criminality and a whole series of benefits, to the point that there has been a real emptying of prisons, with a decisive reduction in the number of persons recluse. So it is not possible to understand whether this Government and this majority want the rigour, the application of the sentence, the tightening up, a particular social rigour, a particular rigour in the area of criminal law and the right of criminal procedure, or if they do so only because at this moment we want to give the feeling to these poor citizens that the Government is thinking of them as well. The inconsistency, however, without reaching this point, is also apparent at the voting stage. On the basis of the latest amendments that have been adopted, some assumptions have been removed from the forecast for road murder. However, these assumptions, such as red traffic lights or counter-hand traffic, still exist as far as road injuries are concerned. I wonder at this point whether, when we vote, we are talking about what we are voting on or whether we are moving forward - forgive me - a little at random. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We hope that this incoherence will be overcome by the House and that the House will get its hands on it at this point, even if - I regret to say - we in the Senate have had to repair the damage done by the other branch of Parliament more than once. Perhaps now the House will replace us in this capacity of censors and repairers and arrange the text. Finally, we want to say that, despite the perplexity about the structure of this measure, we, as a Group of the North League, will vote in favour, while noting that, as has already happened in the case of other measures, it is not enough simply to tighten the sentence and not just get out with the umpteenth slide - perhaps now our President of the Council - or with the umpteenth tweet, saying that we have solved the problem of road murder. Let us remember that road murder already exists in our system and therefore it is not an invention of this Government; what is now expected is a tightening of penalties. However, alongside this right activity, which we share, the system of road safety culture must be programmed, deepened and certainly improved. We must work on prevention, which takes place through education to respect the rules and the code of the road and through awareness of the consequences of drinking. However, it is also necessary that resources are provided to the Forces of Order, in order to carry out the checks; this means having men, means and tools to do the various alcohol tests, the various checks and so on. It is also hoped that greater responsibility will be assumed by all legal practitioners, from the police to the judiciary, at the time when the rule will apply. As mentioned earlier, the rule already exists, but it probably has not been applied in the strictest sense of the term. We hope that now the standard, as it is structured and as I hope it will be improved and adjusted by the House, can be applied effectively. We share the perplexity of those who say that we are only here to increase the penalties, probably also creating discrasies of the system. We are aware that probably ferocious penis that no one applies are useless. We certainly need penalties applied; we say that there must be certainty of punishment. The person who commits a fact must know exactly what will happen to it. Unfortunately, in the last two years, in the procedure and in criminal law as they have been launched by this House, this majority and this Government, we have gone in exactly the opposite direction. We North League want a few things. First of all, we want rigour, extreme and serious rigour, because we are in a difficult historical moment, where respect for the law, respect for civil society and respect for other people must overcome everything else, because this is the basis of our society. Respect of the sentence and certainty of the sentence. That is why we are going to vote in favour of the measure, as I said, even though we are concerned about it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u87	Barani (GAL (GS, LA-nS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF)). Mr President, of course, the Group of the Grand Autonomousists and Freedoms is differentiated within itself: there will be many of us who will vote in favour and some will abstain: I, in particular, will vote against the measure and I will vote against it. The fact that we need to address the issue of so-called road murder is beyond doubt, but it is important to do so in the right way, that is, without unnecessary excesses which would run the risk of conflicting with some of the rules on justice already adopted by Parliament, which have set themselves the objective of reducing the prison population. It is useless to repeat once again the state of the art on this issue, which many have been very interested in, from the European Union to the former President of the Republic and our colleague Giorgio Napolitano. To foresee today, for a crime such as street murder, excessively long prison sentences and by their nature difficult to commute into alternative penalties seems frankly anachronistic compared to the work carried out by the parliamentary assemblies during the current legislature. In addition, I firmly believe that in this case too, the key to putting a stop to such a long-standing problem must be prevention: it is a word unknown to this House, to this legislature and to the legislator. It is useless to close the barn when the oxen have escaped: I cannot understand how happy the rapporteur can be to say that we have put a person who has killed a child in prison for 12 years, rather than saying that he has done everything to ensure that that child does not die. It is the substantial difference between those who prevent and guarantee and those who only have punitive penis in mind, without if and without but. Our Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, is clear. I have heard some colleagues talk about a life sentence: then why don't we whip them, why don't we apply the death penalty to them? I don't quite understand what you're going to do. In my opinion we must try to prevent, as has always been done: I had the opportunity to recall, during the illustration of some amendments - some of which, if God wills, have been approved - that the legislator of the 11th and 12th legislatures has done something more, that is, it has set a speed limit at 110 and 130 km per hour, it has introduced the obligation to wear the helmet and the safety belts, it has made the revision of the cars mandatory after four years and introduced more accurate visits for the obtaining of the license. Also in this case it must be considered that making a visit every ten years is useless, but doing it after two or three years is much more important - in this way prevention is done - and maybe, during that type of visit, you could make obligatory the examination of the hair and the liver tests to check if the subject does systemic abuse of alcohol. The objective must therefore be to avoid, as far as possible, driving without being in full possession of their abilities and without being altered by alcohol and drugs. We must educate our children: this type of civic education must start assiduously from the schools and the Ministry of Education of the university and of research must be active so that from the schools of first and second grade, up to the high school, there is this type of information and that, during the courses and examinations for obtaining the licence, the examinations, which must be carried out in a serious way. And then it takes certainty not of the penalty, but the certainty that our patrols of control are on all roads and at all hours; the certainty that each of us knows that at least once a week, if not once a day, is stopped to be subjected to the alcohol test, to the checks. That's what we have to do. This is prevention. It's not about giving 12 or 18 years in prison, or - as I heard - taking your driver's license for life. Look, ladies and gentlemen, there are also workers who, with their drivers' licenses, work. There are tens of thousands of families living in the middle of the street. It's obvious that this isn't about arson, it's about accident, it's about something accidental, it's about manslaughter, it's not about arson. Imagine such harsh pains for those who cause a road accident with fatal outcomes, because they are driving in altered psychophysical state, seems to me to be overcool with what is expected in the case of those who are found by the police forces driving in the same state, but do not cause any accident. There are children and stepchildren: in both cases they are drunk subjects, but one is lucky enough not to do accidents, unlike the other. And this difference seems to me even more unnecessarily excessive considering that it is certainly to be excluded any character of voluntaryness in causing a car accident. As has already been pointed out in this House during the debate on this measure, all Italian families are potential victims of the road to the same extent that they are likely to be on the other side of the barricade, that is, on the side of those who, certainly out of irresponsibility, but certainly not by malice, cause a fatal accident, even in ridiculous percentages (one, two, three percent). Following emotions on such sensitive issues is not the right way. One cannot always run after populism, the belly, and one cannot think of putting a piece to certain problems that must instead be tackled seriously at the root. For this reason I insist on the importance of prevention, in order to put education, the focus of any modern society, before mere punishment ends in itself. As if to say: we put them in prison for twelve years, we are happy. Instead, I say: we must prevent that child from suffering a fatal accident on the road, which is different. I continue to believe that by instinctively increasing the penalties, as well as already done with other measures, it is not the solution and does not contribute decisively to solving the problems. So far we have seen that the increase in the penalties in the road code has not had any effect, as it has not done for all other crimes, because we must prevent them. A serious legislator, capable, competent, makes laws of prevention, and not of repression. This methodology is too weak a deterrent, especially in the case of rules with such a wide social impact. We need culture and, therefore, a proper education. Only prevention can be useful in this direction, and we should invest in it. But this is the difference between those who are willing to see in prison for years and years a young man who drank half an extra glass of wine before returning home to his parents and those who fight for that same boy to be accompanied. Of course, as Mr Giovanardi said before, those who are lucky enough to have good incomes can afford the driver, that is, those who lead him where and when he wants, unlike the poor devil. Look, ladies and gentlemen - and I shall conclude, Madam President - when I also hear my colleague from the League, there are a lot more accidents in the North. Non-EU citizens and those who travel without a driver's license, without a registration or without insurance, are never stopped, and those few times that are arrested, are let go by our judges because they have committed a minor offence. It is much more important to be able to have a politician to put under press, even if innocent, because it gives him visibility in front of his friends, his girlfriends, in the world in order to himself in which they live. And, therefore, let us also encourage the use of means in an obsolete way, which do not have security and also insurance guarantees. By declaring my vote against, therefore, I believe that this law says only one thing: we must invest in prevention and stop increasing only the penalties. Even predicting the life sentence of a driver's license seems to me to be too much.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u90	D'ASCOLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I shall be voting in favour of the People's Area Group immediately, because this measure - it should be remembered - is also part of a tradition of our code, which treats drunkenness with extreme severity, and in particular the voluntary one. And he does so in the meantime with the preliminary statement that drunkenness does not exclude or diminish the ability to understand and want, and then with a very harsh discipline, that proper to voluntary drunkenness, by virtue of which he disciplined the subjective element through which the offence committed in a state of drunkenness is ascribed and the same subjective element with which some have been drunk. We have, therefore, a discipline that even transfers the subjective element of the moment when drunkenness is caused to the commission of the crime committed in a state of drunkenness. This highly criticized code of conduct, which has generated a whole series of discussions in the criminal world, is, however, a demonstration of a traditional harshness of the legislative treatment of drunkenness. We must understand - in this sense I agree with what Senator Barani has said, and then I will come back to this - that the solution of such problems is certainly prevention, and here I would say a system of security for citizens that actually passes through control. And I am referring to that social control which, with a political choice, indeed with a series of sensible political choices, at some point, in the name of a misunderstanding of the sense of freedom, was intended to eliminate. And today, in a certain sense, we should go back to ancient times. Therefore, I mean prevention through a widespread safety system that means control: without control you can't make security and you can't even implement prevention. Now, it is easy to criticize over-penalty by saying that it does not solve the problem of prevention and, in a sense, there is a share of truth in this statement, but it is not true. I agree with those who are intervening in this direction in recognizing that prevention plays an extremely limited role in the criminal offence. This we must understand, because the mechanism of manslaughter is characterized not by a voluntary disobedience, but by a disobedience precisely determined by imprudence, imprudence and negligence and, therefore, by mechanisms that serve the difficulty of relating to the criminal precept. Those who act in guilt are not consciously related to the criminal precept. Thus, manslaughter could also be punished with stratospheric punishment, but there would be no related reduction in manslaughter. However, as far as road homicide is concerned - and this is a reflection that I would like to give to the Senate Chamber - it must be said that severe sanctions act, and indeed act, on the prodromic facts of road homicide, i.e. on the voluntary intake of narcotics or psychotropic substances and on the intake of alcoholic substances. They are all behaviors, these, that are characterized, at least, for an initial phase of voluntary type. In short, the citizen who takes drugs or alcoholic substances in a regular or even frequent way today knows that a sensible intake of them, combined with driving cars, will be able to give him an extremely severe sanction. Therefore, the norm acts not on the manslaughter, but on the prodromic fact that determines that situation of enormous danger. I must also say, with regard to the criticisms raised about sanctions which are certainly heavy in relation to a manslaughter crime, at least in the traditional sense, which must be reflected. We reason on the traditional paradigm of guilt. But these crimes reveal a psychological structure that is partly differentiated from guilt, as we traditionally understand it. In our criminal system we have an aggravated form of guilt, the so-called crime with anticipation, that is to say, having acted in spite of the prediction of the event, which involves an assault of a common type and, therefore, the increase of the sentence up to a third. But foretold guilt does not make the gravity and the idea of these facts. In fact, a subject that arises in a state of obvious psychic alteration, which has direct reflections on its ability to react in the face of a situation of danger, almost nears the so-called eventual pain (I use this verb, because it is clear that the fault is never the eventual pain). In this case, however, there is a representation of the event in terms of even probability, even if it is an event caused without will, because the person who invests does not want the death of the people who invested, who does not even know. And, therefore, there is no malice - we must say it clearly - but there is a fault. The Anglo-Saxons - who have learned almost everything from us, but in some cases survived - have created an intermediate subjective figure, called recklessness, recklessness, that is, an intolerable level of guilt, typical of technological societies and equipped from the point of view of modernity and the problems that modernity itself imposes. We must know that, in our societies, certain activities, which are extremely dangerous but necessary, such as air transport, the manufacture of medicines, chemicals or explosives (we can obviously make a large number of examples, such as the use of a nuclear power plant), are put back to a small number of people, who are required, however, to comply with the precautionary rules. In short, modern society is a society of risk. Therefore, we cannot underestimate in this context reckless conducts that, in a certain sense, already imply not a mere representation of the event, but even almost a surreptitious form of acceptance of the occurrence of the event, even in a context in which it is clear that that event is not in any way desired. I say this in order to give an answer to the many justified, understandable and also shared concerns about a manslaughter that grows, but that is typical of the technological societies and societies in which certain dangerous activities are necessary because they are socially useful, but nevertheless they must be dominated by precautionary rules to be observed in a strict manner. I have to say, balancing, this time, my indication of the usefulness of strict rules in the matter of manslaughter in modern society, that however this event must be caused by fault. No one should think that some will respond to road murder if he is drunk but the event is not attributable to his manslaughter. The state of voluntary drunkenness and voluntary drug use is the condition that determines access to that autonomous and specialized form of murder which is, in fact, road murder. In any case, however, the presence of guilt must be found because, where the subject, even drunk or in a state of astonishment, had unblamed the event, it is clear that no one could Charge it to him. I shall conclude by agreeing on the need for a criminal security law because I believe, distinguished senators and very kind senators, that these events can only be resolved if one thinks of a criminal law of prevention and security. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. D'ASCOLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). I agree that it is pointless to cry about a child killed if that event could be avoided, but this chapter is still a path to be taken. We have not yet given serious thought to a criminal security law, which is really the most important problem of criminal science, which intervenes at events of course that have occurred, but which should instead think of proposing to the parliamentary forces a system capable of neutralizing the occurrence of those same events. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC) and the Senators Airola and Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u93	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Madam President, my fellow Senators, Mr. Representative of the Government, I believe that this measure can be summed up with one sentence: zero tolerance. Zero tolerance for drunk driving. Zero tolerance for those driving under the influence of drugs. Zero tolerance with those who hurt and kill innocent people as a result of serious violations of the highway code. Zero tolerance, because this law is on the side of the victims, because it aims first of all to protect the primary good of human life. There has long been talk of a decision taken on the wave of a media push. I don't think that's true for two reasons. First of all, it has long been an incardinated measure in the Commission for justice to the Senate, which has been the subject of weighting, discussions, hearings and in-depth discussions which lasted many months. Secondly, if the measure that is being discussed here today had come to the House three months ago, or even one or two years ago, it would probably have been the same. However, it would have been a measure taken on the wave of media drive, because three months ago, or a year or two years ago, however, it happened that acts of street murder ended up on the mass media exactly as now, for the simple fact that these events never stopped, continuing for a long time, for too long, and raising today as then a serious social alarm. The only reproach to be made in this House - and this is the case - is that it has not succeeded in intervening before to reduce this following of criminal events, because of the crimes involved. Road murder is the first cause of death in Italy among young people between the ages of twenty and thirty-five. We are talking about 3,650 victims of the road in 2013: it is a European record of which we cannot go very proud. On the contrary, it is a primacy that imposes on us, which requires Parliament to take courageous decisions. Of course, we know that it will not be this measure alone that will solve the problem of the victims of the road in our country. A national security campaign is required. This same measure will have to be strongly advertised before its entry into force, so that it can be achieved in our country at a level of widespread awareness of its content, because against road massacres it is primarily necessary a cultural change that - we all know - must start from school. We believe that this measure can, in itself, be an element of strong deterrent from carrying out unholy acts that endanger one's own life, but also that of others. It introduces very severe penalties, of course, such as the withdrawal of the license for very long periods, from fifteen years even to thirty years for the most serious cases of murder. However, it is the value of human life that we want to protect. It is the supreme value of human life that justifies the severity of the provision. In the case of road homicide committed by persons who are mentally and physically impaired by alcohol or drugs, we cannot and must no longer talk about manslaughter with the intention of emphasizing an involuntary act. Running a vehicle despite a severe state of psychophysical alteration means knowingly accepting the possibility of killing someone, as well as themselves. There is, therefore, a responsibility that goes far beyond mere guilt and that is what the measure rightly takes into account. As I come to the conclusion, I would like to address one last thought of closeness to all the victims of the road and their families. But I would also like to express my sincere thanks to all the citizens and all the associations that have been fighting for many years for the introduction of the crime of road murder in our system. This is certainly a long-awaited measure, but we believe that in its current formulation it can well meet so much of the legitimate expectations. The 5 Star Movement, therefore, expresses its vote in favour of this measure, while waiting that, thanks to the extent of deterrent of the norm, it can provide a concrete contribution to the reduction of the number of victims from road accidents in our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u96	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representative of the Government, the Forza Italia Group will abstain on this measure. On the problem of mortality in road accidents and on the need to implement all the necessary and reasonably possible measures to reduce them over the years there was, in fact, a great commitment from Forza Italia. Three legislatures ago, about ten years ago, the point driver's license was introduced, which, in the course of a few years, reduced road mortality: it had reached about 8,000 deaths a year on the roads of our country and, since the introduction of the point driver's license, there has been a constant decrease up to just over 3,000 today. They are always very high numbers - we must have the utmost respect for every single life - but it must be remembered that accidents in road traffic occurred before the introduction of motor vehicles. Therefore, we cannot think that it is possible to move quickly, and perhaps sometimes imprudently, without anything happening. We must, therefore, have the right balance in applying penalties and finding the most appropriate rules to deal with this phenomenon. In 2008 an aggravating circumstance was introduced of the manslaughter resulting from the violation of rules on road traffic, when the subject is in a state of alcohol or under the influence of drugs and today, to current laws, the edittal penalty goes from three to ten years, that is really not little: it is really the maximum and the minimum is still a strong message. However, the chronicles of both road accidents and judicial incidents tell us about particularly hateful incidents, highlighted by the media, which rightly make a remarkable impression to anyone who knows about them, because each of us and our families - as has been said before me - can be a potential victim of road traffic. However, we are witnessing cases where the perpetrators of fatal accidents, who may have involved more than one person and have done so under the influence of alcohol or narcotic drugs, then serve very little prison because - as we know - there are mitigating factors (for example, for those who are censored). A judge, in respect of an edittal sentence between three and ten years, may also decide in cases where there have been more deaths and where there are all possible aggravating factors, such as the very high speed in the town, driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol, or even both, rather than imposing a maximum penalty equivalent to ten years or close to the maximum, to keep very close to the minimum penalty or, even, to the minimum of three years. It is difficult to think of making a rule that always prevents a judge - for some reason he does it, which is difficult to understand, and let's imagine that some reason has it - to apply the minimum penalty. By not granting a minimum of discretion in the application of the sentence, one risks putting on the same level the always wrong behavior, always to be punished and horrible but fruit, in fact, of a distraction, and the clearly criminal behavior, perhaps repeated and put into action more than once (danger in which it risks to incur also the measure in question). 18.13 (Follows MALAN). Coming to the position on this specific measure, the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura Group has actively participated in the formation of the text. Several draft laws have been presented by Senators of the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura Group. However, we do not share the identification of road murder as a separate crime, because we end up putting in the foreground the instrument through which accidental death or accidental injury of a person is caused and not the real degree of guilt of the person who carries out that act. With the last changes made during this same afternoon sitting and, in particular with the cancellation of two numbers in the fourth paragraph of Article 1, we have reduced this danger a lot, but it remains in Article 2 concerning injuries. I am referring to the danger of imbalance pointed out by the rapporteur himself. We hope that, in the further examination of this measure in the other branch of Parliament, which I believe will make some changes, we will be able to make up for the defects clearly highlighted in this measure and to arrive at a rule as balanced as possible with respect to the need to avoid introducing disproportionate penalties for unintentional and non-criminal behaviours by uncensored persons. I regret that the amendment tabled by Senator Giovanardi, which proposed as mitigating, as a reason for the reduction of the sentence, has not gone away, and not already with regard to road murder (of course also on that), but in general with regard to that type of violation of the road code. And I am referring to those who have never been caught in violation of the road code in those specific ways: much higher speed than allowed, particularly dangerous behaviour on certain types of road or driving in a state of drunkenness or alteration due to the use of narcotic substances. Situations of this kind, I think, should be tackled differently than other behavior. Therefore, by reaffirming and claiming the extremely positive effects that have been achieved thanks to the measures adopted in the period 2003-2004 and then again in 2008 and 2009, and hoping that this measure will be further improved, we will vote with one abstention. We do not share some very problematic aspects of what is being proposed today, but we reaffirm our commitment and the successes achieved by past efforts to reduce mortality and, in general, road accidents. 18.15 p.m. (Malan followed). This task cannot, of course, be entrusted solely to the laws, let alone to the mere increase in penalties, but it must be a reminder of the responsibility of each citizen, who must know that when he is driving a vehicle (even if it is not powered), it can cause accidents, injuries and death. Therefore, education has its part and, appreciating the work done in the Commission and the proposal put forward by Senator Scilipoti Isgrò, we believe that we shall vote in abstention, in the hope that, in the end, the measure will be more balanced than it is now. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u99	GINETTI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, today, after many years of expectation and expectation, we are giving our legal system new instruments to combat road murder: the result of which the Commission has received justice following a significant hearing of the associations of the family members of the victims of the road, specialists, lawyers, but also, and above all, following a debate and a complex discussion, also in this House, in seeking the correct weighting of the legal assessments that have emerged and of the various political positions: weighting which has led - as also desired and suggested by the Government - to the consequent elimination and removal of the nautical part, only postponed to another place of examination; weighting between the need to repress serious conducts in violation of the rules of the road code, the violation of fundamental law, which is the right to life and personal safety, but with a regulatory provision that could serve rather as a deterrent to the recurrence of violations, thus prevention, even before repression, following the commission of the crime. It is not - as we have done better to express the families of the victims of the road - the search for an exemplary condemnation as compensation for a loss and a pain that will never and nothing be able to fill. But it is a question of guaranteeing the correct legal relevance to behaviors that constitute serious social disvalue, with penalties that can represent the weight of responsibility for harming the most important of rights. It is also a question of achieving European objectives in the field of road safety and the reduction of accidents, on which our country has already achieved significant results for years. The same Article 1 of the Road Code lays down the principle that the safety of persons in road traffic is one of the primary social and economic aims to be pursued. Yet, the data reported in 2013 tell us that, in Italy, there are over 182,000 accidents with injuries to people, although decreasing compared to the previous year. But what does not decrease, on the contrary, is the number of deaths on the asphalt: over 3,000, of which more than half young and very young, that is 2 children per week in 2013; 123 minors per year, on the pedestrian stripes, on scooter or bike, in the North as well as in the South of the country. This is a phenomenon, often caused by people driving under the influence of drugs and alcohol, despite the introduction in 2010 of the absolute ban on drinking for drivers under the age of twenty-one, newcomers and professional transporters, and those who are driving even without a driver's license. It is a phenomenon too often linked to so-called road piracy, of those fleeing from the place of the left, failing to provide rescue. The role of the legislator - our task - is to give answers to social phenomena, attributing legal importance to conduct already condemned by the community, because carriers of social disvalue and because they violate the basic principles of civil coexistence and harm the fundamental freedoms of citizens, innocent victims, and not only for distraction, negligence or serious violation of the road code, but also with the awareness that, when driving in a state of drunkenness or under the influence of drugs, they assume responsibility for the risk of causing accidents, because they certainly do not have the lucid control of driving. In this direction, the road code has undergone, over the years, a series of changes, precisely to strengthen the condemnation and repression of those who put themselves to drive having exceeded the levels of alcohol rates, in particular higher than 1.5 grams per litre, also providing for the withdrawal of the licence in case of a road accident. The replacement measure of public service work for driving in a state of psychophysical alteration has also been introduced, precisely in order to attribute the penalty to such reprehensible conduct a repairing and rehabilitation function of service, in favour of the local community of belonging damaged by such behavior. However, the innovations in road safety standards have not been enough to prevent a phenomenon that strikes us, hurts us and must call us to duty as legislators: I am referring to the massacres in our streets of young people and not just the massacres on Saturday evening. Road accidents are the first cause of death of children and far too many admissions are recorded in our hospitals due to ethyl coma and excesses related to the abuse of alcohol and drugs also by teenagers, barely 11 years old, overwhelmed by social habits of which too little is mentioned. Education, before being a driving education and road traffic regulations, must be civic education, self-respect and self-health, others and their physical integrity. Health education, as well as social education, could also be reintroduced into school programmes and accompanied by effective public information campaigns, so that there is a community that takes care of young people before they have to cry. For this reason, it was considered necessary to tighten up the existing rules: not only to tighten up in order to adequately repress such conduct in the most serious cases of injury or murder, but also to impose penalties that, from sanctions for violation of the road code to the violation of criminal rules, build a deterrent and progressive discipline that punishes in a gradual way, so as to discourage the recurrence of violations. This is the heart of the bill that we are about to vote on. In fact, the current prediction of street murder as manslaughter under Article 589, as amended in 2008, which provides for a sentence of three to ten years imprisonment, has in fact failed. The prediction failed because it did not stop, nor slowed down such cause of death and because the insurgent penalties hardly led the perpetrators to jail. In fact, all too often, in the judgment of balancing and prevalence between aggravating and mitigating circumstances, in fact the penalty, in concrete terms, does not appear appropriate with respect to the value of the loss of an innocent human life. For this reason, it was considered to tighten the forecast and, in particular, the minimum penalty and to introduce the prohibition of compensation for the equivalent of circumstances. Only the introduction of a new and autonomous case of road homicide, with a sentence of eight to twelve years for those who commit this crime, with compulsory arrest, and the provision of the withdrawal of the licence, for a significant period from fifteen to thirty years, can constitute, in this context, a very felt social cost, such as to induce a more responsible behaviour in view, in particular, of the loss of the possibility of returning the driving licence for such long periods. In this direction there is also the delegation to the Government for the reform of the road code, to the examination of the Commission transports, which will also have to reconsider those cases of serious violation of the rules that we have postponed and deleted here. This delegation, alongside simplification principles, promotes measures aimed at the development of alternative safe mobility and the implementation of rules for the security of vulnerable users. We have already said: it will not be enough to tighten the penalties in order to create a greater awareness of the disvalue and gravity of conducts that do not at all concern the private sphere of individuals, but of those who, due to serious negligence and non-compliance with the rules of the road code or by driving in a state of alteration from alcohol and drug abuse, pose a threat to the safety of other citizens, innocent victims. On the other hand, greater education in road safety will be needed, but it will also be important to newly conceive the spaces and urban planning of our cities, for cities where alternative mobility can find a fair recognition, where the signs are clear and readable, where the road and roads are safe because maintained, where pedestrian crossings are secured with appropriate signaling tools, cities where police controls and the presence of speed detection systems and state of alteration educate and discourage the recurrence of the violation. Intransigence and education to civil coexistence are necessary, based on social respect even before respect for obligations and prohibitions, respect for oneself and the lives of others, so that we can continue to walk our way consciously and responsibly. With this in mind, I announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour of the bill that introduces the crime of street murder. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u101	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u102	De Cristofaro (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I speak very quickly. In the Mixed Group, as you can imagine, there may be different positions. In this case, on behalf of the members of my party (Left Ecology and Freedom) and some other Senator of the Mixed Group, I am voting against the explanation of vote that has been made, i.e. a vote of abstention on this measure. Of course, we believe that the adoption of certain amendments has actually improved the text, from our point of view, as compared to how it came to this House. We have therefore strongly supported them and we hope that the text can be further improved in the transition to the House. However, on our part, it remains an element of fundamental disagreement which does not allow us to vote in favour, particularly with regard to a number of issues which have, moreover, sufficiently emerged in the course of the debate and which I shall therefore address very quickly. We have chosen to intervene by giving too much priority to the repressive aspect of prevention from our point of view. We think above all that it is a dangerous precedent to have called into question a principle from our sacrosanct and decisive point of view for the maintenance of the legal order of our country, that of the proportionality of penalties. In fact, we believe that, in the face of such high penalties for this kind of crime, which in any case is inscribed in the case of manslaughter, there may be a race upwards that frightens us. I would like to add one more thing. Of course, I know that this has happened because there is an open debate in the House and therefore I will not be particularly controversial about it. But I don't think it's a big sign that the outside is given the fact that I expunged from the text the whole part about the nautical murder. I understand that there is another kind of discussion and I realize that the work of the Chambers must be harmonised. But we are in June and therefore not having put in place a measure or at least not having given the sign of an intervention today by one of the two chambers on the nautical murder, at the beginning of the bathing season, from our point of view it was a mistake. [[Applause from Senator Bell.]] Mr President, let me conclude by saying that everyone in Italy has a car, the poor and the rich. High-edge motorboats, which often kill some poor Christ in the middle of the sea, have only a few. I leave that to the House. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and PD Groups and Senators Campanella and Bignami.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u105	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u106	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the unified text of the draft law no. 859, 1357, 1378, 1484 and 1553, in the amended text, with the following title: "Introduction of the crime of road murder and of the crime of personal road injuries as well as provisions for the coordination of legislative decree no. 274 of 28 August 2000. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u109	GIROTTO (M5S). Colleagues, if you have a moment of patience, I would like to explain to you the umpteenth lack of respect on the part of a public administration towards citizens, that is, their employers, because - let us remember - the citizens are the employers and salaries of all civil servants. In this case we are talking about Pederobba, a small municipality of 7,500 inhabitants of my Region, the Veneto, located near the Piave, the sacred river to the Homeland. This municipality is paying a heavy burn at the level of air quality and pollution, because there is in its territory a co-incinerator (a cement factory) authorized to burn 60,000 tons of petcoke, which is the worst part of the oil, and 60,000 tons of tires. Thus, a municipality of about 7,000 people disposes of two thirds of all the tyres burned in Italy. Let us remember, among other things, that co-incinerators are allowed to pollute almost ten times more than incinerators and frankly do not understand why. In addition, in the municipal territory there are seven quarries, one of which is used as a asbestos landfill and a waste dump and two new biomass cogeneration plants have been authorised, one with 490 kilowatts and one with 999 kilowatts, fed to not better specified vegetable oils, thus going to further increase the polluting emissions into the atmosphere. I would remind you that the Regional Agency for the Prevention and Protection of the Environment of Veneto (ARPAV) has for many years recorded levels of aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) well beyond the legal limits. Despite all this, there is a further attack on the quality of the air and therefore the health and life of the citizens of this municipality and those who live in the neighbouring basin, because of the risk of the opening of a new commercial center of 18,000 square meters, in an area of 68,000 square meters. We are awaiting the opinion of the Committee on the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), which should have arrived by last Saturday, but which has not yet arrived. The mall will be placed in an area that previously was agro-industrial, a fungus, which has already been reclaimed, although ended with several shadows relative to the destination of the excavation ground, which was removed to make the reclamation. If the center is realized it is expected an influx of about 1,000 cars per hour during the week and up to 2,000 cars per hour on weekends, with a further pollution. Added to this is the opening of a new clay quarry, despite the fact that the Veneto Region does not provide for the opening of new quarries, citing as an excuse a non-existent risk exondating the river Curogna with consequent necessity to build a lamination basin. It should be said that among the three sites identified for the basin, the private sector has proposed the site most profitable from the point of view of clay, but certainly the most harmful and impacting from the environmental point of view. This project is also subject to the scrutiny of the Regional EIA Commission, which expires in December. Now, on the basis of this, various groups of citizens, various associations and myself have made a number of comments. We have asked the two committees for a public debate, and we have not received a single answer. I would like to stress that. I think it is the minimum, that it is the duty of the institutions at least to give an answer and of course also to make a public comparison with the citizens. I therefore ask all the competent authorities to comply with these very simple rules of common sense. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u112	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak once again about the New Sinter, a company in Arzano, in the province of Naples. Already on December 3, 2014, the government was given the attention of the company's situation through a parliamentary question, which has not yet been answered. This company was put to the attention of the Ministry, in particular the competent office of the Ministry of Economic Development that deals with these disputes. Well, today a further meeting was planned for the Ministry; there were trade union representatives and workers: still nothing in fact. I would not have intervened at all if that nothing had been ordinary. In this case, no, it is not a serious fact, because in practice not only today there was a fairly important member of the Ministry - but so far there could be - but the problem is that those who replaced it were not aware of a number of fundamental passages. To the right question, of the workers, aimed at knowing if they had contacted "x" companies (by making the names of the companies) on the other side, therefore from the Government, the clouds: they absolutely did not know which companies were talking about, even if duly communicated to him. The companies that were to be interested in the New Sinter were, in fact, already reported; therefore the Ministry had to do its job, or at least that office should have contacted them and tried to verify the possibility of purchasing the New Sinter. We are actually talking about an Italian excellence; it produces products for cars that only that company can produce in that way. Therefore, it is an Italian company of excellence that must absolutely not disappear. I therefore call on the Senate to ensure that the Ministry finally sheds light on this situation and, finally, on Tuesday, when they meet again, to give a certain answer to these workers. A response that does not have to be: we have contacted them and are not interested in them; it is necessary to contact all the companies that have been reported, because I believe that, being suppliers, those companies will certainly be interested in having that product. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u115	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, I would like to remind you that today is Navy Day. I would like to remember the weapon and all our soldiers, but above all our two maroons, an open chapter 1,207 days ago; I hope it will close soon and that whoever can do something will do it. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Caleo and Alicata.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u116	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-463.ana.u117	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 11 June, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.39.
