ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be carried out 3-201922, on the request for recognition of refugee status advanced by 20 refugees received in the Municipality of Pettinengo, in the Province of Biella. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda, Senator Favero, on the basis of an affair involving 20 Malian citizens seeking international protection, welcomed in a temporary centre set up in the City of Pettinengo in the Province of Biella, calls for the adoption of initiatives aimed at increasing the number of territorial commissions for the recognition of international protection and to ensure uniformity of judgment by the latter. I would point out that the requests for recognition of international protection submitted by those citizens of Mali have been examined for territorial competence by the Turin Commission, which has heard all 20 applicants. Only for one of them was the procedure concluded with the recognition of subsidiary protection, while the other 19 applicants were notified of the decision rejecting the application. Subsequently, of these 19 Malian citizens: one has obtained the recognition of subsidiary protection by judicial means; two have obtained, again by judicial means, the recognition of humanitarian protection; the remaining 16 have spontaneously moved away from the reception center where they were hosted or have left it forcefully, in compliance with the decrees of rejection of the renewal of the residence permit issued by the quaestor of Biella after the rejection of the appeal lodged by foreigners to the tribunal of Turin. These are the facts, from which it emerges that all administrative procedures have been carried out in compliance with the law and that Malian citizens have been able to exercise in full the rights granted to them by the legal order as asylum seekers. I would like to turn to the question raised by the honourable Member of the European Parliament concerning the criteria of judgment used by the territorial committees. In the examination of the requests for international protection, these bodies must comply with the provisions of Article 3 of Legislative Decree No 251 of 2007 and take into account, therefore, the facts concerning the country of origin, the declarations and documentation submitted by the applicant, the individual situation and personal circumstances, the activities carried out by the applicant as well as the persecutions, serious damage or threats already suffered and the credibility, consistency, likelihood and reliability of the facts reported by the applicant. These are complex assessments that require high professionalism and impartiality, together with geopolitical knowledge of the countries of origin of asylum seekers. For this reason, it has been foreseen that the members of the territorial commissions will carry out an initial compulsory training course and subsequent refresher courses organised by the National Commission for the Right of Asylum. As regards the availability and updating of information on the countries of origin, reference is made to the IOC unit of the National Commission, which works in close cooperation with the European Asylum Support Office (EASO). In the present case, it should be pointed out that the granting of refugee status to Malian citizens is closely linked to the internal affairs of that State, theatre in recent years of constantly changing and changing scenarios. In particular, I would like to remind you that Mali, during 2012, suffered from a major conflict, so much so that the National Commission for the Right of Asylum issued, at first, a directive to all territorial commissions, suggesting the need to grant foreigners from that land at least subsidiary protection. Subsequently, following a partial mitigation of the conflict, the Commission itself suggested that the granting of humanitarian protection should be possible. Even more recently, on the basis of reports confirmed by the UNHCR, it has been established that the situation in the South of Mali has normalized, while in the North of the country a situation of uncertainty and insecurity continues to persist. Therefore, only in this latter area of origin for asylum seekers can the indications previously provided by the National Commission be used to date. As far as I have just explained and as a result of the information I have received from the Turin Committee, I inform you that, for most of the Malian citizens who are the subject of the question, the rejection of the application is due to the non-credibility or non-verifiability of their story and to the origin of the same from those areas of Mali where there is no more violence or generalized clashes. With regard to the strengthening of the network of territorial committees, I would like to point out that, precisely as Mr Favero wanted, we have doubled the territorial committees and their sections, bringing the total number from 20 to 40. This measure, which dates back to November 2014, has recently been implemented because of the technical time needed for the start of the new commissions and sections and the formation of the relevant components. However, it has already produced the first appreciable results. From the beginning of the year to the date of September 5, the requests defined by the territorial commissions were 36,712, with an increase of almost 66 percent compared to the same period of 2014. We await even more significant results in the following, given that the committees are now working at full speed. These results are also the result of the simplification of procedures, which we have achieved through the introduction of one-to-one talks instead of collegial talks. Further benefits to the system may derive from the re-introduction of both the time limit for the decision of the suspension and the time limit for the definition of the judicial remedy, moreover re-introduction provided for by a legislative decree approved in the second instance by the Council of Ministers and now being published in the Official Journal, in implementation of Directives Nos 32 and 33 of 2013.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u7	FAVERO (PD). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his reply, which I am satisfied with, partly because he shows the effort he has made for a situation which is very little to describe as an emergency. What is happening in many parts of our world is a biblical exodus to the West and its richest part, namely the North, from Africa and, in this case, from Mali. The territory of Mali has been suffering for years for the civil and internal wars that have followed, because of which Farnesina herself does not recommend to go, despite the peace agreements concluded thanks also to the help of Algeria and the organizations that work in this sense because this nation is not frequentable. In August the killing of several soldiers as well as the explosion of a bomb in a hotel frequented also by Europeans and, in general, by Westerners. Therefore, I think that the children of those places are attracted to Europe, being a territory that has been living in peace for seventy years now, where you can work, have a family and hope for the future. They are twenty-five or thirty-year-olds who are expelled from a situation not only of uncertainty but of blatant tragedy. Moreover, natural disasters, such as floods, or other tragic events, are taking place in those territories. So, I think that you have invested a lot as a community: you invest economically, and we hear every day TV shows and newspapers talking about the 35 euros a day for migrants. But this is only part of the matter. I would point out that, in the territory of Pettinengo, a laughing commune of the Biella region of 1,200 souls, these young people, upon their arrival, were looked at with a little 'afraid because strangers and in those areas were not very accustomed. Yet, they have become so integrated that they have begun to attend the community and to work in small maintenance activities, making what was already a custom in Pettinengo, that is, to make them work. So much so that some of the remaining ones, those five you mentioned, Mr Undersecretary, work in the field of cleanliness, the care of the green; one of them is beekeeper, two went to Paris looking for luck with their relatives, and others who came from a similar situation have - let's face it - often returned to an alleged illegality, because nothing is known about it anymore. Someone has stayed in touch and said that they are working on the collection of agricultural products, but this feeds that black market that we absolutely want to eradicate. This is why the idea to expel, or not to welcome, young people - as in the specific case, but can also be women or children - who come from countries in a state of war - in this case not declared, but still underground and always ready to flare up - I think it must be rethought or in any case there should be a greater sharing of such situations. Finally, but not least, I very much welcome all the great progress made and the simplification of the process. I believe, however, that having more and more massive and important arrivals at the door, the effort is to deburr and simplify more, giving a rapid response - in this case - to asylum seekers, is to be speeded up, just so that we do not find ourselves in situations of illegality.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u8	Following is the question 3-01392, on the reception system of migrants in Sicily, especially in the Province of Trapani. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u9	Mr President, with the question on the agenda, Senator Santangelo, together with other senators, asks the Minister of the Interior a series of questions concerning the reception of migrants in that Province, with reference also to the temporary centre of Partanna. As is well known, Trapani is among the Provinces most exposed to the phenomenon of migratory flows that, through the Mediterranean, are affecting the national territory. The local prefecture has been committed, for a long time and with continuity, to providing adequate accommodation and assistance to foreigners arriving in the Province, on the basis of distribution plans issued by the competent bodies of the central administration of the interior. Currently, migrants are distributed in 31 extraordinary reception centres, almost all of them under 100 seats, located in 12 municipalities and managed by 25 different economic operators. Their overall capacity is equal to 2,314 places, constantly occupied. The widespread distribution of the reception is the result of a conscious choice of the prefect: a choice dictated by the need to counter any monopolistic situations and reduce - by this way - the risk, feared by Senator Santangelo himself, of feeding an illegal business of the reception. It is, however, also a choice of precise social value because, avoiding the concentration of migrants in the city, which already hosts the CIE of Milo, or in other specific areas of the provincial territory, it was evidently intended to mitigate the impact of the migratory phenomenon on the Trapani reality and, on the other hand, to promote the integration path of foreigners who, having its title, will remain in Italy. Constant checks are carried out on all reception facilities, also using the offices of the provincial health company, which have shown a progressive improvement in the overall quality of the services provided by the providers. Regarding the reception center Partanna - IPAB Boccone del Povero - Riggirello - precise that the same has been subjected to preventive seizure by the Antisophistication and Health Unit of the Carabinieri of Palermo, at the proxy of the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Sciacca, for established sanitary deficiencies. As a result of this measure, the structure has been closed and the 58 guests present have been transferred, without difficulty, to the neighboring centers. Its re-use for the same purpose is not foreseen at the moment. In this regard, the prefecture reported that, contrary to what was feared in the question, there was no contagion concern in the population for Ebola virus disease, but rather regret for the loss of some jobs. For completeness, I inform that, with decree of preemptive seizure of the 17th July issued by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Sciacca, were placed under seizure by the Anti-Sophistication and Health of the Carabinieri of Palermo also three SPRAR centers located in the Municipalities of Partanna and Castelvetrano and managed by the same cooperative "Solidarity" that managed the reception center IPAB of Partanna, of which I have already spoken. The migrants received there were all transferred to other SPRAR centres identified by the central service. Similarly, the prefecture, on the basis of the findings of the audit reports carried out by the Carabinieri of the NAS, as well as the internal inspection visits carried out, provided for the temporary closure of another extraordinary center (Santa Caterina di Campobello Convent of Mazara), managed by the same cooperative. The 102 migrants received were redistributed to the Province's CAS. The closure measures were all taken to ensure that hygiene and health irregularities were detected. On a more general level, I note that the question contains some brief references to the general nature of the controls on the management of reception centres and the inadequacy of the services provided to them. From this point of view I intend to reaffirm the commitment with which the Ministry of the Interior follows this sector. First of all, it should be pointed out that the management of government reception centres takes place on the basis of general specifications governing the provision of the relevant services according to quality parameters and costs absolutely in line with European standards. I remember, moreover, that the Sicilian Region, with decree of the council of health of 20 April last, has established the minimum requirements to which the reception centers must comply, requirements to which the managers are providing to adapt. The prefectures carry out extensive monitoring and control activities on the services provided in the centres. In the event of a failure to act, they shall, in accordance with the conditions laid down above, impose a penalty of 3% of the monthly fee, and shall require compensation for the greatest damage, with the possibility, in the event of serious failure, of terminating the contract. I would like to point out that the Ministry of the Interior, with a general directive issued last February, has asked all prefects to step up controls on the complex accounting and financial system related to the centres, also verifying that the quality of the services provided is consistent with those agreed in the Convention. The determination with which the Government pursues higher levels of reception is evidence of the approval at the beginning of this year of a regulation, the decree of the President of the Republic n. 21 of 2015. For what concerns here, the innovative profile of the measure lies above all in the affirmation of the principle of uniformity of the organizational rules in the centres on the national territory. And it is clear that all this can benefit the certainty of migrants' rights and strengthen their position vis-à-vis the managing bodies. Moreover, those aspects that most affect the personal sphere and the living conditions, ranging from health protection to the maintenance of the unity of the family unit, are not neglected. I would also like to point out that, in the management of government centres, the State tends to operate with the collaboration of all those bodies that, through their support activities and their specific experience in the field, can guarantee increasingly appropriate forms and levels of proximity to the foreigner. It is in this direction that the Praesidium project, launched in 2006 and recognised as a best practice at European level, is located. The project, co-financed by the European External Borders Fund, involved the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (CNUR), the International Organization of Migration, the Italian Red Cross and Save the Children in the assistance and support of migrants from landing places to reception in centres. Initially applied to Lampedusa, the project has been progressively extended to other territorial realities, also monitoring the quality of the services rendered within the reception centers. As of 2013, in the framework of Praesidium, mixed composition commissions were set up (representatives of prefecture and police station and of each partner organisation) with the task of verifying, at each governmental centre, compliance with the agreements stipulated. In 2014 the methodological lines on the operation of the commissions were also released and two rounds of inspections were planned, even monitoring twice a year the government centers that were operational during that period. From the second half of 2014 and until 30 June, the Praesidium project has been partially funded with the resources of the European Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund. This has allowed not only to carry out new monitoring cycles in government centres, but also to extend visits to temporary reception centres which, in the meantime, due to the incessant migratory flow, have been activated by prefectures. Overall, 34 visits were made in 2014 and 45 this year. Also the Department of Civil Liberties and Immigration carried out, with its own personnel, targeted surveys at the temporary centres of numerous Regions (Tuscany, Lazio, Campania, Puglia, Friuli). In 2015, there were 18 inspection visits. I would like to make it clear that this was not a formal or merely a paper check. On the contrary, there have been concrete sanctions, which have led on several occasions to the closure of structures activated on a temporary basis or to the application of penalties, where the prefects have found irregularities or shortcomings of various kinds. I also inform you that the Praesidium project, although formally discontinued, has certainly not been abandoned. The related activities are continuing in another form with the collaboration of the UNHCR and the International Organisation of Migration, on the basis of two separate conventions. This is the general picture, which I believe shows how the action carried out by the Ministry of the Interior in the field of the reception of migrants - in agreement with all the administrations involved - is essentially in line with European standards and international obligations, even in the awareness that, in the management of a phenomenon so complex and complex, disservices and anomalies can occur, all the more in the current phase characterized by imposing migratory flows and the consequent saturation of reception centers. We will therefore continue, in this logic, to monitor with the most rigorous attention in order to detect and possibly hit the smallest irregularities that might arise.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u12	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary for his reply, but I am not satisfied with it, and I shall now try to explain my reasons quickly. Mr Undersecretary, I would like to give you a figure, which is absolutely not in the European average, concerning the number of immigrants and political asylum seekers present in the Province of Trapani: currently there are 44,43 migrants per 10,000 inhabitants in this Province. We are, therefore, talking about an absolutely disproportionate number compared to all other territories. There are, however, no actual data from the point of view of the work done, with so much common sense and so much attention on the part of the prefect of Trapani - it is undoubtedly and undisputed - and the will not to create large centres, but centres spread on the territory, that could - deliberately use the verb to conditional - favour the inclusion of migrants who will decide to remain in that reality. Mr. Undersecretary, you mentioned 38 structures, but I've got a few more. Personally, through the inspection visits, I visited 23 of them and, therefore, I speak with knowledge of the cause of this phenomenon on that territory. I can tell you, therefore, that there have been guests of some facilities for over three years. Compared to average parking times or for obtaining possible political asylum, we are, again, well beyond the average. To sell for a system of excellence what is not such a thing does not seem appropriate to me. The same applies to the other issues mentioned: you spoke of 2,314 guests, but in this figure you understood only those who are under the dependency and responsibility of the prefecture and did not refer to the SPRAR, who do not depend on the prefecture, but directly on the Ministry of the Interior. I can tell you that this figure, to date, is around 3,200 units, always in the same territory. If you do not start to make clarity and avoid playing games, that whoever is on the territory can still discover, you will not really get the excellence that we all want there. I would also like to thank the Secretary-General for his reply and, as far as this part is concerned, I am pleased. I would point out, however, that the question was submitted on 11 November 2014 and, considering the possibility of incorrect information being conveyed to the population, which can create an unjustified health alert, I believe that the timing with which the response took place is absolutely late. The phenomenon in question certainly has characteristics of exceptionality. Among the questions I had asked there is also a simple one: is there a numerical limit, related to the population, as regards immigrants who can be accommodated in a territory or is it expected, instead, an infinite capacity? What do you want to make of that territory, where there are sites like those of Segesta, Selinunte and many other architectural and naturalistic beauties? [[Recalls of the President]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Do we want to make this territory a territory of excellence from the point of view of hospitality? It may be fine, but from a political point of view, I would like the government to clarify.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u13	The following is the question 3-01515, about the death by meningitis of a cultural mediator at the CARA of Isola Capo Rizzuto, in the Province of Crotone. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bodies of the Interior Administration have followed very closely the events following the death of the cultural mediator who, as an employee of a cooperative affiliated with the Ministry of the Interior, worked on behalf of the immigration office of the Crotone police station, attending for this reason both the headquarters of the police station itself and the seconded office located inside the first reception centre for asylum seekers in Isola di Capo Rizzuto. So much so, I would say that, on the morning of 27 November, Moroccan citizen Mohamed Ebno Errida was hospitalized for acclaimed bacterial meningitis in the resuscitation room of the local civil hospital, where he died the following day. On the same day of the hospitalization a meeting was held at the prefecture of Crotone, with the participation of those responsible for the structures of the provincial health company of Crotone directly concerned, the health director of the hospitality center of Isola di Capo Rizzuto, the president of the territorial commission for international protection, the manager of the provincial health office of the police station and the top of the other police forces, as well as the commander of the contingent of soldiers employed in the supervisory services at the center. The main purpose of the meeting was to identify the categories of people at risk of contagion to be subject to pharmacological prophylaxis, avoiding an uncritical and generalised antibiotic administration, expected that the transmission of the infection, as stated by the health professionals present at the meeting, can take place only by direct and prolonged contact. On the basis of the indications given by the above-mentioned health care professionals, it was decided to undergo prophylaxis, initiated on the same day by the administration of antibiotics, those who had come into direct contact with the sick within 10 days prior to his hospitalisation. Overall, the provincial health office of the State Police has distributed to 101 people the medication indicated for prophylaxis to be adopted. Specifically, the treatment covered 79 members of the State Police, 7 employees of the Civil Administration of the Interior, 5 civilians, 10 military of the Army. To the prefecture was delivered an additional quantity useful to subject to prophylaxis another 10 people. It was also prepared and carried out on the afternoon of the same day the disinfection of all the premises frequented by the sick in the police station, in the territorial commission for international protection and in the reception centre. Since the cultural mediator also taught the Arabic language to adults at a primary school in the capital, it was decided to disinfect the premises concerned by the lessons as well as the prophylaxis of persons who came into contact with the sick. I would also like to inform you that, in the immediacy of the event, the provincial health company has activated a task force to monitor the evolution of the situation. It issued, below, a press release in which it highlighted the sporadic nature of the event, which is part of the ordinary case study of hospitality, and excluded the traceability of the contagion to the guests of the reception center, where - moreover - cases of meningitis have never been reported. It is a fact, however, that, in the environments frequented by the sick, no further case of meningitis occurred during the incubation times of the pathology since the date of the death of Mr. Ebno Errida. As regards the protection of the health of police workers who come into contact with migrants, the central health management of the Department of Public Security confirmed that the course of action followed in the event has met in a scrupulous way the health protocols provided for in these circumstances (communication to operators exposed to risk, communication at institutional levels, epidemiological investigation, prophylaxis). Finally, as regards the clarifications requested by the Regional Authority for Children and Adolescence regarding the health services performed against pregnant women and minors hosted in the reception centre, I inform you that, according to the agreement stipulated for the management of the centre, the health care obligations charged to the care agency are divided into an initial medical screening at the time of entry of the foreigner into the facility and in a first medical emergency during the stay that guarantees the assistance until possible recourse to the health facilities included in the National Health Service, with which the garrison maintains the relations. Moreover, through Crotone's prefecture, a dedicated procedure has been activated which allows the host migrants of the centre to obtain, already at the time of the request for international protection, the tax code leading to the subsequent registration of the National Health Service, the choice of the doctor or pediatrician, as well as the code of exemption from sharing in health costs. By virtue of this, the guests themselves are entitled to benefit from the generality of the benefits provided by the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u17	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, I would like to thank you for coming to answer this question several months ago, although I would have preferred to have someone here reporting the voice of the Ministry of Health, because the issue raised by the Child Care Supervisor was more of a health problem. To the Guarantor was replied, from the provincial health company, that, due to privacy problems, information was not given. In the event that we talk about the death of a cultural mediator, who - as far as I have been told - had come into constant and constant contact with the guests of CARA, the need to know what is the prophylaxis used to prevent any infection I believe cannot be bypassed by the fact that there have been no other infections and other sick people. It should be a well-established practice to subject people to fixed procedures. Instead, you moved only to the police officers who came into contact with that mediator, and rightly the workplaces were exterminated, but the same attention was not paid to the guests of the CARA. It is clear, then, that when it comes to minors and pregnant women, there should be a greater eye than adult people, and especially meningitis. The fact that in the answer to my question was put, as a first point, respect for privacy legislation - in my opinion - is an alibi not to say that, in fact, a precise prophylaxis is not followed. With all the people who, hypothetically, could bring disease, not have safe procedures, so as not to endanger the lives of other guests, it is - in my opinion - a very serious fact. I would like to thank the Undersecretary for answering my question, but I am sorry that no one from the Ministry of Health has come to tell us something more.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u18	Following is the question 3-01669, on the shipwreck of 300 migrants from Libya off Lampedusa. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators Cantini, together with other Senators, draws the Government's attention to the shipwreck that took place in the waters of the Mediterranean in the night between 8 and 9 February 2015, which would have caused the death of more than 300 migrants, asking for the necessary investigations to be carried out to assess the arsonous nature of the event. Indeed, last February 8th the Coast Guard patrol boats intercepted, 113 miles south of Lampedusa, a boat with 105 migrants on board, all male, of which 29 died. Despite the prohibitive weather conditions, the people on board the boat were recovered and transported to the port of Lampedusa, where they arrived in the afternoon of the following 9 February. After the first relief, 75 of the 76 survivors were taken to the first aid and hospitality center of the island; one was transferred to the hospital in Trapani. All persons, including those deceased, were found to be of sub-Saharan origin (Costa d'Ivoire, Gambia, Guinea, Mali, Niger, Senegal). Two unaccompanied minors were present. Two days later, nine more survivors arrived in Lampedusa aboard a merchant ship. During the identification operations, some migrants declared that the criminal association that had organized their trip would have at the top a citizen of about fifty years, presumably of Mali, and would have logistical bases in Libya managed by subjects, armed and violent, also of sub-Saharan origin. Migrants would pay between 600 and 1,400 euros, to be brought to the hinterland of Tripoli, Libya, where they would be put together with other people - in total over 400 - watched on sight by armed men and forced to work in the camps. After being forced into trucks, they would reach a beach near Tripoli, then be divided into four groups and put on board as many dinghys. On each of the dinghies they would embark from one to three subjects with suits from divers, probably of Libyan nationality, that they would have led the boats up to about 150-200 meters from the African coast, and then return to swimming towards the same coast after having explained which route to keep to reach Italy. During the voyage at sea, a call for help would be launched via a satellite phone (not recovered). The testimonial reconstruction revealed that the rescuers would be able to identify and recover 105 migrants travelling on the first dinghy (29 of whom died), 7 survivors left with the second dinghy (originally composed of 106 migrants) and 2 survivors left with the fourth dinghy (originally composed of 105 migrants). On the other hand, no trace of the third dinghy was found, leaving with 105 travellers. In essence, the statements of migrants gave us a very heavy budget, if confirmed by the investigations: against the 421 people left, the survivors would be 85, the dead 29 and the missing 307. The investigations undertaken to ascertain the real dynamics of the facts and their responsibilities are carried out by the State Police under the coordination of the Palermo Anti-Mafia District Directorate and are still ongoing. I think it is useful to inform that they are part of a wider investigation of transnational criminal organisations responsible for the smuggling of migrants, carried out by special pools, active since the summer of 2012, consisting of investigators of the Central Operations Service of the State Police and the mobile teams of Agrigento, Palermo, Catania, Siracusa and Ragusa, in constant connection with the competent district prosecutors of Catania and Palermo. The action to combat the phenomenon is directed along two guidelines: on the one hand, there is a constant activity aimed at identifying the so-called scafists, which has led to the arrest of more than 1,000 (almost 500 in the first months of this year); on the other hand, investigations continue to rebuild the criminal dynamics and the organizational structure of transnational malavitous associations. In this context, I would point out that 121 operations have been carried out since 2014, some of which have been concluded against criminal networks operating not only in Italy, but also in African and European countries. Among the operations, I signal for the importance that last 20 April has allowed to execute a measure of arrest of suspect of crime issued by the Palermo judicial authority towards 24 subjects (of which 10 resisted irreperibile) responsible for association for criminals aimed at aiding the entry and the permanence of illegals, with the aggression of transnationality. Among the suspects is also the Ethiopian citizen Ermias Ghermay, fugitive since July 2014, as the recipient of an international arrest warrant issued following the shipwreck that on 3 October 2013 caused the death of 366 people in the waters facing Lampedusa. I would also like to point out the operation of 27 August, which allowed the arrest of suspects of crime for murder and aiding illegal immigration 10 non-EU citizens (7 Moroccans, 2 Syrians and 1 Libyan), as recognized hullists of a boat intercepted in the waters of the Mediterranean with a large number of migrants and 52 corpses on board. I would like to say that the action to combat scafists and criminal organisations is also based on intensive investigative intelligence activities in collaboration with the police forces of Member States and third countries, with the involvement of Europol to collect all the information necessary to intercept the criminal chains having logistical and contact bases in the countries of origin of the flows and in the same national territory. We rely heavily on the effectiveness of investigative and judicial police action, but we are obviously aware that in this historical phase the eradication of the scourge of human trafficking from the Mediterranean is mainly through the success of the European operation that is currently in place and has been promoted by a decree-law converted by this same House. The European naval mission has Italian leadership and operating command in Rome and its first phase, with mainly information and intelligence purposes, began last July following the green light given by the European Union at the session of the Foreign Affairs Council last 22 June. At the informal meeting of the Union's Foreign Ministers in Luxembourg on 4 September, it was agreed that by the end of this month, the need to move to phase two, more properly operational, where the ship structures of EuNavFor (this is the name given to the operation) will be authorised for the activities of boarding and neutralization of boats in international waters and for the arrest of boatmen. This will require a new formal decision by the Union, which the Italian Government is promoting and supporting with conviction.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u22	CANTINI (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his reply, especially because - and I am particularly pleased about this - it has not been confined to the event, which is extremely serious, despite the fact that many months have passed and, unfortunately, many other events have taken place both in the vicinity of our coasts and in waters close to other European countries. I thank him because the information he has given us comforts us with regard to such a serious and important problem that we do not want to get used to: we do not want these large numbers to remain numbers, but we want on every occasion and in every way to remember that 300 people who lose their lives are war action numbers and are never and never to be considered as accidents. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight two points. It is precisely today that we have two agency launches, which I have been able to read pending the opening of this sitting, which are comforting us with regard to such a serious problem. The first concerns a part of the problem that is not addressed in my question, namely the request for asylum and the division of asylum seekers among EU countries. We have heard that in Strasbourg the resolution has passed on the availability of asylum applications divided between countries for the 40,000 applicants, but also for the 120,000 applicants, which is the request that we have made as Italy, which will concern asylum seekers from Italy, Greece and Hungary. The other news that I would like to emphasize in its importance is that slowly we begin to have some success in the action of contact with the Libyan Government, although knowing that Libya does not have a government representative of the whole territory. The action in place has in fact led today to the declaration, reported in a very recent agency, according to which Libya is ready to cooperate with the European countries, in particular with Italy, in order to destroy the boats of the scafisti. Of course, there are conditions - on which the Government will reason in the coming days - that must be taken seriously, in my opinion, since the request is to consider anyway the necessity to help from an economic point of view the countries of sub-Saharan Africa (as we have seen, the powder keg that is deflating and that is not so on the agenda for other countries). This willingness - in my opinion - highlights how important it is in this moment that the Government of our country works on both fronts: on the one hand the one aimed at guaranteeing for a better reception - we have heard it also on the occasion of other questions - more punctual, faster in the recognition of people, in order to guarantee the return, but also, and above all, an effective integration of the people who have the possibility to remain in Italy or in other European countries; on the other hand, however, we must really fight the human trafficking, which is the actual issue that I have addressed in the question, which leads to these events so dramatic that, despite the action we have taken as a Europe, they are unfortunately still too heavy.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u23	The following is the question 3-01661 on the management of immigration. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u24	Mr President, Senator Orrù, together with other senators, in drawing the attention of the Government to the shipwreck that took place in the waters of the Mediterranean in the night between 8 and 9 February 2015, which would have caused the death of more than 300 migrants, poses a number of important questions related to the migration policies of Italy and the European Union. On the dynamics and consequences of the shipwreck I fully recall what I said earlier in reply to Senator Cantini's question. I would therefore like to respond to the other questions. With regard to the measures that are intended to be taken to support the Municipalities burdened by migratory pressure, I would remind you that last year Parliament approved, for the financial year 2014, the relaxation of the Internal Stability Pact in favour of some Sicilian Municipalities more committed to this front. The Government is considering the repositioning of similar measures in the same or other form, obviously in compliance with budgetary constraints. In this context, the possibility of introducing incentives for municipalities making themselves available for reception is also being studied together with the representative bodies of the local authorities. I would also like to add that, from an administrative point of view, something has already been done, because within the SPRAR system, which, contrary to what we can think of, is not managed by the Ministry of the Interior, because these are projects developed and recognized within ANCI, the reception is realized by the territorialities, with a sharing by the municipalities that up to now was 20% compared to the disbursements of the Ministry of the Interior. Since we have not yet managed to create an opt-in, we have reduced this quota to 5%, so basically SPRAR has at this time a cost very close to zero for the territorialities that make reception. The other two questions contained in the question concern the major issues of national and European migration policies, with particular reference to greater involvement of the European Union in the relief and reception activities of asylum seekers and closer cooperation with the countries of origin and transit of the phenomenon under consideration. The structural nature of the phenomenon of foreigners fleeing from the poorest and most critical areas of Africa and Asia towards Europe is the figure from which it is necessary to start to lay the foundations for a serious analysis of the problems. And the latter cannot evade a real confrontation with the major crises that are affecting the African continent and the Middle East, from which come the most dangerous threats to the stability and security of our societies. I am referring, first of all, to the situation of permanent instability in which Libya is still present today (I also hope that the anticipated news is a source of some result in an attempt to unify the country), which at the state is still the crossroads of migratory flows and with which the need for political dialogue is strongly felt, with a view that is also of preventing the risk of terrorist infiltrations. Scenarios of this kind, characterised by the urgency, magnitude and dramatic nature of the problems, require a firm assumption of responsibility on the part of the Union, which is based on at least three guidelines. First of all, the Community institutions must draw up a broad strategy that can act primarily on the causes of the phenomenon. It is clear that a task of this magnitude and complexity cannot be left to national policies. At the same time, Europe must put in place action plans in which it is the directing cabin of human, instrumental and financial resources necessary to govern the phenomenon, also intervening directly in this process through its own agencies. Finally, it is necessary for the Union to think with one head to implement common integration policies, so that the principles of freedom are not the exclusive prerogative of the citizens of the Union, but can enjoy all those who decide to live and build their future legitimately in the European space. The positions that this Government is pursuing are fully consistent with the vision that I have just expressed. We have always represented the need for a greater presence of Europe. More Europe in African and Middle Eastern chessboards, to help bring an end to the interethnic conflicts in place, to support countries threatened by Islamic terrorism, but also to develop readmission agreements, mobility partnerships, regional protection programmes and regional processes, indispensable tools to bring Europe's action directly to the areas of origin of the migration phenomenon. More Europe also in the Mediterranean, so that it takes responsibility for the surveillance of the EU's maritime borders and the fight against human traffickers. More Europe, finally, in the reception of migrants and in the procedures of recognition of international protection, in order to share a burden that currently, due to the iniquity of the principle of the "first entry State" (Leggasi Dublin), weighs on the European coastal countries, and in particular on Italy. On the basis of this approach, during the Italian Presidency of the Union, and even after that, we undertook to indicate innovative solutions in Brussels that could overcome some unsustainable system rigidities. The content of the European Agenda on Migration presented by the European Commission in recent months, despite their timidity, all go in the direction, we hope, of strengthening the solidarity instruments. The principle of relocation, although affirmed temporarily and only for a quota of migrants, opens a significant breach in the so-called Dublin Wall, postulating a fairer distribution of applicants for international protection. It is the right idea, for which we have always fought and which corresponds to the reality of the facts: those fleeing from wars and persecutions do not choose Italy as Italy, but choose it as part of the largest area of democracy in the world. We cannot think of being penalised solely because of our geographical position and proximity to conflict areas. At first, we came up against the backwardness of most Member States. Now, at last, the front of the countries that have understood the need to set new foundations, more solidarity and therefore more adherent to European values, the reception policies of asylum seekers is much wider. It is a fact, however, that the positions supported by the Italian Government on immigration are now taken over by the European Commission and by a significant and authoritative representation of the countries of the European Union. These are the issues on which we are focusing our action at international level and which we will continue to support in order to ensure that the Commission's efforts are not thwarted by the trend, which has never been overcome within the Union, of turning back on selfish positions and identifying solutions to problems with regard mainly to national benefits. In addition, Italy is committed alongside the European Union and the UN in its intense diplomatic work aimed at stabilising the major crises that are affecting the African continent and the Middle East, in the knowledge that they can lead to the most dangerous threats to the stability and security of our society. In this matter, of course, everything becomes obsolete within a few hours, so it is pointless for me to remind you that on the basis of the European agenda the old Juncker plan was updated with the deposit this morning of the new plan which will be discussed on Monday 14 September in the JHA.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u27	ORRU' (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Under-Secretary of State for his broad answer to my question for which I am satisfied. The issue of immigration and landings is a very topical one and unfortunately we also see it from the circumstances of the last few days. As the events show, this phenomenon has taken on incalculable proportions, but I must say that in the European semester, and especially in the last period, we have seen a behavior of our nation, of Italy, which has aimed particularly at raising awareness throughout Europe and I think that Germany's attitude in recent days is an example. The applause that has welcomed migrants in Germany should be an example of an understanding that the European Union must do something together, as you said, following and completing a programme that is shared. I would like to mention yesterday's statements by President Junker, who gave priority to the redistribution of the 160,000 refugees, the strengthening of Frontex and thus, essentially, the strengthening of European policy. As for the more precise questions I have asked regarding the local authorities, I come from Sicily, a region that immediately welcomes migrants and that therefore, until redistribution takes place, hosts a very large number of migrants and always lends itself very well, I must say, to such reception. I also appreciated the distinction made by the centres, Mr Undersecretary, because, many times, the SPRARs and the allocation of powers are confused. I come from the Province of Trapani where the prefect has been able to make the distribution of the reception responsibly, legally and in a precise and punctual manner. With regard to local authorities, I welcome the relaxation of the Stability Pact - of which I already knew - which I hope will take place again this year, to a slightly wider extent. In fact, the problem concerns unaccompanied minors, which - as we understand - local authorities are dealing with immediately, with the collaboration of associations. We hope that all this will be repeated again this year and that there will be greater involvement and help. I am therefore pleased with the answer - I repeat - and thank you, Mr Sfafe Secretary.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u28	Question 3-01692 follows, on the minimum number of faithful to obtain the approval of ministers of worship. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question on the agenda, Senator Malan asks for clarification on the application of Law No 1159 of 1929, with particular reference to the institute of approval by the Ministry of the Interior of the appointment of ministers of cults other than the Catholic religion. It must be noted in advance that the constant jurisprudence, both of the Constitutional Court and of the administrative judge, has reiterated that the governmental approval of the appointment of non-Catholic ministers of worship does not conflict with the rights guaranteed by the fundamental Charter, nor does it bring a vulnus to the full exercise of religious freedom. Indeed, in the current system, on the one hand is religious freedom - guaranteed directly by the Constitution - which leaves to the various confessional realities the widest freedom and internal autonomy with regard to the appointment and the cult activities of their respective ministers, while on a different level is put the governmental approval of the ministers of worship, which does not affect pastoral activity or the faculties of worship, but has the sole purpose of allowing certain acts of the ministers themselves (typically marriages) to have effects also for the general legal order of the State. Precisely for these purposes, it is required that the confession has an appreciable numerical consistency, such as to justify concretely the need or utility for the order to confer on the minister of worship the publicistic power to put in place acts having civil effects. On the point it should be specified that the orientation just outlined is also the result of several opinions given by the Council of State to the administration of the interior regarding the verifications to be carried out when granting the approval about the existence of certain subjective and objective elements in relation to the applicant and his confession of belonging. These elements consist in the presence of a place of worship in the City of residence of the minister, in the numerical consistency of the community of faithful, in the Italian citizenship of the minister himself and in his reliability, seriousness and morality. As specified by the above-mentioned body in its opinion No 2758 of September 2009, for the purpose of government approval in an objective way, the existence of a community of faithful, qualitatively and quantitatively consistent in which to exercise pastoral functions, is necessary. This aspect was further clarified by the Council of State with a subsequent opinion of 11 January 2012, requested by the administration of the interior precisely in order to avoid an excessive exercise of its discretion in the process of approving the appointment as minister of worship and therefore to anchor administrative action to more objective and predetermined parameters. In this regard, the Council of State dwells precisely on the peculiar aspect of the numerical consistency of religious confession, stating the need to identify a basic form of faithful above which may be justified the presence of a minister of worship with permission for the celebration of marriage with civil effects in the order of the State. In this sense, the consultative body has also clarified how at local level the group of faithful of the particular cult for which approval of the appointment of a minister is required should aim at the orientation value of 500 people, distributed across the various age groups. This approach has recently been reaffirmed and clarified in the courts. I refer, in particular, to the judgment n. 2197 of 2015 of the TAR Lazio, which also addressed the question of the alleged limitation of freedom of religion that would result from the lack of government approval of the minister of worship. In this respect the TAR seems to clear the field from all ambiguity. For the administrative judge, in fact, the minister of worship is appointed by the individual Church or religious confession according to its own internal rules and can exercise all the activities inherent in the exercise of freedom of religion and worship, as provided for in Article 19 of the Constitution. Government approval, therefore, is not necessary for the fulfilment of acts of worship being only aimed - as already pointed out - to allow the production of legal effects valid for the state order of some acts of the minister of worship. From this point of view, the administrative court also considers it justified that approval should be granted only if it is linked quantitatively to a social group in which events linked to acts of worship producing legal effects in our legal system have an appreciable frequency. With regard to the minimum numerical criterion of 500 faithful in the local area, the TAR fully confirms its reasonableness, objectivity and non-discriminatoryness also on the basis of what has already been expressed in this field by the Council of State in the consultative session. The adoption of this criterion, in essence, does not give rise to any difference in treatment between religious confessions, instead translating itself into a legitimate differentiation of different situations. Moreover, the judgment states that the different criteria required for approval - those I mentioned earlier - must necessarily be understood in a cumulative and non-alternative sense, which is why, if only one is missing, the approval must be denied. Finally, I note that the subject of government approval of ministers of worship is part of the general theme of religious freedom governed by a normative body dating back to the late 1920s and early 1930s, on which I assure the readiness to compare with the representatives of the various religious confessions, with the academic world and of course, first and foremost, with Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u32	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to thank the representative of the Government for his reply, but I am shocked by this reply. In essence, it is being claimed that rights granted to religious minorities during the period of fascism are being reduced today. Why? Why does the Constitution say that? No, if anything, the Constitution made it clear that it was a matter of broadening that law, so much so that Law 59 of 1929 was laid down in several of its articles for the intervention of the Constitutional Court. Now that there is the Constitution, which in Article 3 provides for the equality of citizens, which in Article 19 provides that no church must be imposed on particular obligations as such, rights are reduced because the Council of State has said so. A decision of the Council of State that cites false data is more important than the Constitution, the law of the State, even in 1929, and it is more important than the Treaty of Peace between Italy and the Allied powers in which Italy promised to guarantee equality to citizens regardless of their religion! This limit of the 500 faithful is absolutely unreasonable. The Council of State said that it deduced it from the minimum number of faithful of a Catholic parish with a priest. This is false because there are, right in my valley, the Pellice valley, municipalities whose total population is less than 500. Most of these inhabitants are Waldenses and Catholics are a small part and there is the resident priest. Moreover, even if this fact were true, religious minorities by their nature involve, with the exception of the Waldensian one in that area, a great dispersion of the faithful and, therefore, if a priest is able to give his care to 500 Catholic faithful it is because these 500 will be in an area that will probably be on average hundreds of times more restricted than where 500 Pentecostals or followers of another religious confession are located. That's unreasonable! A decision of the TAR, which has obviously not been informed - and the Council of State which I am surprised has not been informed - is more important than the Constitution, human rights, the law of 1929, the Treaty of Peace between Italy and the allied forces and the Charter of Rights of the European Union. This is unacceptable! Mr. Representative of the Government, I also thank you for providing further elements, such as the clarification that the minister of worship can only be recognized as such if there is a place of worship in the same municipality of residence as the minister of worship. It is a very absurd thing, that is fine or that could possibly be good for the Catholic Church, which has a very high number of faithful. But for a small reality you cannot think of having in every Common a minister of worship, who almost always carries out such activity in his free time and not full time, always because it is a minority. Maybe he lives near the main municipality of a certain area, as if it were a diocese. Always with reference to the diocese, it would already be a lot if a religious minority managed to have a place of worship for each diocese. And then the minister of worship should reside in the seat of that diocese, which in reality would be a community? This is an unreasonable imposition and, among other things, I am surprised that it is said that the usefulness of the recognition of the minister of worship is only marginal. If it's no use, let's not give it to anyone! Unfortunately, this is not true, because, for example, a minister of worship can make visits to hospitals and prisons, while those who simply define themselves as the preacher of such a church cannot do so. I am amazed and indignant at the content of the reply and not for you, Mr Undersecretary, who, from what I understand, is the spokesman for the officials who wrote it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u33	Following is the question 3-201962, on the effects of the shift of the exercise Trident Juncture 2015 from Sardinia to Trapani. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u34	The Trident Juncture 2015 is an interforce exercise of NATO that will be carried out in autumn 2015 and that previews, to date, a first phase, from 3 to 16 October 2015, in mode of simulation " assisted computer," that it will involve essentially the Joint force air component command (JFACC) of the Air Force military site in Poggio Renatico (Ferrara) and a second phase, "from alive", from 21 October to 6 November 2015, which will participate aerial, terrestrial and naval structures that will be hosted in three different Countries (offered in 2013 as host nations), that is Spain, Portugal and Italy. At the national level, the involvement involves the sending of elements of the Army to Spain, Portugal and Cape Teulada, of aerial structures of the Air Force at the bases of Trapani, Decimomannu, Pratica di Mare, Pisa, Amendola and Sigonella, while for the Navy will be present naval structures included in the national exercise Open Sea, connected to the Trident Juncture 2015. At the base of the 37th Storm of the Air Force of Trapani-Birgi will be risked, from 21 October to 6 November, 18 Italian aircraft and 12 of the Alliance. In this respect, it is represented that: the aircraft that will take part in the exercise will take off to dedicated air spaces, whose use has long been coordinated with the National Civil Aviation Authority (ENAC). In order to minimise the impact with the flight activity of the Commercial Aviation, it was agreed with ENAC to avoid the conduct of training activities during the weekend concerned and in its night arc, including Friday night. The take-off will take place in a staggered manner, without significantly interfering with local air traffic, however, in a season of the year with low tourist attendance. The activity of flight will take place, mainly, in the areas of the southern Tyrrhenian sea, limiting the engagement of the airspace, attested on the airport of Trapani only to take off and landings. The recent use of the base during the Libyan crisis - and the consequent intensity of aerial activity - is not remotely comparable to the intended use for the performance of the exercise, being a limited use over time which, among other things, concerns only take-off and landing. The decision regarding the choice of Trapani-Birgi dates exclusively from a technical planning (Major State of Defense), operational and logistical, of which the Minister of Defense was, of course, informed, as per practice: the communication took place on 21 August 2014. Furthermore, to reassure the civil society of the territory regarding the determination of conditions of insecurity that may be in some way related to the exercise in question, it is pointed out, of a general nature, that all the planned, planned and authorized training and exercise activities are governed by the directives relating to flight safety, in compliance with the rules in force in this field, whose compliance is guaranteed by strict control by the bodies in charge, in order to safeguard the safety of personnel and the population, as well as the environmental protection of the territory. NATO, in the context of the preparatory activities for each exercise and, of course, also the complex ones at the multinational level, pays the utmost attention in defining every aspect relating to the safety of operations and flights, in accordance with the provisions of current regulatory sources of international and national law. Finally, it is considered appropriate to point out that during the period of the exercise is expected the presence in the territories of Trapani and Marsala of about 1,000 Italian military and other military from different countries of NATO, with positive repercussions for the economic induced of the area.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u37	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary, Mr Manzione, who spokesperson for the Ministry of Defence. There are categories: there are the paper-cards and the paper-cards, Mr. Undersecretary, and the latter is the role that you have to play today, because they have made you respond to the 4-04125 issue, which has already been answered, and not to the one I have presented. You answered a question that was submitted after mine as Senators of the PD. In the face of this disrespect... president. Senator Santangelo, we'll check it out. SANTANGELO (M5S). It's a joke for all Italians. We could do without that, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Now I'm not able to do a real-time test. SANTANGELO (M5S). Give me the opportunity to speak so that everything can be found in the shorthand report. I take responsibility for my statements and I ask you to allow me to use the time available to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u38	I'll give you the word right back. You take responsibility for your statements, we will carry out the proper checks. I have reason to believe that the Government has come to answer the question on the agenda, after which you will say your things and, if there is anything to be clarified, we will do so. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, if you will allow me to finish, you are also making an indication. The answer to the question put by Senators of the PD was given on the 19th... PRESIDENT. Do I get an indication? I listen and then they'll evaluate the offices. SANTANGELO (M5S). If you don't want me to finish, do it yourself. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I was making a terminological point. I listen and then they'll evaluate the offices. Taking directions seemed to me a bit drastic.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u39	Mr President, do as you wish, but please do not make it a personal matter with me, partly because it is absolutely serious. We are talking about a territory that you know well, because those operations will take place on the island of Marettimo, which - I repeat - you know well and that lives during the summer. Therefore, the fact that military exercises of this kind are being carried out should at least have it put with due sensitivity to that territory and not in this way, Mr President. I don't even want to reply. I am outraged by the attitude of the Ministry of Defence towards the 5 Star Movement and a territory that deserves absolutely institutional respect, which is what has been lacking in this House today.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u40	We'll run the case. I note that, at the request of the first signatory, Senator Giarrusso, and in agreement with the Government, the answer to question 3-02064 is postponed to a next sitting. Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u41	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-503.ana.u42	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 15 September, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.17.
