ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9.41 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u4	As stated yesterday by the Conference of Leaders, since the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft framework law on international missions has not been received, the draft Constitutional Reform Act will be examined immediately.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u7	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, although it is up to you to harmonise the work and it is up to you to do so, I would like to express to you an objective difficulty for the 5 Star Movement Group to begin this morning with the examination of the Constitutional Reform Act. In view of the fact that the timetable was only voted on last night, there was no material time to arrange for us to register for the general discussion. At the moment, I have not had the opportunity to coordinate with my Group and I would like to ask you for a technical suspension to allow our Group to organise the work that we are preparing to begin this morning as properly and serenely as possible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Santangelo, since there are already registered senators in general discussion, obviously not of the 5 Star Movement, we will proceed with the work anyway. Then, eventually, we will evaluate the circumstances. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to say a few words, but we are right to the end. If the attitude of this Presidency is to make the 5 Star Movement intervene on Friday, i.e. on the afternoon of tomorrow, when all colleagues have already left, I will take note of it and hand over the list of members to talk about the 5 Star Movement, but I do not think this is useful for a general debate as important as the one concerning the constitutional bill that we are about to face. It's always up to her to decide, but I remind her that there are no village fools on this side, according to the movie you're making. [[Applause from Senator Mangili]] , but people who, intelligently, understand the "dirty" that you are doing these days [[Comments from the PD Group]] and in not accepting...
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u8	I suggest you moderate the terms.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u9	SANTANGELO (M5S). Porcate, Mr. President... as I said, in using an irrational methodology... [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u10	Don't insist, please, and let's try to find a way: I don't think the 5 Star Movement has any less prerogatives than the other Groups that have enlisted their senators to speak in general discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u11	SANTANGELO (M5S). Yes, Mr President, the prerogatives are different, because you represent the PD. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, but you'll have time to... SANTANGELO (M5S). With Forza Italia and everything else, however, you already agree. So don't keep messing with us. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u12	Don't continue on this register, Senator Santangelo: I have taken note of your request and will evaluate it, okay? Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u15	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I believe that we all need to participate in this debate with a strong presence. In the end, I agreed: I will go to the Justice Committee tonight and Tuesday evening, because with a prevarication and a majority vote they wanted to introduce two nocturnal sessions, although they said I was willing to participate from 27 September onwards, even in number of two or three per week. As this is a useless job, for what has already been said in this House yesterday, a different decision would have been much more correct during this period of attention on constitutional reform: if it is then a debate that we already know the outcome of and someone thinks that it is better not to listen to others and not to be present in this House, then we can do whatever we want. However, I appeal to your institutional sensitivity, Mr President, to ensure and invite all the members to be present and to cancel the meetings of the Commission, which cannot be held. Tonight and Tuesday I will be present at the night sessions, but it is not correct, Mr President, because unnecessary work must be done, since more night sessions could have taken place from 27 September onwards.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u18	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, just now, she has quickly discharged the examination of the draft law on international missions - for goodness sake, correctly - by informing us that the 5th Commission has not yet hesitated, which is true, of the opinion. It is also true, however, that the fact that the 5th Commission did not hesitate to give its opinion, President Sangalli can give us notice of it, was the result of a late arrival of the technical reports yesterday, both on the text and on the amendments further tabled by the Government yesterday. It is also true that the Government, in responding to some of the speeches made in the Commission this morning, has itself raised considerable doubts about this text. In order to avoid the doubt that these doubts and that this debate has been accepted by the majority, even with a view to speeding up the debate on reforms, I would ask you to have - if you wish through a Conference of the Leaders, but I believe that you can do so yourself - that, when the Commission has given its opinion (I think this can be done quickly) and also lays down the conditions for amending the text, the draft law should be examined. This would certainly help to escape some small suspicion of gambling on the calendar through the bill of international missions and from the political point of view the majority should take charge of these small subterfuges, which I do not believe are in the heart of anyone wanting to carry on. As President Sangalli will be able to confirm, once examined the texts arrived late, the debate definitely important (because it is a bill that plays a lot on the derogations from the norms of the state accounting) and pointed out some stakes of caution the bill will certainly be hesitated without any further referrals. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As soon as he's hesitated, we'll assess the situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u21	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. Mine is not a controversy, but only a reflection as a senator and I believe that everyone in this House could and should understand the requests made by Mr Santangelo on behalf of the 5 Star Movement. My colleague has strongly pointed out to the whole House and to you, Mr President, that your Group needs to have a few more minutes of reflection on what you have described to us in this House. Since he is part of a parliamentary group that is not only substantial but could give something to the reforms that we will begin to examine in a few minutes, it would be appropriate to take seriously the request made by Senator Santangelo on behalf of the 5 Star Movement Group and to comply with this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u24	GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I have great respect for this House. There was a question raised yesterday, namely whether the measure on civil unions should be on the agenda or whether the Bureau's decision was to be respected, which stated that it would be registered when the Commission's work was completed. Senator Buemi, representing one member, and Mr Mario Mauro... Senator Giovanardi, I would like to point out to you that I have the text here. It reads: "The opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission has been received." We are referring, therefore, to the 5th Commission. GIOVANARDI (AP (NCD-UDC)). No, I'm talking about civil unions. The House was asked yesterday to vote on the confirmation of what the Bureau has decided, namely that the measure on civil unions would be registered when the work in the Commission was completed: the proposal to include them in full was rejected by the House. So last night my colleagues Buemi and Mario Mauro, our Group, the 5 Star Movement Groups and Forza Italia - The People of Freedom XVII legislature have taken note of this by asking to start the ordinary work of the Commission and offering a willingness from Wednesday onwards, even by fixing nocturnal sessions. Today and tomorrow there will be a total commitment in this House and we will have to draw up the amendments, as Mr Caliendo rightly pointed out, it would be pointless to set night sessions which would contradict what the House has decided. Having no time to go to the Chamber, we are ready to resume work next Wednesday. Now it is not possible that, in the face of the most important reform of the legislature, in the given time, the Commission will be holding night sessions by preventing its members from following the work and preparing the amendments, knowing very well that only one Group voted on this proposal, the PD Group, of course in contradiction to the vote it had cast two hours earlier. In fact, if you voted against inclusion on the agenda, you do not understand why we should stay there at night. Doing what? To show that work is being done, knowing that it is not on the agenda anyway? Then there is the full willingness from Wednesday onwards, but please take into account that in these four days we are fully committed to a very important reform, which I too have the right to examine and deepen. Not being a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will I be given the opportunity to read the documents and prepare the amendments or do I have to spend the night in a night sitting on a subject that is not on the agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u27	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, when it is not possible to complete a job, it is appropriate to justify it. In these days we have dealt with the subject of military missions several times and we have asked with some pressure to have the technical report, which - as Senator D'Alì said - arrived only yesterday afternoon and is very full-bodied. This measure has many implications relating to public accounting, as well as important substantive implications. Already in the Commission's first report, before the debate, at least three or four aspects which referred to Article 81 of the Constitution were raised immediately. The Commission has therefore examined the structure of the measure in detail today, obviously referring exclusively to Article 81 and the Accounting Act. For this reason, we considered it necessary for further consideration to be given to certain specific issues relating to the law of public accounting and to the clarity of the allocation of public resources, as well as to the establishment of a clear framework of public resources, established that funds are made up and that these funds should have very immanent parliamentary control on the basis of Article 81. It is therefore a matter of the substance of the budget Commission and not of a slowdown in work. This is a very precise circumstance, which requires that in the next few days and in the next few hours the Commission should return to the measure and be in a position to hesitate to do so, without prejudice to the reservations that we are going to propose to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u30	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, yesterday at the Conference of the Leaders we said, in order of our work, that we would conclude the examination of the framework measure on military missions. Yesterday I did not feel that there was any problem with this happening in this House. Now, President Sangalli, with all the good I can want, between "a few hours" and "a few days" there is some difference, because "a few days" means that we will talk about it Tuesday or Wednesday, in full discussion of constitutional reforms. So, Mr President, I would ask you to ask the President of the Commission to hesitate in a few hours, so that we will be able to examine the measure this afternoon, with a certain time, date and outcome. I can understand everything, but it is not that the measure has arrived today at the Budget Commission: the Members of the Commission already knew it and there have been no changes. The Defence Commission has made an important variation to Article 19, which, however, has little or nothing to do with the examination or the problems raised by President Sangalli. So I would ask for a minimum of order and a minimum of precision on the deadline within which we will be able to examine this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u31	President Romani, the timetable has been approved in this respect: With regard to the topics set out in the timetable, the draft framework law on international missions may continue to be examined tomorrow morning, where the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission has been received. The opinion was not received and Senator Sangalli, President of the Budget Commission, explained the reasons for this. As soon as the Commission completes its work, which will certainly not be delayed for any reason but will be addressed with the completeness and delicacy that the issue from the economic point of view requires, the Conference of the Leaders will meet again to decide what to do with what has been decided. This seems to me to be the situation we can face.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u34	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, in the light of what you have said and what Presidents Romani and Sangalli have said, I think it would be perfectly normal, given that the timetable provides for the first examination of the draft law on missions (which is an important issue: we have thousands of our men and women who risk their lives, representing our country and maintaining peace in other countries), to suspend work in this House, in order to allow the 5th Commission to work. The postponement risks in fact to bring the discussion on the bill concerning the participation of Italy in the international missions at the end of the examination of the bill of constitutional reform. I do not understand how the 5th Commission, which under normal conditions has not been able to hesitate to do so because there are real problems, can do so in time cut-outs or I would not know when. The most logical thing - and I therefore propose - is to suspend the work of this House, in order to give time to the 5th Commission to work properly.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u35	Senator Malan, you are therefore making a request for postponement. I would ask my fellow Members if there are any comments. [[Brusio.]] Perhaps not all colleagues are following the progress of the work closely. There is a request to postpone the work... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] If there are disagreements, I ask you to make it official. [[Senator Taverna's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u38	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, we are opposed to the postponement: the 5th Commission will do its job, as it is doing by many legislators, with the accuracy with which it must be done. When you have completed your examination of the measure on international missions under your jurisdiction, we will certainly bring it to the attention of this House, but it seems to me that at the moment this House must work according to the timetable. When the measure is ready, which is on the first item on today's agenda, we shall examine it: you will have, Mr President, and the House will examine it.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u41	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, yesterday at the Conference of the Leaders we held a series of hearings, which began by listening to the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: perhaps we could also hear Senator Sangalli, acting President of the Budget Commission. You see, Mr President, we are used to everything, for Christ's sake, but when a measure on the agenda - which the House has confirmed - is placed at the meeting of the Conference of Leaders, we must be serious and honest with each other: we must have at least a little intellectual honesty. We're pretty tired of having to stand the fakes. Dear President, I would like to remind you that, for example, when examining the draft electoral law, we went on as trains, despite the lack of many opinions from the Budget Committee, so much so that the then President of the 5th Commission, Senator Azzollini, went on to make him express opinions'sittingly' in this House. If you had already decided yesterday that, however, you would have had to start with the examination of the draft law on constitutional reforms, since the discussion on the timetable of proceedings has already been carried out widely, it could have been decided in this sense: at least you would have taken responsibility for it. Fakes, such as putting a measure on the agenda, saying that it would be concluded, then making sure that the Budget Commission does not give its opinion are no longer admissible. We have reached a stage, even in the political relations within the Senate, so we expect everyone to be honest intellectually and assume their responsibilities. Did you want to start the session with the examination of the constitutional bill? Do you have the problem that the questions referred for a preliminary ruling will be examined first and then everyone will have to leave? Of course, all this is meant to ensure that the majority senators can go home comfortably. So you can't go on. Therefore, Mr President, since yesterday the House voted on a timetable which included, among other things, the continuation of the debate on Italy's participation in international missions, I believe that the proposal made by Senator Malan is acceptable. Our Group voted against that timetable, but those who voted in favour should now realise that it is necessary to suspend the House so that the Budget Commission can call for the opinion. There's nothing transcendental about it. You behave like serious people; we ask you at least this. Senator Romani yesterday in the Conference of the Capigroup - not I therefore - asked to know with certainty when the examination of the bill on international missions would continue. Yesterday a decision was taken, so I believe that from this point of view it would be absolutely necessary to suspend, at least to be a little serious and honest between us. [[Applause from Senator De Cristofaro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u44	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I agree with what Mr De Petris has just said. I feel like I'm witnessing a colossal mockery. We have a Budget Commission that is hostage to the Government, unable to express its opinion because the Government does not give the answers. The government, for its part, does not want to give these answers, because it wants to carry on this useless reform: we are victims of a spell of the "fatina" here present and do not want to put hand on the thing. So either we stop playing these games and we do the serious people, as Mrs De Petris said, and we do the hard work, or we don't. Gentlemen, we're doing something here that I think is very serious. The government is holding Parliament hostage: I do not know if you are aware of this and if you agree with what is happening. I therefore ask you to reflect, to avoid this blackmail and to make serious people. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u45	If there are no other speeches on this issue, I believe that Senator Malan's request can be regarded as a request for suspension on which I intend to have the House speak, so that the 5th Commission can express its opinion. BULGARRELLI (M5S). You don't take responsibility, one. SANTANGELO (M5S). Take responsibility!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u48	MARIN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are talking to each other, we are serious people and I believe they are watching us outside this House. When you decide not to take the responsibility of granting us a suspension, which you will determine in time, according to the very quiet request of Senator Malan, and you return to the Chamber, you know very well that there are a majority and a minority, which do not, however, coincide with those present in the country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, M5S and LN-Aut]] Mine is not polemic, but it is clear that there is a numerical majority. However, if all the opposition forces represent the majority of the country, I ask you, President, out of respect for us - with this I conclude and thank you - to assume the responsibility to evaluate the correct, moderate and calm request of Senator Malan, shared with the Group, because otherwise we risk only talking to each other. Perhaps there are colleagues who do not even participate in the work, who do not follow and who are not interested and everything simply ends with pressing a text. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to consider Mr Malan's request alone, in his full autonomy. It will then be you who will assess the timing that you decide to assign to all the opposition groups that request this suspension. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u49	Perhaps someone did not understand the words of the President of the 5th Sangalli Commission, who was unable to say absolutely what time it took to give the opinion: he spoke of hours or days. Therefore, in uncertainty, I believe that, since we have a timetable on which we voted yesterday and which was approved, the only change in that timetable can be decided, not by the President, but by a vote in this House or by a further meeting of the Conference of Leaders, which will decide the change in the timetable. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Then summon the Conference of Leaders. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Since it is not an hour or a day, I believe that we can proceed to the vote on the request for suspension.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u52	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to take your suggestion and ask you to convene the Conference of Leaders. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u53	Well, then I'll call the Conference of Leaders and suspend the session. (The sitting was suspended at 10.09 a.m. and resumed at 11.03 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u54	Colleagues, I refer to the outcome of the Conference of Leaders, which confirmed the timetable of work. I have undertaken to invite President Sangalli to proceed as soon as possible to all the necessary details so that the 5th Commission can express its opinion, with the cooperation of the Government, in case, as it seems, there is need for further clarification. So let us continue with the constitutional reform and, as soon as the opinion of the 5th Commission arrives, we will consider whether the Conference of Leaders will address this bill, even during the examination of other measures.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u57	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, I am sorry but this House must have clarity and, therefore, I repeat what I said to you at the end of the Conference of Leaders. It is clear to everyone - it is well known - that this will mean that the measure on international missions - if there had been the possibility of continuing, it would have been possible to suspend the work of this House, giving the Commission the opportunity to work - gets out of the timetable. Next week, in fact, your examination is not planned and - as you said - there will have to be another meeting of the group leaders to consider the possibility of reinserting it. I'm just saying that for the sake of clarity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you for your clarification. DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). I do not want to appear as the one who calls for the examination of the measure, because honestly that is not my intention, but I say it out of clarity. We voted against this calendar yesterday because we wanted more. But it is good for the House to know that, after all the debate yesterday in which we voted in a certain way and the new meeting of the Leaders today, the result is that the measure - and I say this to those who asked for it - will disappear from the timetable. In fact, there is a surreptitious change in the timetable, and we do not agree with this.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u58	It seems to me that I have read what was written in the speech, namely that the examination of the draft law would have been dealt with, namely that tomorrow morning it will be possible to continue the examination of draft law No 1917, where the opinion of the 5th Permanent Commission has been received. I have now reread it for the third time, so that it is clear, and I believe that this is the approved timetable. So there is no change in the calendar. I'm sorry, but your clarification has created more confusion than anything else. The Presidency of the First Permanent Commission... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Is it a choir? SANTANGELO (M5S). Look at us!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u61	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask you to clarify why I do not understand how this can be achieved from a logical and practical point of view. We should wait for the outcome of the work of the 5th Commission, in a situation where there is a single sitting today, with the only suspension to allow participation in a religious rite. I now ask myself: should members of the 5th Commission be required to give up the participation of work in this House? Or do they have to renounce their participation in that religious rite, to which it has been given - I believe correctly - a dignity such as to allow the presence by suspending the work? In this way they should give up their duties. I cannot understand how we could think of seeing their work done tomorrow if we do not give the formal space for this to happen. Either you give a clarification or I context this situation. I await your reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u62	Maybe someone doesn't follow the work carefully. The President of the Commission has made it clear that there is a need for insights that take hours or even days, and also depend on some clarification requested by the Government. For this reason it is not possible to set a date or a precise time. From this it follows that the examination of the scheduled measure on international missions, which this morning, with the opinion of the 5th Commission, should have taken place, will not be able to continue for these reasons. As has always been the case, when the 5th Commission does not deliver its opinions, the measure slips pending its opinion. Perhaps I was not clear or you were not present: when the opinion of the 5th Commission arrives, we will review the situation together with the Leaders. This is the confirmation of the previous calendar. No changes were made to the timetable. All this is enough. I cleared it up, and Senator De Petris cleared it up. It seems to me that there has been some clarity. ENDRIZZI (M5S). But it is not possible to predict tomorrow too... PRESIDENT. There is no term. We have said that one condition must be fulfilled, which is that of the opinion. If we do not have the opinion, we cannot continue the work. Article 81 of the Constitution seems to me to say that.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u63	The next item is the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 1429-B, which was first approved by the Senate and first amended by the Chamber of Deputies. The President of the First Permanent Commission, Senator Finocchiaro, may speak to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft constitutional law before the House today on the reform of Part II of the Constitution was adopted at first reading by the Senate on 8 August 2014, after a broad debate which, over the months, had enriched itself with numerous contributions. In the Chamber of Deputies the examination of the draft constitutional reform began on 11 September 2014 and was concluded, also in that Chamber, after a thorough discussion, on 10 March of this year. Since the text has been amended at several points during the examination at the other branch of Parliament, the Senate is called to a third reading, also in the context of the first resolution, in accordance with the resolution procedures provided for in Article 138 of the Constitution. The Commission's examination of this third reading began on 7 July with the introductory report. The general discussion, in which 34 senators spoke, took place from 14 to 27 July. At the outcome of the discussion, as was the case during the first reading examination, the Commission decided to carry out a cognitive inquiry, during which constitutional experts were invited to the hearing at a first stage. 32 constitutionalists were audited at the sessions on 27, 28, 30 July and 3 August. At the sitting of 22 July, the deadline for tabling amendments, initially set at 1 p.m. on Friday, 31 July, was extended to 1 p.m. on Friday, 7 August and, at the same sitting on 22 July, it was also decided that opinions on the amendments would be delivered at a sitting to be convened on Tuesday, 8 September. At its meeting on 5 August the rapporteur and the representative of the Government replied. More than 500 000 amendments were tabled to the Commission on 7 August. Already on 1 September, the dossiers of the amendments were available on the Commission's webpage and, for this significant effort, I would like to thank the Senate administration, which, although in a period of updating parliamentary work, involved several services, providing staff and means, to do such a complex job with the utmost efficiency and capacity for organisation, but also for innovation. At the resumption of the work, at the request of some colleagues, it was decided to proceed to a further phase of the cognitive investigation, in which some presidents of the Region or their delegates (Piedmont, Campania, Tuscany, Liguria and Lombardy) were audited, as well as the coordinator of the Conference of the Presidents of the Legislative Assemblies of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. After the survey was completed at the meeting of 15 September, and therefore a week later than the decision taken on 22 July, I made statements that the amendments were not admissible, pursuant to Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only to Articles 1 and 2 of the Constitutional Bill. At yesterday's sitting, Senator Calderoli, who signed the most significant number of amendments, communicated the withdrawal, and also Senators De Petris and Bernini, on behalf of their respective Groups, declared themselves available for the withdrawal of most of the amendments, with the intention of focusing attention only on those considered to be the most qualifying. At that same meeting, Senator Calderoli, supported by Senator Bernini, reiterated his request, already made at the sitting on Tuesday 15 September, to set up a restricted committee requesting a vote in the Commission. I felt that I would not proceed to the vote pending the determinations which the Conference of Group Presidents would have taken, but that it would be convened at 3 p.m. on the same day. As you know, the decision taken at the Conference of Leaders, and confirmed in this Chamber, was to include the constitutional bill in the agenda of the Assembly's work since today's sitting. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u65	We thank President Finocchiaro for the work he has done.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u66	Mr President, the text of the question before us could not fail to address not only the substance of the constitutional reform plan from the point of view of constitutionality (i.e. the overcoming of bicameralism, the reduction in the number of Members and so on), but also the question of procedural procedure. As can be seen from President Finocchiaro's own communication, this was not only one of the elements of discussion, but it was also clearly the subject of yet another unbearable force. And this has happened for a reason that I believe is obvious to everyone. On the other hand, I have here a series of documents - which can also be found on the Senate website - which have been left by many constitutionalists, in which the question of the procedural procedure of the text of the constitutional reform has been raised as absolutely relevant, which cannot - in our opinion - be the subject of extraordinary procedures. Indeed, the very spirit of Article 138 - but I could also say Article 72 of the Constitution, as well as all the debate that has taken place over the past few years - indicates that the procedure to be followed to amend the Constitution should even be further strengthened in the sense of thought. But what have we been facing? First of all, the anomaly with which this project is born, because - I would like to remind you - the Government has actually presented the text, so much so that the Minister here has given her name to the draft constitutional revision. Already in the first step in the commission here in the Senate the first forced force took place through the imposition of the government text as the basic text, although subsequently modified. We have also seen in the House a list of forcings - we know that perfectly well, and we could make a further list here - to bend the Rules of Procedure. They are, therefore, all rifts of great constitutional importance. And, among other things, the President has not only mentioned the withdrawal of the amendments, but also mentioned statements, such as that of Senator Bernini, on the willingness to focus on certain amendments. It was intended, however, at all costs - the Government told us this while we were in the Commission leaking, through the agencies, that the Conference of Leaders would be convened - that the text would immediately come to the Chamber without any kind of further discussion in the Commission, which was therefore expropriated, having held the hearings and the general discussion (the day before yesterday we were only faced with the declaration of inadmissibility of the amendments). Here too, we will have the opportunity to discuss the forcing which has also been done in the reading itself and in the interpretation of Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure. We are therefore faced with an unacceptable political acceleration with serious procedural consequences and therefore, as this is a draft constitutional revision law, it is manifestly unconstitutional, contrary to the spirit and essence of our Constitution. This is an institutional and constitutional rift, because it subtracts the text of the reform from the substantive debate in the Commission, and it is contrary to Rules 34, 102, 120 of the Rules of Procedure and Rule 72 of our Constitution. Moreover, I quote President Finocchiaro himself and Senator Napolitano himself for life, who - as is well known - have worked hard for this reform, who have emphasized the presence in the text, because of the changes made by the House, of critical profiles absolutely evident to all and that have been illustrated to us, underlined, urged in the sense of modification by all the authoritative representatives of the world of constitutionalists, both by those who express a negative opinion of this reform, and by those who give more positive judgments. These profiles have a dual and competing origin. I would like to remind you that some, not by chance, we had already stressed them in the previous reading, as they were present in the government text, while others were introduced in a dramatic way by the House. Therefore, the outcome of the text that was intended to rush into the Chamber, beyond what one thinks, is an absolutely messy and irrational system, in which the Senate is deprived of its own functions (it no longer has any). For the truth, only one thing should be done: have at least the intellectual honesty to suppress it, because it would be much simpler and clearer. There has been a forcing on the interpretation of what it means to overcome the bicameralism of equality, building here in the Senate a House already from the beginning very weakened from the democratic point of view, and that the other branch of Parliament has definitively sinked, deepening the profiles of criticality. All the more reason, therefore, it was necessary to have, as the constituent Fathers predicted, precisely for a series of issues that were further aggravated by the transition to the House, of the times for a discussion, a deepening and a real possibility of amending the text in the context of the work of the 1st Commission, in order to try to bring at least a little rationality into the system itself. All the spirit of reform, which outside is touted as overcoming, finally, the perfect - or even-handed - bicameralism that is actually causing deep wounds in the democratic system and in the system of balance of weights that the Constitution, yes, clearly indicates. Anything can be done, Mr President, but the founding principles of the Constitution and in particular Article 1 thereof cannot be called into question. In the end this overcoming of the perfect bicameralism, with the reduction of the Senate to an absolutely useless Chamber, if not even to a Chamber that may further complicate the same legislative process, together with the election of second degree of the Senate, has an immediate effect on the fundamental principles that are the basis on which the constituent Fathers built the whole constitutional text. In fact, I would like to remind you here that the election of second degree, as in the end it was produced in the transition to the Chamber, and the final outcome of the new Senate were also criticized by the Presidents of the Regions themselves, so that those who in theory should be represented in this Senate of Regions or of the autonomous, as everyone wanted to define it, have actually come to pose us a lot of fundamental problems and criticisms, not only because they are not represented, but because they also understand the potentially conflictual scope of the new structure with the Regions themselves. Once again, the key principles of our Constitution and the democratic system are being called into question by the effect that is being produced: because of the electoral law - the so-called Italicum - the combination between the majority prize and the barrier threshold has been achieved, which first of all reduces political pluralism and political representation, because minorities will have little more than a right to stand, then the fact remains that that type of electoral law will ensure that the Chamber of Deputies will be made up of two thirds of nominations and the Senate will be made up of others appointed by another political class. [[Applause from Senator Bignami.]] From the point of view of the basic principles of our Constitution and Article 1, therefore, the effect is devastating, it is useless to turn around. A representation has been made outwards on the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, but if one wanted to be serious and respectful of constitutional principles, that reduction should have led to a balance of numbers between the House and the Senate, to a diversification of the functions of guarantee, control and even representation of the Presidents of the Region themselves, but with a presence of the representatives of the people elected by the citizens. The first passage here in the Senate had not dealt with the shameful page of the election of second degree (let's define it like this) of the Provinces. I don't know if you remember what happened. The Provinces remain, but citizens no longer know what is happening to you inside and have not been able to elect their representatives. The costs, the problems, are all there but democracy has disappeared there. That's what you want to do. Returning then to Article 2, putting back some elements of representation, of election, by the citizens, therefore with the link with Article 1 of the Constitution, certainly does not solve all the serious problems of system and balance from the democratic point of view that this draft law of constitutional revision poses, but tries in some way to reduce the damage. That is what we did not want to deal with, by barricading ourselves behind an interpretation of Rule 104 of our Rules of Procedure. Mr President, I would like to remind you that it is all to be discussed whether this article can in itself apply to a legislative procedure concerning the constitutional revision; on this point, in 26 hearings of constitutionalists, as many as 20 spoke about the fact that it was absolutely possible to intervene. So, of course, I hope that your decisions, when the amendments are tabled, will be very different in scope. Therefore, the effect of this bill is in total contrast, not only with Article 1, but with the general structure of our Constitutional Charter, because it produces, from this point of view, a very strong narrowing of political representation, political pluralism and the possibility of democracy for citizens. Sovereignty belongs to the people. In this way, however, the people are once again expropriated. It will be expropriated, with the Italicum, from the possibility to choose its representatives and, to the Senate, even from the possibility to access at the very moment of the election. Representations of this reform have been made as a long-awaited reform by Olive and others. We must have the courage to say things as they are. Different choices could be made. We could make the choice, which many have indicated, of the German Bundesrat; but we are talking, in that case, about a federal state, here, instead, we are talking about an intervention on Title V, which is actually of a nature contrary to the federal spirit, but very centralist, and it is paradoxical the effect that is produced. On the other hand, the Bundesrat is linked to a Bundestag where there is no compression of political representation which, on the other hand, will result from this system. There is certainly a barrier in the Bundestag, but there is no majority award. We, on the other hand, are the only country that combines such a high majority prize with a system of ballots that constitutes a change in the form of government. You have not had the courage to come up with an idea of semi-presidency but, surreptitiously, you have come to a strengthening of the powers of the Executive with the debasement of parliamentary democracy; and, at the same time, with the system of balloting, which is always used for the choice of monocratic figures and not for the election of Parliament, in fact, the modification of the form of government is produced. So, surreptitiously, we are the only country that has, together, a barrier and a majority prize. It is therefore not possible to pass on this constitutional reform as similar to existing models in Germany. Nor is it true that there are no other examples of Senates that do not give confidence to the Government even though they are directly elected, not to mention other systems, such as the American one. In conclusion, we strongly believe that we are faced with very marked and clear violations of the constitutional principles of Article 72, as regards the procedure used, and the cornerstones of the democratic system, starting with Article 1 of our Constitution. For this reason, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask that this draft Constitutional Review Act should not be examined. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL Group and Senators Bignami and Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u67	He asked Senator Calderoli to explain a question for a preliminary ruling. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u68	Mr President, I do not have the text, because I have not had time to write it, but I will try to put it together as reflections. I still hear that we have come to this House because of the number of amendments tabled: do we want to stop it with hypocrisy? We come to this House because the majority in the Commission does not have the numbers and the 'table' attempt with its own internal minority has failed, so we come to the House to try to find the numbers, perhaps through a buying campaign, period; let's be clear, the thing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senators Bignami and Gambaro.]] Then, perhaps, it is a coincidence that the renewal of the presidencies of the Commissions has been delayed or that the Ministers, Deputy Ministers and Missing Subsecretaries have not been appointed: we must have the mercy to return in exchange for that vote that will be given and already yesterday we have seen the first evidence of those who propose and are already seen as Ministers. I had already understood that I would have come to this House when I was not appointed rapporteur (and I remember that I had been a majority rapporteur at first reading): it is clear that, in a situation of numerical difficulty in the Commission, not using an opposition speaker as rapporteur means already putting on track someone who makes the war and obviously lose a vote; it was therefore known from the outset that we would come to the House to examine the measure. I have been the rapporteur with considerable suffering, both physical and psychological, to try to reduce the damage to the minimum in the passage of the Senate: I must say that, although the reform was not what I would have written, what had come out of the Senate a minimum of dignity had it: the Senate had its functions, as well as the Regions, and there was a reference to the standard costs, therefore to fiscal federalism. What happened in the other branch of Parliament was the devastation of the Constitution: the sense of responsibility shown by the Senate, which self-empowered itself in relation to its own functions and numbers, the Members of the House have completely forgotten; indeed, 630 were and 630 remain, and, instead of being reduced to a third, as we have done. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , have completely deprived the Senate, the Regions and, economically, the Municipalities of any kind of economy and above all have broken the system of weights and counterweights that exist in our constitutional structure. Some may even pretend not to listen either, because it obviously has better things to do, but if in a Constitution the guarantee bodies (i.e. the President of the Republic, the Constitutional Court, the CSM and all the rest) are elected by Parliament in common sitting and the senators are one hundred, while six hundred and thirty are the Members, who are the expression of a political majority, then those same guarantee bodies are elected only by the majority: and if in a system the majority controls the guarantee bodies, it takes the name of the "regime". This is what we're facing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups and Senators Bignami and Campanella.]] Specifically, let us observe what has been done in Article 55, concerning the functions of the Senate: it had the function of bicameral reading in the matters referred to in constitutional articles 29, that is, the family, and 32, second paragraph, that is, the great ethical themes of health; the House deleted them with a stroke of pen. Linking function between the State and the European Union: deleted. The Senate had to perform the functions of evaluation, verification and control. These were the main tasks, but now he does it in competition. The result is that the Senate no longer has its own independent function. If the Senate is the one who came out of the House, the only good amendment is the one that proposes to repeal it, so it is absolutely useless! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and FI-PdL XVII Groups and the SenatorsBignami and Campanella]] So, I don't care about the little fascinating discussion about direct or indirect election: a deal that doesn't help anything can also be elected with a condominium assembly, which would be absolutely the same thing! This has become a condominium assembly with the costs that unfortunately will be incurred. If anyone proposes to do the Bundesrat instead of this Austrian-like mode, that is fine for me: we do the Bundesrat, but the same functions as the Länder also give them to the regions. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Otherwise, like all the times, as on the electoral law, we say we appreciate the German system but then we do something else; then, we translate from German into Italian because I want the German pastor and not that, instead, every time we introduce the wolf dog, a bastard or similar because we can never exactly copy the models. Compared to legislative activity, the Senate has been completely deprived of everything: it does everything in the House. But there is another aspect that worries me: we have six hundred and thirty Members, of whom the three fifths are indicated, and for the Senate - let us remember this - according to the text before us the list is blocked. Therefore, I cannot be criticized because I had done the Porcellum with the nominations because here it is putting into constitution - and not in an ordinary law - the same thing. The combined arrangement between Italicum, already approved, and this constitutional reform determines the effect that those who can potentially be a force that goes to the ballot with 25% and gets three hundred and forty Members can take the President of the Council - good and just - that of the House and finally also that of the Senate. Can you explain to me why you have to take, for example, the President of the Senate? We have been able to write that we do a Senate with a proportional method, but it must also keep the composition of the Groups. But the two do not come back: is there a question of proportionality with groups born with majority regional electoral laws? Or is it the one or the other? We actually created a two-headed system. This cannot be the case, but what frightens me is the arrangement whereby a party of 25% chooses the President of the Republic, the five members of the Constitutional Court to belong to Parliament and, through the President of the Republic, also gets the other five and, therefore, has ten out of fifteen; appoints the authorities and the CSM. Is this a balanced system? Here there is an imbalance of departure that must be corrected because not only has the Senate been tried to eliminate, but also the Regions have been deprived of any kind of function by abolishing the competing matter and putting it at the head of the State. We did just bingo because, in order not to write the expression "fundamental principles" anymore, we went to invent eight different definitions. The Court had finally clarified what was the distribution of competing subjects; now we are going to put ourselves: general and common provisions, provisions of principle, norms aimed at ensuring uniformity, general principles, fundamental principles, norms of coordination, strategic programming and general ordinamental profiles. We are working on the Constitutional Court for the next 50 years to try to settle the various disputes of the various competences. On Article 116 it has been pretended - and here we open the chapter of the Special Regions - to render and give more autonomy to the Regions to ordinary statute through a form of differentiated autonomy. 11:43 a.m. (Calderoli followed). Without prejudice to the fact that this article is unmissable, they had the courage to tell the Regions that they can take as different forms of subjects that were of exclusive or concurrent competence of the Regions: I give you what I have taken away from you. But then it's really a joke (I'd like to use another term). It also provides for a national safeguard rule, that is, the possibility that in all matters of competence of the Regions then intervenes the State and makes the laws itself; therefore, any form of autonomy disappears. All this applies to regions with ordinary status. We have many members of the autonomous parties who voted for this reform, albeit not in enthusiastic terms. But, if this reform is so good and just, do you explain to me why it does not apply to the Regions with a special statute until the adaptation of their respective statutes (i.e. they will never adapt it and no one will ever do anything about it in the Regions with a special statute)? [[Applause from the LN-Aut groups and Senator Bignami.]] Have the courage, at least this time, to say that it will apply to all regions once the special statute is adapted. I shall close, Madam President, with a brief reflection, which we shall continue to discuss during the examination of the measure. I would really like to laugh or smile, if there was not really a risk behind this, because the Constitution that we are before and that for twenty and broken years I tried to change had nevertheless had the goodness to guarantee respect for the fascist regimes. We are creating the prerequisite for a possible return of fascism. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senators Bignami and Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u69	That's too much.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u70	He asked Senator Malan to intervene to illustrate a suspensive issue. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u71	Madam President, our question will be discussed later, and I intend to make another point. We are faced with a constitutional reform that modifies many articles of our Constitution. About ten years ago - it seems to me as if it were yesterday - we had completed a reform of the Constitution, with the necessary passages between the House and the Senate and then back to the House and back to the Senate (the passages were more numerous than four, because there were changes). I remember that, on that side that is currently carrying out this reform, there were constant warnings that the Constitution cannot be changed by majority means and that it cannot be forced into force. When, after weeks of discussion, there was a real attempt to harmonize the times that led to a certain date or at any rate to a possible date for the vote, the most vibrant protests that spoke of coercion and coup attempt arrived. After this transition was completed regularly, we went to the referendum campaign on the reform that, if approved, would have already led, since 2008, to the reduction of one third of the number of parliamentarians, to the specialization of the roles of the two Chambers, to a shortening of the famous mechanism of the shuttle and to a reharmonisation of the competences between State and Regions. However, the Democratic Party (I don't know if it was called that at the time, but anyway that was the substance), a great campaign against this reform, saying that too many powers were attributed to the President of the Council, who actually saw them only slightly increased, because he could actually remove the Ministers, but he didn't have in his hand the dissolution of the Chambers and he didn't have an electoral law with an abnormal prize, that he could guarantee it even with a minority of votes. Well, there was a great campaign. In that referendum campaign there was the commitment of the entire Democratic Party, also in the Province of Florence. The President of the Province of Florence, Matteo Renzi, participated and signed the appeals whose first signatory was Oscar Luigi Scalfaro, to the cry of "No change of the Constitution." It is the most beautiful Constitution in the world and it must not be changed. In all this mobilization they told the Italians of the lies, that there would be too much centralized power in the hands of the President of the Council, taking for granted - note well that it would be Silvio Berlusconi, as if he had already won the successive elections; therefore he stood up against the danger of the regime. Well, this mobilization included Matthew Renzi and most of the current components of the PD: I say "great part" only because someone was too young to participate in that noble campaign. Today, however, we are really being proposed a situation in which every possible counterweight comes to an end to the will of the leader of the party, who, thanks to the mechanism of electoral law, will take 55% of the Members, perhaps after taking 25% of the votes in the first round. I remember that in the first round the voter votes for whomever he wants, while in the second round he is forced to choose between two alternatives, and he would often do without voting for both. This President-in-Office of the Council would have the government in hand, he would continue to have the hand of the instrument of decree-law - because the limitations set here are absolutely laughable and are, moreover, the simple constitutionalization of a well-known law, which should already be applied today: I stress the verb "should" - he would have in his hand the instrument of trust, in a Chamber dominated by his party, he would have in his hand all the instruments of force that have been made now and he would have in his hand the precedent that is being created at this moment. We can imagine a case, moreover, of school, which would look more like 25 July 1943 than a democratic procedure: as important as the war situation in Italy was, we remember that Mussolini formally fell because, to his surprise, his party decreed his arrest. This, however, was an unpredictable fact for him. Well, assuming in such a situation that there is a majority in a Commission that is different from the one that the Head of Government likes, we could easily do what we are doing now, that is to skip the examination in the Commission. Does the current constitutional reform plan to skip the passage of the text to the Commission? I checked: it's not like that! In the many ways of examining the laws provided for in the reform - which already constitute a frightening complication for the legislation of the future, if, due to the misfortune of the country, democracy and the freedom of citizens, this reform will pass - it is always planned to examine the Commission and in the Assembly of the texts of law, exactly as in the current Constitution, as the constituent Fathers wanted it in 1947. But if the Constitution doesn't like it, it doesn't apply. It says that it is planned to move to the Commission. But if there is a risk of a majority in the Commission, the Constitution does not apply: what is the problem? Unfortunately, this is the real reform that is being carried out, namely the open and shameless violation of the law. At least do it to change the Constitution and make it so uniform to your wishes! At least Article 72 (1) did not apply in order to reform it, thus making a small advance (although in this case too it would be a violation of the Constitution). In this case, however, hypocritically, the same procedure is also maintained in the reformed Constitution, but we already know that the new form will also be violated. That's the problem! Yet we have not heard a word in this sense from the representatives of the Government, always very generous in their apparitions on every medium of information. We have never once heard of the constant forcings that are being made and of the laws brought directly to the House: the law before us is a new one, because we had never seen a law come to the House without even a vote in the Commission and much less for a constitutional reform. The majority in the centre-right had done so, there would have been a revolution, but it simply would not have been, because - look at this - we respect the rules, even if we might want to change them. We would have liked, for example, the direct election of the President of the Republic. Do we want to give the executive so many powers? Let us then make it directly responsible and not through a House that would become 55 percent the Supreme Soviet, or rather the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, while for the remaining 45 percent it would be completely irrelevant. In fact, since that 55% would be granitic, the remaining 45% would only be there to exercise a right of stand, with the power to speak, possibly little and possibly ignored by the media, which must be behind the Ministers and the President of the Council, who, in the Soviet Union, holds the most important office, that of Secretary of the Communist Party. One might think that at that point the debate would move to the whole of the Communist Party, I apologize, to the whole of the Democratic Party in this case (at that time it was the Communist Party). But that is not the case, because even in this case there can be no debate, at most there can be a debate, but it is the majority that prevails. How many times have we heard that? Within the Democratic Party, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating, but then everyone has to adapt to the majority. Let's do the math then. A party with 25% of the votes takes 55% of the seats; with that 55% of the seats you take everything, Constitutional Court, Presidency of the Republic, Presidency of the House - with the possibility of making all the forcings of this world - the Authorities and everything else. This 55%, however, may be difficult to control (let's say that you have made a mistake and that some of those who have been candidates think with their own heads), but it is enough to keep control of just 30% to force the remaining 25% to adapt, for the internal rules of the party that we have heard over and over again enunciated and that therefore should be applied in a particularly rigid way. Let's not forget that Matteo Renzi has been Secretary of the Democratic Party for just over two years, so let's give him time to have that empowerment - as we now say - necessary to exercise all his strength within the party. Therefore, the result is that a party, voted by 25% of the voters - thanks also to the things that voters see are less and less, so out of 100 Italians go to vote in 50 and 12.5 vote for a certain party - it is not even necessary to control all its elected ones: it is enough that it has more than half of them, because then the others have to adjust. Is this democracy? Is this a guarantee for citizens? I understand very well that these days, also thanks to the influence of certain media campaigns, the word democracy is quite empty; democracy is identified with costs and corruption, while, apparently, when there is no democracy, no one is corrupt. This is a little strange reasoning, but it is actually supported by so many media and so-called producers of culture. The problem, however, is that the rules will not be written by Parliament, but only - and this is already the case today to a large extent - the offices of the Ministries and inside will put in any filth, as they are doing these days, without Parliament being able to intervene. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] This is because there will be only one passage - other than a shuttle - perhaps in a hurry, perhaps with confidence and without going to the Commission, because nothing prevents it, since it has already been done in the current Constitution, so it will be done later and this will be the case. That is why this will work: the officials of the Ministries - of course those in charge will have the opportunity to give their directives, without of course consulting Members - under the directive of the President of the Council, Secretary of the Party, will write a rule that, if discussed, will not be voted on in the Commission, while in this House trust will be placed and will be ended this way. Parliament's role is over: it becomes a useless thing. Today Renzi has filtered the voice, which I imagine is authentic, that the Senate could be abolished. For me - I am speaking personally - it would be much better to abolish the Senate than this stuff being presented. [[Applause from FI-PdL XVII and Senators Bignami and Campanella]] In this way, in fact, there would be the possibility for those who win the election in the House - provided that the elections are still held - to govern, whereas, where someone who does not have a majority in the Senate wins, it would be difficult. Well, I believe that the next step will be the abolition of the House or perhaps we could completely skip the debate there, so I do not vote in the Commission, this House and therefore trust. That is why six hundred and thirty Members are needed. It seems to me that in the Supreme Soviet there were 2,200, so they didn't matter at all. The more, the less space there is, so that maybe someone can make our way and become a credible point of reference. This is the future that comes with this bill. That is why I ask you, unlike what is written in the procedural issue, to put forward the discussion of this measure so that we can deal with it - look at it a bit - in the Commission, by applying the first paragraph of Article 72 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Campanella]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u72	He asked Senator Crimi to speak in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u73	Madam President, it seems paradoxical to intervene for a preliminary constitutionality on a constitutional reform, yet we are also in this situation, in which a major constitutional reform violates the principles of the Charter itself that it would like to reform. It is known to all the strong opposition that has been made by many of those people who today sit in the Democratic Party at the time of the constitutional reform desired by Silvio Berlusconi. I remember that everyone was against it, that there were people who had fought and statements of fire had been pronounced against those modalities and contents. And yet today we find ourselves in a much worse way and with a text even worse, because it is the photocopy, badly copied and with some refutation, of the Berlusconi reform: this is what we are approving and that we will try to hinder in all possible ways both in the parliamentary process and in the subsequent referendary battle. When a reform is not approved by a large majority, as it was in 2005 with the reform of Berlusconi, that large majority that could have supported the referendum campaign confirms and instead there will be a strong referendum campaign, of opposition; if someone does not take away also the right to go to the referendum confirmation, since anything is possible, perhaps with a constitutional reform flash, or a regulatory interpretation flash or some other idea of our Premier. I now come to the substance of the question. The Constitutions are works with a unitary sense; they are such for the very concept of the Constitution, so much so that one of the two parts cannot be transformed by leaving the other intact. Part I of the Constitution, which contains fundamental principles of substance, is not independent of Part II, which contains organizational rules, which serve to enforce them or which, in any case, condition their implementation. The draft law in question, transmitted by the House, has deteriorated on many aspects of constitutional importance. As authoritatively expressed at the hearing by several constitutionalists, in particular with regard to the election and composition of the Senate, they are violated, by the current wording of the text, which could not be amended in the referent in the Commission, both the principle of popular sovereignty and the principle of equality, both qualified as supreme by the Constitutional Court in numerous judgments (all cited in the text that I have deposited). In fact, the Consultative Council has stated that the vote "constitutes the main instrument of manifestation of popular sovereignty, according to article 1, second paragraph, of the Constitution ". It is clear, in the text before the Assembly, that there is a serious desire to remove from the popular vote and universal and direct suffrage the election of a Chamber, which is at the same time confirmed as the legislative function and, above all, the function of constitutional revision. Allowing the Constitution to be modified by subjects not directly elected to this function by the people, but chosen by parties at local level, without even a guarantee of proportional representation of the popular vote, constitutes a real constitutional vulnus. At the hearing all the alleged similarities with the German Bundesrat were wiped out, with detailed analysis of comparative law, since the Länder, directly elected by the people, have their own rights within the Bundesrat, which are exercised by their respective governments also within the framework of the legislative function and constitutional revision. This regardless of the fact that Italy is not a federal Republic and that, on the contrary, this same bill reduces the legislative spaces of the Regions. To replace the popular will with that of the representatives of the parties in the regional councils and councils of the autonomous provinces and to call this indirect election is a misleading fiction. Antihistorical, in the era in which citizens ask to participate more and more in public choices, is the fundamental choice of the article, consisting in the reduction of the scope of direct universal suffrage. In a context that already sees the government acting as its master in the parliamentary classrooms (and what is happening in this House these days is proof of this), in a flood of decree-laws, votes of confidence and maximendaments that has perpetuated for years, the choice of the Renzi government is clear: reducing the spaces for the direct popular vote of the elected assemblies; further reducing the powers of Parliament, through the combined provision of an electoral law and a constitutional reform that appear cut out for the use and exclusive benefit of a single part. It is far from remote the risk that you manipulate regional electoral laws - because this is what will happen - have the effect of further reducing the representation of oppositions, aggravating in the Senate the effect produced by the new electoral law in the House. Consequently, on the basis of this architecture, any principle of separation between powers, any institutional balance, with the Constitutional Court and the Presidency of the Republic that may fall into the hands of a single part, even a minority in the country, is altered. The same would happen to all parties of parliamentary appointment, including the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the so-called independent authorities. I add another small note, which denotes the unconstitutionality of this text. To think that the members of the Senate who are mayors will be elected by the regional councils (i.e. that the regional councillors will elect among the mayors those who will represent the territorial institutions, i.e. - one might think - the mayors) is a contradiction. If there were to be some mayors represented in the Senate, the mayors themselves would have to vote for their representatives in the Senate: this function should not have been delegated to regional councillors. Even more, a Senate in which the territorial institutions are represented by the so-called elected regional councillors, but in which the governors of the Regions are not present, demonstrates the paradox, shows that this plant is wrong. Even if someone wanted to consider it politically acceptable, it is wrong because it contains within the obvious contradictions. It is therefore Article 1, together with Article 3 of the Constitution (in terms of equality between citizens and a canon of reasonableness), the main victim of the content and procedures followed for examining this bill. Once again, the ordinary procedure laid down in Article 72 of the Constitution has been ignored by majority voting. Precisely at the apex of the lowest and darkest period of popularity of the territorial self-governments burdened, according to the subscribers of this question, by scandals and bad governments of all kinds (the Regions have been the protagonists of the worst scandals of recent years), here are the regional councillors projected, by local inter-party agreements, directly in the Senate. We build a fake Chamber of Autonomies because this organism apes in form but betrays in substance the foreign experiences, to which we would allegedly like to recall. We shall thus have, according to the text before us, a House which will be able to invoke any law at its leisure and make proposals for amendment on it, which the other House, that of the Members, will be able to ignore. A mechanism that does not bring any clarity on the problems of the quality of legislation but, if anything, aggravates them. However, on very sensitive issues such as the revision of the Constitutional Charter itself, the new Senatorial Assembly will be able to express itself with equal force and equal legislative dignity compared to the House directly elected by the citizens. We will then have the paradox of an expensive assembly of "double-voorists" - at the same time mayors, regional councillors and senators - which is not considered worthy of saying the last about any legging but will have the last word on the Constitution, on rights, on freedoms, on fundamental principles. It is therefore created with the text under consideration - unless the necessary corrections are made to it - a body that oscillates between the utility and the danger; a body whose five percent of the members would consist of persons appointed by the President of the Republic, and in which, on a transitional basis, the current senators would transit for life, while the remaining would be 95 councilors and part-time mayors chosen on the basis of local political-party alchemies. To think that mayors will also have time to be senators, even in this case, is really a ridiculous paradox, as my colleague suggests next door. It is therefore the exact opposite of that hitherto proclaimed and established, considering the laws and articles of the current Constitution that have so far expressly and motivatedly prohibited double assignments. The exact opposite is also true of what the current majority in this House said when they were part of the opposition, during recently passed legislation. It would be enough to resume the synographical reports of that time to understand the instrumentality of the words, past and present, spent before against and now in favor of this same system against reformer. In the total imbalance, in the face of these 95 time-lost legislators - who, as I said, could exercise themselves as they please on the constitutional changes and on all the laws that the complicated mechanisms of the new Articles 70 and 72 of the Constitution reserve to them - would remain an immense army of six hundred and thirty Members, who are and would remain burdened by the flood of legislative proposals of government initiative, without being able to count on the counterweight of a second Chamber of correction of the errors that the chronicles of the legislation have long recorded in a Parliament reduced to merely a body of ratification of decisions taken elsewhere, far from the spotlight of the press and public opinion. To this I add further evidence. All laws reach the public, are commented on and often found in them errors, contradictions or dangerousness only after the first reading by one of the two rooms. The first approval of a text involves the activation of that process of popular verification, by the press bodies, by constitutionalists, schools, teachers, all those involved, by the professional associations, which in recent years allows and has allowed the second Chamber to make those changes necessary to prevent a given measure from coming into force with errors: we have had flashing examples also recently, in this last legislature. Instead, we needed - and the amending proposals that we did not want to examine - to halve the number of MPs and senators, to revise the spheres of competence in order to strengthen the control over the Executive, to reduce the overwhelming role of the Government, to increase the spaces of popular vote and direct democracy (which you wanted to ignore and insert with mere references to future laws). It was intended to pursue and, procedurally, impose the opposite route by majority, after years and years proclaimed that the Constitution is not changed by majority blows. This can freely and openly support the preliminary ruling submitted by a Group that has filed less than 200 amendments, but all of merit and no obstruction, to a bill consisting of as many as 40 articles and several hundred paragraphs. All the audit experts in the Commission have proposed, in different ways and with different perspectives (including those who had said they were in favour of the so-called reform in question), various changes to the text transmitted by the House, including requests for amendment on unmodified parts. This is because the internal contradiction of the text and its general imbalance, its nature at times contrary to the fundamental principles of our Constitution, appeared to make - by logic and in full constituent spirit - a mere procedural barrier which had already been overcome in the past even less evident. It would have been enough to listen to the hearings, to read the technical contradictions fully exposed in the auditions documents and in the files of the Chamber and Senate Studies Services themselves, to realize the unreasonableness and the antinomies of a structure that would be necessary to correct quickly, if ever approved. But, perhaps for contingent electoral reasons, it has been unscrupulously claimed not to see and to go forward in spite of all reasonableness, giving Italy a less democratic Constitution, which endangers the rights of all compared to the bullies of the few. In vain, even the audits favorable to the proposal have explained that forms of direct election are compatible with a Senate that does not vote for the trust; in vain they have outlined the other ways to correct the distortions of the legislative processes, today almost exclusively attributable to the confusion of the action of government (to the errors of the Executive in writing the drafts of law), that generates confusion in the parliamentary majorities and, in reflection, on the activity of the Chambers. We will instead have a Senate duplicate of the State-Regions Conference that will aggravate - under new and different forms - the failures already produced by the revision of Title V. It would have been necessary to reform the regional institution, given the bad results it produced, and instead it comes to spread in the national context, while the text is careful to reduce, if not to zero, also the powers of investigation, investigation, inspection of the Senate. It was not done, but we had to list the exclusive legislative competences of the Regions, in order to reduce the litigation; instead it has maintained a obscure terminology that brings back from the window the concurrent competence, formally exited from the door. Therefore, in the present question referred to the Court, all the constitutional criticisms already analysed at first reading are necessarily brought forward and reiterated, since, instead of correcting the errors reported, they were intended to be aggravated. I do not go any further, because there are pages and pages of technical and punctual remarks on the various points of the article of the reform that are contested by our Group and that we believe are going to violate the fundamental principles of that same Constitution that we are now saying we want to amend. That is why, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, we are asking that the Senate Act 1429 not be examined. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u74	I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and inform the House that we will resume our work with the submission of a further question for a preliminary ruling. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.15 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) He asked Senator D'Alì to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u75	Mr President, the question which I am preparing to present, and for whose detailed content I refer to the document deposited, also stems from the changes that the House of Members has made to the text already adopted here in the Senate and which confirm its absolute inadequacy to support certain fundamental constitutional principles. The main damage to the Constitution that this text brings is referred to in Article 1, where.... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u76	Colleagues, please lower your voice so as not to disturb Senator D'Alì's intervention. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Where - I said - in Article 1 the Constitution says that in our country, in our Republic, sovereignty belongs to the people. It is clear that the invented electoral mechanism, which may still be under some fantasy blow during this debate, to further undermine its complexity, is an absolute negation of popular sovereignty. In fact, no one can tell us that this is a popular sovereignty implemented by intermediate means. People's sovereignty, especially in legislative bodies, is directed. Either there is direct election by the people or this sovereignty no longer exists. Ergo, lacking popular sovereignty and, therefore, popular investiture, these legislative bodies should no longer be such, but be without legislative power, as is used for sub-governments. Here, in fact, we are at the level of a regional sub-government, as if it were a company or a subsidiary of the Regions. The main injury, therefore, lies precisely in the violation of Article 1 of the Constitution which refers to popular sovereignty. I repeat: either this sovereignty is expressed directly by the people in the election of the legislative body (and we know that this Senate is maintained a strong legislative connotation: one for all is the competence to examine and decide the constitutional laws); or this popular sovereignty no longer exists. That's a straight point. But it is a point which, in my opinion, also refers to another violation of the constitutional dictation, which must be framed in the time and in the manner in which it was approved. I am referring to Article 138: it is true that we are formally following the dictation, which provides for the possibility of amendments to the Constitution; it is also true, however, that it refers to majorities which, at the time the Constitution was adopted, had at the base an absolutely proportional electoral system, therefore representative of the entire popular will of the nation through the parties and the elected. We are now in the presence of a Parliament which is no longer representative in its numbers of the proportionality of the electorate's will: it is already in itself modified in numbers, therefore in components and percentages, by the so-called majority prize. We are therefore faced with parliamentary wills which are used, in accordance with Article 138, to amend the Constitution itself, but which do not actually respond to the political and intellectual fabric of the country. There is more: this Article 138 is used by a majority which, in its composition, has already been judged as unconstitutional by the judgment of the Court, so we are not in a Parliament elected by an electoral law with majority prizes still in force, but we are in the presence and we all participate in a Parliament in which majorities have been determined by coefficients that the Constitutional Court itself has defined as not in conformity with the Constitution. To insist therefore on constitutional changes of such a wide range with this parliamentary composition does not only mean to proceed with majority blows, which many colleagues have already called censorable in their speeches, but also to insist on by a majority already judged unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court itself. I therefore believe that all these elements must give a great deal of thought to the strong push and pressure that is being put to the adoption of this rule. Not because he is fond of my ideas, but I believe that such a broad constitutional change - Article 138 is good for some adjustment - must be launched by a constituent assembly elected with a proportional system, which would have two advantages: that of being representative in a truly proportional way of the entire Italian society and that of being released from the constraints of government activity. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, here we are in fact constantly witnessing the news and the corridors, but in fact also in the statements made in this Parliament, to passages of opinion that are not dictated by the verification of the liking or conviction on the constitutional changes, but they originate in movements of the group of government and of the positions of government or parliamentarians and therefore in contingent facts, which then reverberate on decisions that go to modify a Constitution that is the fundamental Charter of the rights and management of the country under regime, as they say. If these adjustments were to be changed tomorrow, the opinion of many could probably change as a result of this change. Why, then, is this fuss, insistence and protection in wanting to change the fundamental Charter of our society through the numbers of a majority which, as I have tried to demonstrate, is constitutionally no longer valid? I think that this is, among other things, - in general discussion I will repeat the concept - also a missed opportunity on the part of those who are pushing us today for the rapid adoption of this text. While it is true that the reform of the Constitution must also serve to simplify and make less heavy the presence of the State and its articulations on the daily lives of citizens, from this point of view this reform is completely lacking the objective. There is no intervention on the structure of the regions: there is intervention on certain competences, but not on the structure. Today, among other things, someone wants to say that the speed with which this reform is proposed to Parliament also depends on an economic effect for the possibilities that Europe can give us about the flexibility or not of our budget in relation to the European parameters. Never the most resounding lie was told in this regard because this reform does not simplify, it does not save money, but rather complicates and confirms two negative principles in the constitutional framework. I am referring to the proliferation of institutions on the government of the territory: 21 regions - which optimistically could be abolished - are not even merged and there is no revision of a structure of regional bodies that today are those that, according to the data of the state's adjustment, produce a higher expenditure on increase. While all the other groups (from the Ministries to the Municipalities) are forced to cut their expenses, the Regions continue to be the ones that spend, increase their spending and do not face any kind of control or reduction obligation. This is a missed opportunity. I see in this Premier - which, in my general speech, I will allow myself to define as an Odoacre of our time - the will to absolutely approve a reform, whatever it may be, with the mentality of those who suddenly find themselves benefited from an unexpected fortune. He is like the one who suddenly wins a lottery and decides to immediately invest this new heritage in often dissensible shares. Here we are burning a political heritage, acquired without the popular consensus, because we all know what is the basis for the appointment of the current Prime Minister as President of the Council, without considering the content of what we are approving and without allowing Parliament to be able to discuss freely and serenely. What we are going to do should be votes which should be assessed individually by each component. It would be strange if there were someone from the opposition who shared the majority's proposal, which would not be strange at all if there were someone from the majority who did not share the government's propositions. This alters the process of constitutional reform. The true unconstitutionality of this provision lies precisely in the way in which it is being conducted and interpreting the possibility of amending the Constitution and, as I said at first, in the way in which part of the sovereignty enshrined in Article 1 of the Constitution is taken away from the people. In fact, delegate the appointment of senators to regional councils, whose electoral laws are, in turn, all determined at regional level and most of them also contain majority prizes so that the composition of those regional councils does not respond to a proportional distribution of the fabric of the political will of the individual societies, more amplifies the overall nature of injustice with which the new Senate will be elected. But the straight part, the absolutely and unequivocally clear part, is that the Italian people lose a slice of their sovereignty. Then, if the President of the Council and then the majority who follow him really wanted to follow Odoacre's footsteps, they abolished this Senate, as it was done in 476 after Christ. They abolished it, affirmed the principle of monocameralism through a single Chamber and did not come to tell us that they keep the Senate alive, because this is not a Senate elected by the people, but is a State-Regions Conference constitutionalized in an abnormal way. And this is definitely a very dangerous anti-democratic drift of our country. These concepts I had already expressed during the previous reading of the measure, in which, although I was then part of the majority, I not only declared myself opposed to the reform, but did not take part in the vote, not even considering it worthy of a vote against. We are now at a new reading and we hope that changes can be made. However, even if amendments were made, the constitutional vulnus that I have allowed myself to illustrate would remain.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u77	[[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u78	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single discussion will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and will be open to one representative per Group for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u81	CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). Mr President, more than continuing with the explanation of the reasons which led us to present one of the prejudices (this has already been done, and with great skill, by the chairman of my Group), I ask myself a question and I will try, throughout this session, with the speeches of the senators and senators, to obtain an answer. Why are we in this House like this? How did we get there? I give an explanation and an answer, which I offer to debate and reflection. This happens because a majority, the majority of the Democratic Party, has chosen an extra-parliamentary route and tables have been formed in this sense. So, rather than taking the time as we are doing, I think we should follow a coherent path. If a choice of this nature is made, that is, extra-parliamentary, the majority of the majority party - excuse the word game - assumes a political responsibility of primary level, because necessarily this approach, this table and this path must be given a solution, a political solution. The choice of another institutional path (the Commissions and then the House), where the merit is in there and also the attempt to resolve it is in there, implies in itself the characteristic that every solution is institutional; this road requires that there be a political majority at the end of the path, with a perspective, with a design and with a path. It is not possible to continue to see what has been seen in the past hours and days, with senators and senators who normally, by their choice - which they will have to explain in some way - never show up, neither in this House, nor in the Commissions to which they belong, who guard the camp, and then disappear again when there is no longer the need to prove their presence, because we are in a stage of discussion and we do not have to vote or certify the presence of the quorum. We are all the subjects, as the press reports, of a situation that already defines as Arab suk, would be to ennoble it. If that is the path that we will continue until we reach the word "end" of the so-called second reading of the constitutional reform bill, there will be neither won nor winners. We will really expose ourselves to some element of great danger, because, beyond the fact that we will find or not find the numbers - and that therefore we do not fall into accidents of course, with its consequences for the country - we will have created an ungovernable and indigestible product. No one is under any illusion that the referendum campaign is going to be shot at. It is clear that a result has been achieved through a combination of numbers. I don't make accusations about how you got there, but you admit it by saying: We'll find the numbers. Can one imagine, then, making a referendum campaign by saying that they wanted to streamline the institutions and wanted to save money and make the Senate and the caste lose weight? No, we cannot, because with the untouchability of Article 2 it is clear that a fundamental principle, which is that of popular suffrage, has been prevented. The oppositions have already said in a first step to the House of Deputies, and they are doing so even now, that the question of overcoming bicameralism and reducing parliamentarians is an absolutely open door, which therefore does not need to break through. So there are other subjects on which the debate will take place during the confirmation referendum. This will inevitably mean that - given the famous combination with the hyper-majoritarian electoral system of Italicum - the list that will be successful in the elections will be forced to reform the Constitution. This applies to any list that will be successful, whether that of the Democratic Party or that of the United Rights, because with the artifices of the electoral systems they do not prevent the coalitions, broad or narrow that they are: we are in a country of great inventiveness from this point of view and therefore no one is deceived. Anyone who wins will be forced, as I said, to make a real reform of the Constitution, with the privilege of being able to do it really at his will, with numbers and conditions that must not be subject to any explanation from the point of view of guarantees and balances with respect to fundamental elements that characterize the nature of our democracy. I do not make threats, I do not speak of going out, but of course a new chapter opens up regarding what are the known forms of parliamentary democratic systems in which a small minority, that is, the majority of the majority party, can change in a structural way the characteristics of our country with regard to the fundamental organs and, therefore, the characteristics and functions of the President of the Republic, its election, as well as the functions of the Higher Council of the judiciary, of the Constitutional Court, with sufficient numbers to determine, in an even confused order, absolutely Bulgarian majorities. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. CERVELLINI (Misto-SEL). President. - I conclude by making a modest appeal to the majority of the Democratic Party, which has taken on this political responsibility. I believe that there is still time to decide whether to make a privilege of the institutional path or privilege of political choice and political confrontation, even within a majority and a vision that can be personally opposed to me; but that we do not go then to seek votes to pass something that in the examination in the House has been visibly and explicitly worsened and to which absolutely must be sheltered, allowing us to correct errors that have been clearly pointed out by the greatest experts within the confrontation that there has been on these issues and on which everyone has agreed. When there is the possibility of a confrontation, in fact, I find no one who counters me when I context some obvious mistakes that have been made, not only in the passage to the Senate, but also in that to the Chamber of Deputies. [[Applause from the Misso-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u84	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I listened to the speeches that preceded me in the illustration of the preliminary questions, from which I gathered some points: some have insisted more on the aspects of form, the regulatory forces, the emptying of meaning and legitimacy of what we are doing; others have focused more on the background, on what we can read three lines of this modus operandi, namely that, in essence, much has already been decided, negotiated, agreed and negotiated in the secret rooms. Perhaps the Nazarene Pact is temporarily suspended, but something similar is being done, something dark, which is not manifested here except through procedural evidence. President, you have been called on several times to decide. It has not yet done so and I hope it will perhaps do so on the most important occasion, but here we are really witnessing an overall collapse. I can think of the image of a climb where, one by one, the nails jump, the people come off the wall, and we no longer know who will eventually be able to hold back the fate of democracy. Mr President, between the middle of 1946 and 1947 in the Chamber of Montecitorio it was examined, prepared to approve the Constitution of the Republic: the current Constitution has been in force since 1948. Italy has grown above all in its democracy, in its civil, social and economic life. At that time there were also strong differences in this House. In April 1947, the first government around Christian Democracy was formed, with the Communist Party and the Socialist Party in opposition. There were very strong contrasts, contrasts that concerned the vision of society and the international location of our country; there were serious issues of contrast, a heated confrontation and very strong polemics. Yet majority and opposition, together, have then approved the Constitution. At the government counter, where perhaps he is now chatting, when it came to examining ordinary measures or talking about politics and confrontation between majority and opposition, De Gasperi and his ministers sat. But when that Assembly dealt with the Constitution, examining its text, the Commission of the 75, composed of majority and opposition, was sitting at the benches of the Government. The Government of that time, the De Gasperi Government, did not sit on the benches of the Government, to underline the distinction between the two dimensions, that of the confrontation between majority and opposition and that concerning the rules of the Constitution. This lesson of a government and a majority who, despite their strong opposition, were able to maintain and demonstrate even with formal gestures the difference between the Constitution and the normal confrontation between majority and opposition, is now completely forgotten. The institutions are common: this is the constant message that came in that year and a half from a constituent Assembly, crossed - I repeat - by strong political contrasts. As hard as this contrast was, there was the conviction and ability to think that they should approve a Constitution for each other, for themselves and for others. This lesson and this example have been completely abandoned. Today, you of the government and the majority are making your constitution. You have prepared it and want to approve it, you alone, thinking only of your needs, your opinions and your relations within your majority. The Government and the majority sought agreements only within them in the event that accompanied the formation of this profound and radical amendment of the Constitution. The Government and the majority, I repeat, have sought agreements within them, and every time they have modified the text and found agreement between them, they have armored this agreement; you have systematically excluded any willingness to examine the opposition's proposals or even just to discuss with the opposition. This is because you did not want to risk changing the agreements within you, your difficult internal agreements. The way in which this Government and this majority proceed - and I stress this once again - was the opposite of the way in which they acted in the constituent assembly, by the government, by the majority and by the opposition of that time. Where is the moderation of this majority? There isn't any. Where are the moderates? Except for a few sporadic exceptions, there are no exceptions, because moderation is the opposite of the attitude followed in this decisive, very important and fundamental affair. You went on in this foolish reform, contrary to the example of the Constituent, just so that the Government would not fall. Well, this change is wrong, you know it too. With this sensible change you have predicted that, in essence, the power will be accentuated in a few hands. You know it's bad, too, but you've been trading for the Constitution in force since 1948 with a few more months of government life. This is the attitude that marked this story. Once again, on this occasion, emerges the very conception of this Government and this majority, according to which the winner of the elections owns the institutions, is its owner. This is a mistake. Mr President, you will have noticed very well, from some details, that these are not my words. The then-Mr Sergio Mattarella pronounced them to you; he pronounced them in the Chamber. But today they are more valid than ever and they unveil some of the comments that I want to make to you and that are - I believe, modestly, more modestly than the words I have read to you - important to vote on this occasion. The first observation is that in the dialectic between the parties we must now really abandon the concepts of right and left; we must speak, if anything, of power, of those who have it at that time and of those who aim to conquer it, perhaps betraying the principles declared in the electoral campaign, their history, the mandate and obeying simply a mission: the survival of an entity, which is nothing but an organization of private law called party, with any label or symbol present. The second point is that then, if after ten years we are still in the same situation, perhaps there is something wrong, not in bicameralism, but in the systematic occupation that party structures have implemented in our society, in our institutions, in the management of the public good. I want to bring to you the words of Professor Pace, who, at first reading hearing here in the Senate, clearly said that this Parliament is not legitimate, as it is appointed by an unconstitutional law. True, the principle of continuity of the institutions can heal past work, but Parliament should be dissolved, at least now; we know that the law was unconstitutional and we must restore legitimacy. What has been in these months has been, but since 1 January a different story had to begin. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, in the third reading, almost all the constitutionalists in the Chamber have expressed and indicated holes, holes, ulcers in the living flesh of democracy in this text and not only in the black parts that are the ones modified by the House: it is the whole plant that is not standing. This must be recognised; amendments that could give stability must be allowed, rewarding the reproach that is being done, perhaps even in other articles, but making the new Constitution coherent and organic. Because - I believe and believe that you agree - we must overcome bicameralism, not democracy. Well, if this does not happen because the subjects who today would like to put their hands on the Constitutional Charter are essentially delegitimized, perhaps, colleagues, not only by method or by the formal violations in place or by the contents, but also because historically we are confirming an illegality - we are not worthy of tampering with the legal foundations of our society, of our lives - we should raise our hands and recognize that this House cannot proceed. The recent considerations of Professor Alessandro Pace in the last hearing are worthwhile: we must pay attention and not think that the Constitutional Court will remain absolute, even in the face of a possible confirmation referendum, but will have to intervene if this work does not emerge a coherent and respectful Constitution of the fundamental principles. Then, today, even from a pragmatic point of view, remove the idea from your conscience: even this legislature will fail, because you could fail in the most resounding way possible and be ashamed for having truly conceived a monstrosity. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senator Council.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u87	BONDI (Mixed). Mr President, even today in this House the words'scampio', 'devastation', 'attack on democracy' have resonated, until the inevitable accusation of regime and fascism. Unfortunately, these are words that we too much hear and not only in Parliament - to tell the truth to alternate parts - without the awareness of the seriousness of the accusations and of the poisoning of political life that in this way results. I can understand the 5 Star Movement, which can rightly claim absolute coherence, even in this matter, of opposition to this reform, believing that the system is rotten and that a strenuous opposition without discounts will finally implode and fall. However, hearing these words spoken by the League and Force Italy may make you smile, but in reality it should be indignant. The League and Forza Italia in fact - and I was, of course, fully responsible for this - passed an electoral law, called Porcellum, with a parliamentary force that I remember very well. The League also imposed on the left - as we all know - an amendment of the Constitution on competing subjects between the State and the Regions, approved with a minimum rejection of votes, which created absolute institutional confusion and total paralysis and ungovernability. Finally, the League and Forza Italia approved and submitted to referendum a reform of the institutions very similar to what we are discussing - in some respects, at least - and, in the same way, accused of attacking democracy and institutions. But the most incredible fact - in my opinion - is the attitude of a party such as Forza Italia, which first strongly votes for this reform and today even claims to declare it unconstitutional. There is a limit to the reversals of the line and in front of a party within which - as you know very well, colleagues of Forza Italia - anything can happen, except the possibility of discussing and confronting each other, and I also feel responsible for this. [[Ironic applause from Senators Rizzotti and Pagnoncelli.]] Today, however, Italy needs first of all seriousness, otherwise politics becomes grotesque and a ridiculous staging, even to us who recite it. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator D'Anna]] Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Bravo! Congratulations!
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u88	We shall now proceed to the vote on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. Verification of SANTANGELO (M5S) quorum. We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the draft Constitutional Act No 1429-B PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator De Petris and other senators (QP1 text 2), Senator Paolo Romani and other senators (QP2), Senator Crimi and other senators (QP3) and Senator Calderoli. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. AIROLA (M5S). Close the doors that are coming in. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The problem is given by those who go out, possibly. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the suspensive question put by Senator Malan. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u89	Mr President, they are bouncing in this House, in this debate but also in the debate, accusations of anti-democracy, coups and fascism against the Democratic Party and its leader. I reject these with absolute firmness, because I believe that the Democratic Party has the humility not to give lessons in democracy, but also the awareness of not having to receive lessons in democracy from anyone. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] The PD has a recent history and the ideals that have formed it that at the level of democratic sensitivity we do not take lessons from anyone and we have not, in the past, had responsibilities, which have aggravated other positions. AIROLA (M5S). Because we don't count anything! Mr Pagliari (PD). I would also add that we have no leaders who make subversive statements on the constitutional level and who have no constitutional sensitivity. AIROLA (M5S). Because Parliament has nothing to do with it! Mr Pagliari (PD). Let us discuss the substance of the problems again. [[Comments and prolonged ironic applause from the M5S Group]] On this level the first consideration is, if you want to talk about the reform or if you want to always go back to the starting point. [[Comments of Senator Montevecchi. Extended applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group]] In fact, in this debate so far it has simply been understood that we want to get to the point of not changing anything. [[Extended applause from the M5S Group]] This is the great innovation. This is the openness to the citizens, this is the sensitivity to the problems of the country that shows who, instead of seeking and pursuing the conditions of construction of the reform, wants to do something else. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] Montevecchi (M5S). Shame! You solve the country's problems... president. Please sit down and allow Senator Pagliari to complete the surgery. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] We understand that there is an applause of approval, but that can be enough now. There has been talk and talk of violation of Article 1 of the Constitution... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] As I said, there has been talk and talk of violation of Article 1 of the Constitution, which, however, literally states that sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it in the forms and limits of the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] We are simply thinking about the forms by which the people can exercise sovereignty. I believe that an effort to give the institutional system the decision-making capacity that it lacked is precisely the first demonstration of the will to implement Article 1 and not of course of wanting to violate it, because sovereignty belongs to the people and the forms of representation are... [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]] The more effective forms of representation are, by allowing political decisions to be taken, and on issues affecting the people, the more democratic they are and restore sovereignty to the people themselves. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, let's agree. All interruptions due to applause will result in the suspension of the counting of the time granted to Senator Pagliari for the conduct of his speech. So let us not make ironic applause. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] Above all, let us avoid accompanying the applause with considerations that are perceived not in their meaning, but only as shouts. [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] Senator Taverna, you've already shouted enough. TAVERNA (M5S). But I didn't talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please sit down and let Senator Pagliari speak. TAVERNA (M5S). For what he says! Mr Pagliari (PD). This reform is part of the reflection dictated by the need to give adequate institutions to an Italy that has changed since 1948. Today we have a system in which the levels of territorial government have assumed a different importance and a different role from those of 1948, possessing an importance which, in the spirit of Article 5 of the Constitution, needs a conformity and a place of comparison also at the level of the Italian Parliament. This requirement is met by the proposed new model of bicameralism, which is not a reform of the old bicameralism, but a replacement. The ownership of the trust relationship and, therefore, the political function is returned to a Chamber, putting at the head of the other Chamber the role of link between the territorial institutions and the central level. Thus, in terms of the comparison to be carried out before the adoption of laws (i.e. according to the determination of national legislation), that level of comparison and synthesis is necessary, as demonstrated by the recent history and by the many evoked conflicts of attribution between the Regions and the national State. This is done by the current model which assigns the political function, as I have already said, to the Chamber of Deputies and therefore renders direct election an undisputed duty for that chamber because it is the most important place for representation and political decision. As for the Senate, the chamber of territorial institutions, a connection with the territories had to be made and since we are not in a federal state but in a regional state, a state of autonomy, this was not to be done by putting in the Senate the highest representatives of the executive bodies, councils and regions, but by means of a mechanism that would allow this audience to representatives of the people elected on the regional councils. This is what has been achieved, this is the synthesis, this is also what justifies the fact that the Senate of the Republic also has legislative competence over constitutional laws. It is an element of balance between the directly political House and the Senate. This balance, since it concerns fundamental laws, also brings about a contemporating of the role that is given to the Chamber of Deputies. I believe that from this point of view we must reflect adequately because in the essential structure of the draft that had come out of the Senate also the competence for referral, which was entrusted to the Senate, had a clear potential to determine, in the legislative process entrusted to the Chamber of Deputies, a role that was not irrelevant even to the Senate of the Republic. The expected balance was sought through the technical formulas necessary to achieve the basic political design, that is, the political design that represented this diversity, this bicameralism differentiated and, in some way, specialized. Now, all this, in my opinion, is fully realized in the bill that had come out of the Senate because, in terms of competence, the definition of Article 1 gave a balanced, precise and clear picture of the competences of the House and the Senate. A clear framework that is essential for the proper development of the actions of the two parliamentary bodies. From this point of view, I believe that today, within this framework, we can reflect further on the way in which senators choose, that is, I believe that there can be a reflection that in this context, and bearing in mind the principle of the Senator and the Senator mayor, can lead to a definition that, always in this area and without prejudice to the fact that the design proposed to this Senate at third reading does not violate democracy and indeed is perfectly consistent with it, can achieve a further balance even compared to what emerged in the debate that has developed. From this point of view, it is clear that even at the level of the guarantee bodies, a further reflection can be made that I believe must begin first of all from the consideration that we must return to the Senate's formula on the judges of the Constitutional Court and that we can also reflect on the mechanisms and majorities relating to the President of the Republic. All this, however, in the context of the progressive definition of the reform, which goes forward, towards the definition and conclusion of the constitutional process and does not bring it back to the beginning. Many of the reflections that have been made this morning, even the one on the constituent Assembly, what do they realize, in fact, if a return? This is not what the whole Democratic Party wants, nor who has the sensitivity to understand the urgency of a reform of the institutions that is evident in all respects to those who have the awareness that a democracy that does not work is the door to totalitarianism and totalitarian forms. A democracy that works, however, is a guarantee of democracy: from this point of view, the need to have a ruling democracy in Italy comes from the evolution of the institutions, from the responsibility that political forces have matured in this field and from the strong need that this country has to have stability of government, a responsible majority and the conditions for which it can face the issue of the Government through its proposals, being able to bring them to the bottom and being able to define them, once called to confront the voters, in the successive electoral elections. It is certainly a process that moves in the logic of overcoming a proportional system, which in this country has not yet been overcome, and of consociativism, and in the sense of achieving a truly free parliamentary and democratic game, in which everyone has his responsibilities and is called to make politics and strategy, but not tactics. It is the tactic, in fact, that denies politics, while the country needs and invokes politics with capital P, in order to face the merit of problems, and not parliamentary tactics. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u90	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aracri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u91	(16.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u92	Mr President, in fact, the speeches made by some of my previous speakers would give some consideration. We also take part in this rite - which I do with a smile on my lips - in the sense that, having not voted on the constitutional reforms last time, I have no embarrassment whatsoever. Of course, we are hiding here now and the sides are made: no intervention will be able to convince the other side. It is a rite in which we participate and we will clearly do our part. It has already been recalled that the type of reform that we proposed at the time, which only partially resembles - and remotely - what is proposed here, has been authoritatively marked: President Mattarella, then Member of Parliament, has been mentioned, but also in more recent times, Senator Tocci himself in this House had to say: We try to be honest with ourselves: if this reform had proposed it the center-right, we would have occupied the squares. I understand that some of the friends and colleagues of the PD may be resented when friends and colleagues from other groups point out some passages that are not exactly democratically correct. I don't want to teach anyone about democracy, but of course those who used to be the Communist party's followers who took Russia's money, ended up in the hands of a jumper who is good at selling pots. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] And here some of my colleagues are right to say that this is no longer a right-wing and left-wing issue. It is clear that this is a fake reform; as, moreover, it has been pretended that of the Provinces, which is of no use at all. The Court of Auditors itself has written and testified that it will cost more than it did in the past. This is a fake reform. And I think it's also quite useless to play it in a point of law, because every one of us, who in his heart little knows the right as an unwitting law student, knows that the stuff we're doing in here can't be done. When you aim to change the rules, you have to observe the ones that are there. But we are used to seeing the Constitution, repeatedly invoked, put under our feet. We are used to the vote of confidence, even if someone - I am talking about the Florentine cheat - came in here and in the newspapers - so much the Aules attend them little and, when he comes here, plays with the television set - said that he would never resort to the votes of trust for the people, the Assemblies, etc. I do not believe that this debate will lead to any positive outcome. Of course, I am concerned because this fake reform - as has been mentioned, it goes along with the Italicum affair and goes along with the aforementioned case of the Provinces - has a red thread and, that is, push the citizens to the margins and prevent them from expressing themselves on the mechanism of operation of the State and on their representations. And this maneuver is accompanied by what has been put on the field in financial matters where, of course, we do not tackle the real issues of unemployment and the savings of Italians, which in three years has been taxed by 130% more. Depending on the audience ahead, it promises everything and more, but in the financial field we notice a series of maneuvers. Just see the one related to the popular banks, wanted to allow the big financial groups to enter that world and manage 38 percent of the Italian savings. You want to try to change the assets of this Italy. Now that left of which we all read in the school books, the left that defended the poor and the proletariat, is no longer there. There is a banking, financial and salon left. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Simeoni]] It is no coincidence that this maneuver passes through the classrooms where a President of the Council plays strictly not elected by the Italians, like the two previous ones. I want to see who has the courage to say: dear Italians, this is the reform and who wants the vote. I want to see how many Italians would vote for this filth. [[Applause from Senator Volpi]] Now it may become useless, but we say so anyway. How is it possible, among other things, not to notice how recently it has been approved here? This fake reform created a sort of after-work of regional councillors, a misguided duplication of the State-Regions Conference. This reform then, returned here, having been taken away the word equally, means that what concerns the world of self-government is relegated to a House that is something that drifts along. The Chamber, however, clearly for the numbers in the field, is predominant, also in relation to the election of the judges of the Constitutional Court. This has also been changed: before it was a relationship of three to two; now it will be the House that will elect. So in this case, too, we are competing to form a picture where we want to bring a list, a man or someone to the government of the nation. As has been mentioned, the maneuver is not the reform of Italy, but it serves to see how certain groups can take possession of the State, its operations and mechanisms, to the face of the Italians. I don't think this stuff is gonna help our Italy. But, moreover, of Italy and of the Italians we have abundant evidence that this gentleman does not give a damn. I would have liked that, besides going to America, buying a plane with the money of the Italians, this gentleman had gone to India to defend our Maròs, which he and the government, like the previous ones, have been careful to do. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] But it'll go on. I'm waiting for voting day. If at the time we had opened the merchant factory you are doing, I dare not imagine what would have happened. I want to see how many colleagues will continue in the work of useful idiots to a government of... Decency prevents me from saying how I feel about this government. I want to see what they will do, I want to see the tactical absences, those that day will be sick and above all I want to see what the next day they will look like outside these classrooms, on the sidewalks, compared to that story that is simply called reality. For the rest - as I said yesterday - let's see how this strange cinema ends. See you at the vote. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u93	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that speaking in this general debate tastes a little strange, because these are speeches that we have made on many occasions and which are also pursued in many other forums - for example in the newspapers - where exploitation often prevails and merit disappears. Together, in this House, we often witness moments in which they are broadcast of the exercises of obstructionism and confrontation on what can be the ways to make impossible the management of the work and their continuation, trying to face what is our duty and our task, that have assigned us the Italians and that we have assumed, all of us, the day that we applauded the election of President Napolitano in common session in the House. At that moment, I believe that we have made a commitment and we have all understood, Chamber and Senate, MPs and senators, that this legislature could not be lost and could not be useless, but it had the very strong need to restore credibility to politics, showing that it is able to decide, take responsibility and give back to the country and citizens the feeling that the rule that prevails, and that has always prevailed in this country, today is no longer valid. What is this rule? It's the referral. Our democracy has always found a solution to the problems, which has always been, however, the postponement [[Comments of Senator Airola]] It has always been the need to carry the problems forward, never to go deeper in matters, never to find the strength and the ability to take responsibility before the citizens, because we would have returned, the fault would have been no one's fault and we could have returned to the citizens saying that it is true that we had said that we would do things, but that we did not succeed because it was another's fault. No, we are trying to take responsibility for the citizens today, because we have promised things and we have made commitments. And the next time we come back to them, we will say that we have fulfilled those commitments and that we have done things, certainly with all the difficulties, with all the necessities and all the limits that are also ours. Like all human persons, we have, in fact, the need to take into account many situations. But I believe that this is the most important and strong commitment we have before us, and it is our responsibility. You see, we're not changing the Senate in terms of adding or subtracting skills from what we do today. This is not a thought of mine, but President Napolitano has said it in general debate in the Commission. I think this should be emphasized, because we are doing something new. Here everyone intervenes on what the current Senate does with respect to the new Senate and on what are the changes regarding the competences that we have today. But these skills have largely demonstrated their limitations within the configuration of equal bicameralism. Today we do something different: we go towards a substantial monocameralism, to which we add a new Chamber called the Senate (the same way), with which we try to gather the reality of a articulation of local and territorial institutions that in recent years has been abundantly structured. It has become important to have a positive relationship with central power, in a relationship that is not only made up of competences defined by the Constitution, which are important and on which we have gone to work, but also of the definition of new legislative procedures, in which representatives of the territories and political ones intervene jointly. This is the essence of the work that we are doing and it seems to me so important and high that it cannot be disappointed with the expectations that there are and also the reality of our country. Today, many people use the subject, which we have already heard in various speeches, that rather than setting up such a Senate, it would be better to close it. I believe that it would be a very serious sign of surrender, because we must take into account with force the articulation of the institutional reality of our country, which is made up of Municipalities and Regions. So what, in my opinion, is the fundamental objective of this reform which, among others, is particularly close to my heart? It is the reduction of scissors in our country, which we have already reduced and are also reducing through other reforms, which also receive very harsh judgments. To reform public administration means precisely to have the objective of restoring homogeneity to the country and reducing scissors. Doing the reform of the third sector means freeing up the positive energies distributed throughout the country. Making labour reform means putting our country in a position to have positive opportunities, from this point of view, in all parts of its territory. To establish the Senate of the Regions today means to create a place where these scissors can be reduced and tackled in a positive way, thanks to the constant confrontation by representatives from the Regions and cities. I believe that this is a matter of the country's competitiveness, democracy, equality and solidarity. Therefore, we must understand the importance of constitutional reforms, with reference to these aims and objectives, which represent the fundamental point for our country. We cannot be a country cut in half, with realities that go to 100 per hour and others that are still or even go back, trusting in the fact that so much then the mathematical average thinks of returning a total growth index, composed of the superpositive indices that are recorded in some parts of the country and other negatives, up to a figure of average growth of 0.7%. We must be able to restore hope to our country, which is born from politics, from the ability to represent the territories and to put in the field decision-making dynamics capable of giving concrete answers. I believe that on this point we can regain awareness and space for a confrontation that leads us to assess points of encounter that make us strongly express support for this reform. I believe that the citizens we meet - all of us often meet them and no one has the exclusive prerogative or privilege to meet them, because we all represent them and have points of reference - or at least the many that I meet, are asking us to make a qualitative leap to our country, also through a taking of responsibility on the part of politics. I would just like to add a few points: it is clear that we are also experiencing contradictory aspects in this debate. In many situations there are elements that make us understand that everything we do must be measured in a parliamentary, political and party dialectic. It is often in these comparisons that contradictions arise, which are then used and agitated in many cases in an instrumental way. However, I believe that the examples we have are showing us, in parallel, how much what we are proposing is actually tested on the ground and is largely part of an awareness of the citizens and of a widespread democratic identity that makes me say that, at the end of the day, ours is a mature democracy, that citizens are mature to face this kind of state organisation. This is what we see, for example, in the municipalities, where citizens vote for the mayor, who governs for five years, with a full mandate and a capacity to address the problems of the local community, often much closer to the needs of individual citizens, with a dynamic considered largely positive by all political forces. An example of great coherence from this point of view is that of the 5 Star Movement, which in the provincial elections never showed up, did not make lists. So when this constitutional reform abolishes the Provinces, we do something that in fact the 5 Star Movement has long considered right, so right that it does not participate in the elections. With regard to municipalities and regions, however, there is a full awareness of the high level of maturity of citizenship and institutions, because we work and use the tools we need to give life to these institutions and to these democratically elected fora with forms that allow the governability and implementation of the programmes, so that we can return to the citizens to ask for their judgment of confirmation or disapproval. These are the systems that allow us to return competitiveness to our country, to make a time leap with respect to modernity, compared to other countries, that we see today with which ability and timeliness they can face problems also very important. This means getting out of the logic of the emergency, it means giving oneself some strategies and having the possibility, with this reform, to put the institutions and the politics in condition, I do not say to stand before the processes and to govern them fully, because the world is globalized and there are wide margins of uncontrollableness, but to take a great step forward in terms of the adequacy and modernization of our country, regarding the commitments and the duties that the political class has towards the citizens, the enterprises and the families. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u95	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scilipoti Isgro'. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I had prepared a speech, but in the light of what I have heard in this House today, I will speak with my arms, making some reflections that do not start from my head, but from what I have heard in this House. Many members of the Democratic Party say that democracy on their part has always been respected, that the rules of the game must always be kept clear at 360 degrees. My question is simple: why has the Commission not finished its work and everything has automatically gone into this House? Some say that everything has gone inside the House because there have been some people in the Commission who have not allowed constructive reforms to be discussed and pursued, that is, they have not made any useful proposals. But I have always heard and appreciated some of my colleagues from the PD and I have also heard Mrs Lo Moro several times in this House, who, by intervening, tried to make contributions, within the parliamentary dialectic, so that something useful could be achieved in the interests of the country. Yet the PD has been held accountable as a person who creates problems and difficulties. Then, as a simple citizen, Mr Boschi, I wonder whether it is normal to suppress dialectic. I address Minister Boschi... (Minister Boschi converses with Senator Liuzzi). I turn to Mr Boschi... I address Mr Boschi... I understand that you do not have any answers, because you cannot give them at this time, but even outside this House it would be difficult to respond with tranquillity, serenity and with the grace that you have in normal life. The attitude you have taken towards Mr Lo Moro cannot be justified, nor are some of the statements and some of the reflections you have made on the behaviour of some of the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs characterised by the lack of political will to resolve and advance the work within that Commission. I would like to address Mr Boschi but also my colleagues here. It is normal that there is no possibility within the Commission of discussing how to force everything into this House and say to the House: "Who's in, and who's not in, means he's out, and consequently has no right to speak? Why am I making this reflection, Minister Boschi? Because yesterday, a party colleague of yours, the PD, made a statement of this kind: I vote because the party has ordered me; by order of stables I will vote for this reform; by order of stables I will support this reform, but I am not convinced of it, indeed I personally judge it not useful for the country. This, Minister Boschi, ladies and gentlemen, is extremely serious, and we should tell the citizens that the interests of the parties are many times stronger than the interests of the country, so it is true that the statements of some MPs of the PD in this House are as follows: I vote because I am asked, because my party obliges me to take a certain position, and then I will vote in favour of what the party asks me against the interests of the country, against the interests of my children, against the interests of the Italians. Mr Boschi, I believe that you should question whether what has been said in this House is true or not, because if it were to be true, it would be shameful. It would be shameful for the government, but even more shameful for parliamentarians who choose to vote in the interest of the party because they are obliged by it to vote for a reform that is not acceptable and that they know will not be useful for the country. It is less shameful for those who force them. I see that there are great lawyers in this Parliament: large in size, someone even intellectually. Politicians are great and when I hear them talk I almost fall in love with fellow Members who talk about democracy and say that the rules of the game must be respected. When calls come from the 5 Star Movement, from Forza Italia or other colleagues to respect the rules, they listen as a merchant, cannot hear and justify saying anything else but not intervening on the specific topic. Mr President, Minister, who in this Parliament is opposed to reforms? None of us. We are for the reforms, but we are for the useful reforms and in the interest of the country. We are for reforms that could be useful to make this country grow and re-establish the rules of the game that have disappeared in the last five years. Dear Minister Boschi, surrounded by two colleagues from the Democratic Party who are perhaps giving you some suggestions to better understand my speech, I ask you a question: have you read anything about Goldoni, about Harlequin? He said: not even a Harlequin can serve two masters. You, Minister Boschi, with your President-in-Office and with the Democratic Party, must oblige future senators and regional councillors at the same time to serve two masters. Yet, dear leader of the Democratic Party Zanda, you have sometimes explained to us that parliamentary work, particularly that of the Senator, is a very difficult job, that time is little and, consequently, there is some difficulty in exploring it at its best. How, then, can a future senator hold the office of senator of the Republic and, at the same time, of regional adviser and have the time to work seriously? I cannot understand it, and then I address you, great wise men, and you with a mustache, great intellectual colleague of the PD; You explain it to me, how you do two jobs, both heavy and hard, and how you practice them well. Perhaps, like some of his friends, he does not do well either business in the private or activity in the public. I am making this reflection, dear Senator friends, because since I became a Member of Parliament I have abandoned my profession because I have listened to many of my colleagues who are inside the ranks of the left and the Democratic Party, who said that two jobs cannot be done; we had to choose either to be a Member or a Doctor; or to be a Member or a lawyer. I have listened to you, I have put into effect what you suggested (and which you suggest over and over again), but today you are taking to a vote with which tomorrow you will deliver a Senate with a representation made by senators who will have the double job and the double assignment. Unless, dear Minister Boschi, your friend, President-in-Office of the Council, thinks of setting up an after-work, perhaps railway or senatorial post-work (I do not know how better we can say not to create difficulties in the interpretation of the word). I listened, even from my room, colleagues who until a few days ago or until a few months ago were inside Forza Italia and made some reflections, saying that some choices of Forza Italia that were made in the past were wrong. We all make mistakes and we all do the right things; the important thing is to realize it. If you realize a wrong path, each of us gets back on the highway. Of course, dear friend and colleague, you who consider yourself a great intellectual can also make a reflection, telling me that once I was electrocuted on the road to Damascus. Yes, it is true, when a mechanism for Italy's surrender by some political forces to the deviant economic powers that came from Oltralpe was being put in place - as it was then done. Then he shouted at the scandal saying that it wasn't true, but, by chance, in 2011 we then handed over the country to a character who, from a political point of view, was not me and I still didn't like it and who bears the name of Monti. And soon after we handed Italy over to other characters who were never elected as representatives of the people. We even arrived at a character named Matteo Renzi, who was not only elected to Parliament, but was not even old enough to enter the Senate of the Republic. Yet for many it was not serious, because they thought it was normal, but it was and is serious because, as Renzi showed at the time, today too shows that he does not have the sense of balance and mediation that a President of the Council should have. Today we are talking; we have very few left in this House because everyone has run away, they have been in a hurry, not only among the benches of Forza Italia - perhaps someone of Forza Italia is in fact missing - but the biggest haste was that of colleagues representing the majority. It is not that I can count well, but, by the nose, counting briefly, there will be about 35 MPs of the Democratic Party; the others may be studying the speech they will have to make in the Chamber in a few minutes. Connect Mirabelli, you laugh, but there's not much to laugh about. MIRABELLI (PD). But there's only you from Forza Italia! ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Surely your children will cry when there is not a President-in-Office of the Council named Matteo Renzi but another President who may be even more derogatory than he currently plays that role. Having said that, I would like to enter into the substance of all the reflections that have been made today, ladies and gentlemen; reflections, made by Forza Italia, by the 5 Star Movement, which are already trying to restore the rules of the game: let's put everything back in the Commission? But can it be done? Anything can be done; since we have deleted the rules of democracy we could also make a forced move: resume everything and send the text to the Commission, seriously discuss it and, after serious discussion within the Commission, bring it back to the House. But since, dear colleague Mancuso, what I am proposing is impossible, I could make another proposal. I understand you're already smiling because you think it's useless, but I'm doing it anyway. My proposal is to debate within this House, listen to those who think otherwise and find something useful to include in this great reform that we should approve. You rightly laugh, friend Mancuso, because you know perfectly well that everything is already established; you know perfectly well that everything has already been established by Renzi saying: "You can't change anything and woe to the wind; because the wind is in danger of not being a candidate, the wind is... I can't say what I wanted to say; I'll correct the shot a bit: the wind will not only not be a candidate, but can no longer be a representative of the PD or of the new coalition that should be born, from which that a little terrorist wing of the PD should remain outside. Attention, then, to your behavior, because it must be linear, clear and faithful. I say faithful; I do not suggest to myself how the dog, my colleague Mancuso, did not mean this; I meant faithful in general, from a political point of view. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Scilipoti, speak to the Presidency, because I see that Mr Mancuso is too busy. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). As he suggested the word "dog" to me, according to the faithful-dog combination, I immediately made it clear that it had nothing to do with it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But Senator Mancuso might have been talking out loud alone. He wasn't mad at her. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Faithful yes, but I meant politically; not as faithful as the dog can be to the master. Since we do not even have the strength to argue in this House or outside, a little comparison could also be appropriate. Mr President, we have also seen - I do not know if you will allow me to use it, but it is a normal word that is used in politics, without offense to anyone - that someone in the majority is intellectually dishonest, because those who are here today, yesterday said plague and horns - and I apologise for the expression - towards President Berlusconi, saying the strangest things in the world, that it was not possible for people like Berlusconi to be in politics because they were implementing a coup, that is, they were applying within the parliamentary classrooms a method that was not democratic, it was not orthodox. Yet these people who claimed democracy yesterday and accused President Berlusconi today behave, not as President Berlusconi did then, but worse (according to the judgment they gave, mine is completely different). We must therefore say that from an intellectual point of view we could not and cannot reward them, but we must use this word: intellectual dishonesty. It is an intellectual dishonesty that will hardly be erased, because what you are about to do today will remain in history, which will judge, ladies and gentlemen, those who in this House wanted to make a serious, true, real contribution in the interests of the country and those who are going to make a non-serious and non-constructive contribution. (Following ISGRO SHILIPOTS'). Dear Member of Parliament, reading in the newspapers that you get to grant a Presidency of the Commission or a post within the Government, as Undersecretary or otherwise, to have a vote in the Senate House is truly mortifying. MANCUSO (AP (NCD-UDC)). Names! [[Comments from the PD Group.]] The names will come out when we have completed the examination of this constitutional reform. We will begin to see not only the names, but also the behaviors, certainly not orthodox by the Government and PD, which have been implemented for a few days to try to glean some votes. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] Let's go back for a second. I was saying that seeing in the newspapers and realizing that these days we are discussing positions, representations, presidencies and vice-presidents, or positions of government or sub-government to win some extra votes is not very positive and is slightly denigrating (we can also take the word off lightly) for those who actually implement such behavior. There are so many behaviors that we could talk about, but I am going to conclude and ask the Presidency to allow me to deposit the text of my speech, which I did not have time to read because I went arm-by-arm. I shall conclude my reflection by saying that I fully understand that it is pointless to speak in this House. Then why am I talking? I do this because the Member has to speak, the Member has to say what he feels, but I would like to explain something to Mr Boschi, because in a statement he said that it is no longer important for the Member to be elected directly by the people because everything has changed. Dear Minister Boschi, the Member should listen to the territory and transfer its needs within the structure called Parliament (Senate and Chamber). It should look at the territory, listen to its needs, and through inspection union activities and/or legislative proposals, promote them within the Commissions and the House. Today this practice is no longer normal, as normal is to act. I address my colleagues in the Democratic Party with great deference, because their wisdom is always maximum and ours is little: but it is conceivable that you no longer even exercise the role of parliamentarians, because your President-in-Office of the Council prepares everything for you and when there is someone who does not share, or would like to discuss, he does nothing but put trust in the measures and you, like the sheep, come to the Senate House with great delicacy, voting yes to confidence because you are afraid to take a different position from your leader? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes you to attach to the Report the written text of your speech, Senator Scilipoti Isgrò. Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that those who are trying until the last minute to seek constructive dialogue to improve this reform do not have at heart a change in the Constitution aimed at making our political and institutional system more modern. We know that in this House there is almost unanimous agreement on the need to overcome the perfect bicameralism and to put back hand to Title V of Part II of the Constitution. Let me also remind you of the decision of the Constitutional Court which declared the electoral law by which we were elected unconstitutional and which should have pushed the majority, even more than under normal conditions, to seek the maximum possible parliamentary consensus before intervening on the Constitution. The majority of a party, representing a minority of citizens, blackmailing its parliamentarians with the threat of early elections, instead gave itself the right to amend more than forty articles of the Constitution, without any parliamentary mandate, since no one in this House had presented himself to the electorate by carrying out these proposals. This is the lowest moment of parliamentary legitimacy in republican history, which produces the most radical change of the founding rule of the State: a profound reform of the Constitution promoted with a government bill, a substantial change in the structure of the institutions of our country and the legislative process imposed on the initiative of the Government, without allowing a real parliamentary dialectic. The arrogance of the government has also manifested itself in the way in which the amendment of the Constitutional Charter was presented to the Italians, that is, as if the work of the constituent Fathers (the point of keeping our institutions in the darkest moments of our republican history and also in this moment of ethical and moral breakdown of our ruling class) were to be considered as the real brake on the development of our country, or as if to assemble quickly and fury a proposal for revision that would fish disorderly from the constitutional debate of recent decades was the only way and last opportunity to rehabilitate politics in the eyes of the citizens, elevating the rhetoric of the good time to political project. In fact, in recent years our Constitution has already had to undergo several good times: unshared changes, dictated by the fashions of the moment or by imperatives dropped from across borders, which have been systematically and subsequently repudiated by its reformers fathers (I am thinking of the principle of budgetary balance, which has been repudiated precisely by those who have decided to insert it into the Constitution). They are mainly reforms approved by government majorities on input from the Executives, in forced stages and compressing as much as possible the parliamentary confrontation (just like this one we are discussing), which the opposition of turn has from time to time criticized in the contents and even more harshly in the ways, except then act in the same way once to the Government. However, let us come to the merits of the reform. Even before any political assessment of the choices made by the Government, what I personally find most serious is the lack of coherence of the reformer system analysed in its entirety. I think we lack the courage of our ideas, provided that the ideas were clear in the minds of the proposers. The general system and the intentions are acceptable but there are many areas of possible improvement. Let's start with the composition and functions of the new Senate. As is well known, in comparative law, the preference for the Senate of the autonomous is functional to the valorization of the territorial authorities; it is the typical configuration of the federal states. However, in this text, it is proposed that this model be adopted at the time of the deepest crisis of regionalism. The logic would invite us to think that there is therefore the will to reverse the course, that is, relaunching the regional autonomy, but instead the reform of Title V moves with the explicit purpose to reduce the weight of these agencies. What is not understood is how this process of centralization of the functions of Title V can then agree with a composition of the Senate that places regional councillors and mayors at the centre. The disconnect between the composition and the functions could not be more evident. As supported by numerous constitutionalists, we cannot even speak for the new Senate of institutional representation as the new fifth paragraph of Article 55 of the Constitution states: The Senate of the Republic represents the territorial institutions of the Republic. In fact, unlike in Germany - which is a model in this sense - we do not have in this bill the three conditions necessary for us to be able to speak of representation of the territorial institutions: the choice of the senators by the local government, which appoints and revokes them; there is no unitary vote of all the senators of the same Region, and the respect of the directives issued by the local governments. Only in this way is the institution as such represented in the senatorial organ. In this reform, however, there is no representation of the body, but rather the representation of the local political class or national parties in their territorial conformation is safeguarded. If you opt instead for a second political chamber, as will most likely be the new Senate, then we should elect it directly and not invent a mechanism that diminishes its legitimacy. The fact is that you have to imagine an institution that serves a purpose, that leads to maximize performance compared to that purpose, and you have to organize it accordingly. The bicameralism that is proposed to us, on the other hand, risks being something unformed, with a high Chamber composed of regional councillors and mayors through service, weak and conditioned by political divisions, unable to bring the local institutions to cooperate in the legislative phase with the national institutions. It is therefore not said that mediation between different principles has been sought. There is no search for the right means, there are no worries of setting valid counterweights, there is simply and only an incoherent mess, which finds its perfect fulfillment in having expected to leave the former Presidents of the Republic to sit next to councilors and mayors. Even in the legislative process there are very questionable choices such as that of entrusting to a second-degree Assembly, such as the Senate that is emerging, the possibility of blocking any constitutional reform, as it is envisaged to have equal competence over constitutional laws. If the Senate were directly elected, such a competence would be justified, but it is not reasonable to assign the competence of the Constitutional Review to a Senate elected in second instance. Only in the fully federal states are the second Chambers representing the territories involved in the process of constitutional revision, and also in France, where the Senate votes on constitutional laws, there is the possibility of overcoming a possible blocking of the Senate through the indictment of a referendum by the President of the Republic. We are therefore faced with a potential blockage of the Senate to proposals for reform chosen and voted by citizens through political elections. Instead, in the event of a resolution of the state of war, the House of Deputies alone is left with the burden of making such a choice. At least we're not kidding about war. We do not understand why not also involve the Upper House, as happens practically everywhere, also because the electoral law can allow a small minority in the country to be a majority in the Chamber of Deputies. The electoral law that also remains at the mercy of the majority who can change it as he thinks best. It is right that national electoral legislation should be included in the bicameral field of equality. It would also be a way of meeting European recommendations on good electoral practice which call for electoral laws to be higher than ordinary laws. Well, on the other hand, with regard to the legislative procedure, with the abolition of the "blocked vote" which represented a mortification of Parliament in favour of a strengthening of the prerogatives of the Government, deeply affecting the constitutional balance. The other amendments which have increased, even in relation to the current text, the guarantees of minorities, I am referring in particular to the increase in the quorum for the election of the President of the Republic (although from the eighth election onwards it would be desirable to remain on the majority of those entitled to vote, instead of falling to the three fifths of the voters). A final consideration on the legislative procedure, which also applies to the changes made to Title V: the reform we are discussing promised simplification and slimming down. With regard to simplicity, instead, we are faced with a proliferation of different legislative procedures: bicameral laws, monocameral laws with possible intervention of the Senate, laws with reinforced intervention of the Senate, laws of budget and accounting, drafts of law at certain date, conversion of decrees-laws. With regard to slimming down, if we proceed with a substantially single-chamber system, unless we double the work of the Chamber of Deputies, it remains very questionable whether we have a higher productivity than the two Chambers that work full-time at the same time. The reform of Title V, of a highly centralist nature, also set itself the objective of simplification aimed at reducing the constitutional litigation and conflict between the institutions. However, when transferring the entries in the current third paragraph of Article 117 (on shared competence) to the list of exclusive State jurisdiction, the limitation to general and common provisions only applies in several areas. In this way, it seems that there is competition between general and common state provisions and the detailed rules of the Regions, which very closely recalls the current distribution provided for in Article 117 of the Constitution. There is also a multiplicity of wordings on the legislative determinations of state competence. Therefore, on the one hand, the limitation to general and common provisions and, on the other hand, the introduction of unknown categories to constitutional jurisprudence risk emptying of content the elimination of competing competences and, on the other hand, increasing the litigation, as new interpretative problems arise. Another serious contradiction is that the reform does not initially apply to regions with special status. The logic becomes the centralization for the ordinary regions and the conservation and differentiation for the regions with special status. Finally, there is concern that the subject of coordination of public finance and the tax system has been brought back into the exclusive competence of the State. According to some, this will have the effect of legitimizing the linear cuts that the Constitutional Court, precisely by virtue of the fact that it is a competing matter, considered to have a limited effect over time. There is a risk of legitimizing a form of government of public expenditure which is based on the most de-responsibilitying mechanism for both the state and the local authorities, such as the linear cut. Ultimately, the reform fulfills its purpose and presents elements that can be shared and innovative; however, the innovations in the text are not always acceptable and many contradictions remain. We should have discussed all these contradictions and found solutions together, because we are talking about the Constitution, which, as we always say, belongs to everyone. Perhaps together we would have found the courage to do more, also to reduce the number of Members in order to make the relationship between the two Chambers more balanced and to cut the costs of politics further. We could have done more from the point of view of participatory and direct democracy, inserting instruments that are present in other European countries, and correcting, as well as Title V, also the rule on balance of budget. We should have discussed all this with the citizens, including through the media, informing them. For months, however, we have been witnessing an excessive controversy about this reform text that divides idolaters, on the one hand, from apocalyptic ones, on the other hand: on the one hand, those who accuse anyone who wants to propose improvements to be a brake and an owl; on the other hand, those who exploit the direct election of senators to vent internal tensions to the party or the majority, evoking risks for our democracy if the reform is approved. I very much hope that if this reform comes to the end of its path, democracy will not be undermined (and I do not see a great threat to democracy). In all cases, since we have about two weeks to discuss the amendments in this House, I hope that there will be a serious debate, which will try to accept the various corrections that the parties are asking for, so that this bill can be improved. Then the time will not be longer, as far as the subsequent readings of this constitutional design are concerned. I hope that there will be a debate on this matter and that we will be able to improve this bill, which can be improved, in order to overcome this impasse and thirty years of desired change in bicameralism. [[Applause from Senators Corsini and Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u98	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u99	Madam President, today the President-in-Office of the Council (who is the one who decides the agenda of the House and the Senate and of course, as is legitimate, but only in this last case, of the Council of Ministers) said that it is time to discuss constitutional reform in substance: it is not really the case to deepen technicalism, as if the Constitution were a technicalism. The Constitution was written in a year and a half, not just by unsubstantiated people. Frankly, if I look at those who write it today and think of the comparison with those who worked in 1946 and 1947 I put my hands in my hair; but every epoch must do what is at its time and perhaps one day, in theory, some of today's statesmen will have the stature that we attribute to those constituent Fathers today. Frankly, I doubt it. The President-in-Office of the Council today summed up this reform with a slogan. He said: less politicians and more politics. It is true that there will be fewer politicians. There will be about two hundred less senators, a result that would already be there since 2008 if in 2006 a coalition - which I could now call conservative, in the sense that it wanted to maintain the old Constitution, led by Oscar Luigi Scalfaro, former President of the Republic and Senator for life, and by the President of the Province of Florence Matteo Renzi - had not made a crusade to maintain the old number of parliamentarians, the old system, the perfect bicameralism and so on. So, thanks to Renzi and those who made the referendum campaign in 2005, we will only be 12 years behind something on which we would all agree, although obviously always having some thrill because the parliamentarians who talk about reducing the number of parliamentarians think they can be among those reduced and not among those who remain. The sense of responsibility, however, meant that we voted on it in 2005, we voted on it last parliamentary term and we also supported the path for a while. Less politicians are true; more regional advisers in Rome are also true, but I do not think they have given this exceptional proof, and I would say that the feeling of anti-politics is very fueled by the problems that have occurred in the Regional Councils, which are not to be underestimated, but not even to be generalized. There is an article in this constitutional reform that I find grotesque. I am referring to what is said that regional councillors must not earn more than the mayor of their region. The Constitution is subject to decisions that are partly due to the law and partly to determinations of a municipality, sometimes even small, which is the capital of a region. Among the capitals of the Region there is Aosta, which has 30,000 inhabitants and, therefore, I believe that the mayor does not have this treatment and these responsibilities that, however, any mayor has, also that of the Municipality of 100 inhabitants. In any case, the mayor of Aosta has less work than the mayor of Rome capital, which has almost three million inhabitants. But we uniform and for Aosta and Rome everything is the same. The important thing is to do something fat demagogic. Well: fewer senators elected by the people, more regional advisers elected by other regional councillors, who come to pretend to be senators. The problem is where it is said that there will be more politics; more politics yes, but made by non-political. Do you read who already writes them today? All this talk is made of the shuttle of a provision that goes from the House to the Senate, then the Senate modifies it, then returns to the House, which changes a comma and then the provision returns again to the Senate. This is academy; we know very well that it is academy when it comes to this. Today, in fact, 95% of the measures are made by decree-law; it was 80 percent a few years ago, then with the passage to the Monti Government, not elected by anyone, it has gone to 90 percent and therefore with the passage to the Renzi Government, not elected by anyone, we have reached 95 percent. How long does it take for a decree-law to be effective? One day. Is it a long day? Is it in those twenty-four hours that the fate of our country has been played or that we have not been able to propose the right recipes to our country, perhaps because we did not want to discuss them either with the majority or with the opposition? In any case the decree-law is concluded within sixty days; but it is in force immediately. The changes made by Parliament, in 90% of cases (and I am cautious), are changes requested by the Government itself, perhaps with the signature of some senator to avoid having to submit the technical report to the amendment (obligatory fact, when the amendment is submitted by the Government). Within sixty days, then, the law of the provision is converted into law. Today the average time gap between when the Government, in its wisdom, decides to do one thing and when the thing is law is equal to twenty-four hours (the time of publication in the Official Journal). To say that this is the problem of this country means to divert the problem. The problem is that obviously wrong measures have been taken. In these four years of unelected governments, unemployment has increased by over one million people, i.e. one million people who were working yesterday and who are not working today. Public debt has increased by over 300 billion euros: this means thousands of euros, 6,000 euros for every citizen. In these four years every citizen, even children, even the unemployed, even the elderly with the minimum pension, have accumulated at their expense 6,000 euros of extra debt. At the same time, however, one might think that taxes may have been reduced. Unemployment increases and debt increases: it is seen that the state has had a bit of a broad hand and has reduced taxes. No, taxes have increased by about 30 billion. Only under the Renzi Government, there have been six billion more taxes on savings, billion more on pension funds and a few billion taxes on the house (it is difficult to quantify, because it is all downloaded to municipalities and local authorities). The problem is that these filthy measures that have led to these results have not been taken fast enough? No, the problem is that they were adopted too quickly. Let's take an example: on December 6, 2011 the so-called "Save Italy" decree-law was launched, which was actually the "Azzoppa Italia." Those who voted for it - among them, alas, I too - were faced with an alternative. That government, the Monti Government, thought that speed and its supreme wisdom were much better than talking about things in Parliament. The alternative was to choose between dropping the government or voting for that stuff there, with the monstrosity of exodus inside. Are there even bigger problems in this country? Sure. The exodus was around half a million, while the unemployed were several million. Yes, but the exodus have been exodus by law, while the unemployed will be the result of wrong policies, but they are not volunteers, it is not that overnight they have become unemployed by law. Instead, those from one day to the next became exodus by law. Why? Because the government wanted to do things quickly (just with these steps!). Well, although there are two Houses, there was hardly any discussion in the Commissions, where some remedy to the written nonsense was also brought. On the other hand, it was not possible to discuss the matter in this House because of the issue of trust. The alternative for parliamentarians was not to vote on that save Italy or vote on another save Italy more reasonable, but it was between voting that or voting nothing, with all the media saying that, without that measure, there would be the default for Italy, so what we saw in Greece would happen in Italy. Of this I frankly doubt, but this was told and precisely thanks to the speed of the government it approved this filthy filth, which gave rise to a situation that led to the results that I recalled: 300 billion euros more debt, one million more unemployed and tens of billions more taxes. All this happened thanks to speed. The problem is that with this reform the laws would no longer be debated in the light of the sun, in Parliament, perhaps making the great effort to take even sixty days - think! - to convert a decree-law, which is already effective immediately. So, this genius that the government tells us, it's effective right now. By approving the constitutional reform, there would be no longer even the limited examination of today, but you would have directly the officials of the Ministry who write the texts, of course by including how wiser they are at the head. However, since they rarely know the territory, this would have little to do with the reality of the country, or would only have to do with the reality of large and not small companies. There would be a thousand examples to make, but this is not the right time. So, there would be no confrontation with the country, with the people who represent it and with the people. Who, then, could carry out this function? The Ministers, who are rightly engaged in government activity, the officials of the Ministry, who rightly stand in Rome and in the Ministries to work, or the parliamentarians? Members could do so, but they must be excluded. Officials would therefore write the texts, but officials do not always know everything and are not always insensitive to certain interests, as the Government is not always insensitive. Shall we give some examples? They come to tell us about the savings that will have to be reduced by two hundred units the number of parliamentarians. In fact, the savings will probably be around 40 million euros. Let's broaden and consider a saving of about sixty million euros per year: well, the only provision of article 5 of the so-called decree Unlock Italy, for the extension of the motorway concessions, contains a gift made to billionaires, with the money of the Italians [[Applause from the SenatorsBulgarelli, Minzolini, Rizzotti and Scilipoti Isgrò]] , which is at the expense of the competitiveness and well-being of the citizens, who would like to travel to Italy, perhaps to visit relatives, but who find themselves paying rates that are five times higher than those corresponding to the maintenance of motorways. For motorways there is not only maintenance: there is also construction, but it must be paid in the years of concession. When there is an extension, the construction is no longer there and only profit remains. It has been calculated that this measure gives a figure of 16 billion euros to people, companies and companies, who have never won a race to get that concession. Today there are only two motorway routes assigned by concession: we are waiting to know the result of this race, because it has not yet been communicated. All the others are instead the result of the purchase of shares or disposals, never of a contest. The sum of EUR 16 billion was calculated by a voice expert. Info, which by the way is a think tank near the left. It is therefore EUR 16 billion and then we are talking about a saving of EUR 40 million. When there are 16 billion euros going around, you can also do the virtuous and abolish the financing of parties, because those who put their hands on a part of that money are happy that others have nothing, since they are already funding themselves. As it happens, the main beneficiaries of these measures are among the first to arrive at the financing dinners of the Democratic Party [[Applause from Senators Bulgarelli, Rizzotti and Scilipoti Isgrò]] But those have escaped: what do you want it to be 1,000 or 2,000 euros for one that cashes billions of euros. Those go in another way and maybe they need to, when it comes to convincing some senator that he's a little on the edge of whether or not to vote for a reform. Then there are not only profits: there is also the factory of highly privileged places. In these types of companies, which have this kind of secure and guaranteed profits, things can thrive for so many people: there are so many places as director, deputy director, consultant and so on. It is to do these things that we want to keep Parliament on the one hand. Therefore, in the new legislative procedure, the official - subjected to all these beautiful influences, beginning rightly by the Government, who asks him to write the draft law of initiative of the Government and the decrees-laws - will write the provision, which will then be brought to the examination of the only Chamber, because the Senate will be able to give just a "parent". We are going to the Commission in this House, but we must do so quickly. If the Commission breaks up, we do what we are doing right now, that is to say we are jumping the Commission, in open and shameless violation of the Constitution, and we are going to the House, where we put trust and everything is done. Was there a measure like that? Who cares? Yes, the opposition has complained, but if you don't do the setup, pull the confetti and do things like that, the media doesn't even report that someone voted against and we're okay. If there's a problem, what do you do? The press will talk about the wrong policy, so no one is responsible. Who writes the measures that give billions to people who don't really need them is not responsible; the responsibility is of the policy. In this way, however, people are urged not to vote properly, while some fall in love with those politicians who see six, seven, ten or fourteen hours a week on television and in this way the problem is solved. If there is any problem, it is not of those who govern, but of the political, while, if there is a profit, there is someone who puts his hands on it. That is what this is all about, because there will no longer be any counterweight. We at Forza Italia-The People of Liberty XVII Legislature have always been in favour of the direct election of the Head of Government, which for us should also be the President of the Republic, as happens, for example, in the United States and France, both with different mechanisms. In both cases, but especially in the United States - and this is the best known case - against a President with strong powers and a very full popular investiture, there is a Parliament which has its own rules, its specific power and its autonomy. The majority of the Italian Chamber and Senate are not even indirectly chosen by the President who is head of the Executive; they are chosen by voters, through the parties. With this reform we would have a President who, for goodness sake, will not have to deal with the somewhat uncomfortable thing of confrontation with the voters, because he does so by a vote in which Members are apparently voted, so he would have powers totally without a counterweight. The President of the Republic, who traditionally has a role almost only notary, has very little power and however, once his mandate expires, will depend on the party that has a majority in the House, which will allow to overcome even a possible lack of majority in the Senate. Even a third of the Constitutional Court will be prey to this party that may have taken only 25% on the first round. Authorities will also be appointed in part by the Government and in part by Parliament. Of all this we have the certainty, because in these two years the Government has used every kind of force with the instruments already existing. There is no indication that, with more streamlined procedures, the government does not take advantage of it to do even worse, unfortunately with bad results. I am of the opinion that democracy is more valuable than possible efficiency, but here is exactly the opposite: less democracy, less control over debates than people. Even when there is a parliamentary debate there may be scum, but at least we know who said yes and who said no, who opposed and who did not. With this reform the risk is that nothing is known, because in the Commission we do not vote, while in this House we use the vote of confidence, which in itself is not a vote on who is in favour or against a certain measure, but it is the vote to check who is with the government and who is not, we already knew it before. This is exactly the opposite of democracy, of what suits citizens and of what serves the welfare and freedom of a country. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Endrizzi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u100	He's enlisted to speak Senator Borioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u101	Mr President, many of my colleagues, particularly my group, have pointed out in previous speeches that this reform shift is crucial for the life of the country and, I would add, for the experience of this legislature. I believe that none of us has forgotten the very first difficult steps with which this legislature has begun and how, since we are talking about the Constitution, has generated the path that this legislature has undertaken in a sort of constitutive or constituent pact begun in the relationship with the then President of the Republic, today President of the Republic emeritus, our colleague Giorgio Napolitano, who agreed to take on that important and very important task again, committing all of us to run the reforms that we are doing (many have already done them). There is no doubt that this, of all, is the most important and the most relevant. I would add a political consideration. I believe that if we were to fail now - I am speaking at least for the political force to which I have the honour of belonging, but I believe that it is worth a little while for all the political forces that have been in Parliament for some time and which have played important responsibilities towards the country - there would be no one who could have the impudice to appear before the citizens and voters, having failed this step, and to propose in a forthcoming electoral campaign the commitment to carry out constitutional reforms. So it is important to make reforms now. Does this mean that we need to reform whatever we want to reform it? This is not, and therefore personally I am among those who wish and hope that all that can still be brought through the amending activity of improvement to the plant that we already have at our disposal today is desirable and desirable in the interest of the country, safeguarding at the same time those parts that the double reading has delivered to us to give continuity and rationality to a process that we cannot continue to undo. We must reform, we must not reform whatever it is, and I want to spend a few words on it, although I do not subscribe to the vast law of constitutionalists who have flourished a little everywhere these days. I am not an absolute incompetent on this matter, but I think I can make my own judgement here and here: I believe that the reform that we are called upon to debate today and then to vote has a strong connotation of coherence, and gives an effective response to the reasons for which it was intended. I say this in this case by doing some self-consciousness and addressing myself and my fellow adventurers and friends in the Democratic Party in particular. We are celebrating this year the twenty-year anniversary of the fundamental thesis of the Olive tree, among which was the one in which it was said that equal bicameralism must be overcome. Not only was this said, but it was added, almost literally: creating a Chamber of Regions whose members, in the exercise of their parliamentary mandate, continue to carry out (...). What we are discussing today is precisely that, so, at least for the political part to which I am honoured to belong, today we should look with some satisfaction at the fact that we have at hand a landing place to which we have been working for 20 years. We have tried it before and we have not succeeded: all passages that have been remembered on other occasions. I am well aware that the reform we are debating is not just about overcoming the bicameralism of equality, but because that is a bit the subject and in particular that of the elective mechanism of composition, I would also like to say something about this aspect. I certainly do not want to take away the importance and importance of a debate that has seen many of us as protagonists in my Group and in the other groups that are members of the Senate on the subject of direct election and the relationship between direct election and degree of democracy of the new Senate and more generally of the constitutional architecture that we are redesigning. Personally, from this point of view, I express with great frankness an opinion, manifesting the willingness to consider everything that, in the process that remains, it will be possible to do in order to approach and contemperate positions. I think - in line with what I was trying to say in a confused way before - that the element of electivity is certainly relevant, but not directly. On the contrary, I claim to reverence in the drawing I mentioned earlier, which is due to the fundamental thesis of the Olive tree, the idea of a path of exit from the bicameralism paritarian that looked at a functional outcome to give representation, within the framework of the parliamentary architecture so redesigned, to the regions and local institutions and not, mainly and directly, to reiterate the expression and direct representation of the popular will expressed through the vote by universal and direct suffrage, depending on the circumstances, with preference or other. I regard election by universal and direct suffrage as an intangible principle for the formation of the Assemblies entrusted with the representation of the people and the balance of relations between the majority and the opposition, which are necessary today to guarantee governance as well. Among other things, this is a relevant theme for a country like ours, which has experienced a difficult path of governability and a substantial failure of coalition bipolarism (because this is the history that we have behind us, even recently). However, while with regard to the election of the Chamber to which the conferral or revocation of trust is entrusted to the Government and the expression of the political will of the people obviously the principle of election by universal and direct suffrage is intangible, instead, when it comes to identifying the representation of regional and local institutions as a priority, this element can of course be considered and tried to harmonize with the need to express that representation, but it must be taken into account that the representation of regional and local institutions in this case (it is my opinion, of course) must be prevalent and protected. On the other hand, I believe - and I believe that President Emeritus Napolitano said this much better than I did - that repeating on the Senate the same mechanism of direct popular investiture through the vote (a vote, however, oriented through the presentation of party lists) means creating a creature of complex definition to which, in my opinion, it becomes arbitrary, from the point of view of democratic content, not to grant also the faculty of giving or withdrawing confidence. The example and parallel that comes to us from other countries naturally legitimizes the opinion of those who object that this is the case in other countries; however, I think I can say that the comparison with countries of size and rank, even demographic, almost comparable to ours in the rest of Europe (in the United Kingdom, France, Germany) shows that the second House does not derive from a direct election. I would add a remark that, in my opinion, is not secondary and I say so by making a joke. At this juncture it has been used a lot, as an argument - which I consider wrong - to denigrate a Senate made up of representatives elected by the regional councils, a series of accidents, even very serious, in which the regional councils have incurred in recent years. I consider it a mistake because, since we are talking about the Constitution, I remember that there is an article in the Constitution that says that the Republic is constituted by the State, by the Municipalities, by the Regions; in some way, therefore, it is the Constitution that does not establish a principle of subalternity between the different constitutional levels that make up the Republic. Imagine, therefore, a branch of Parliament that, with not completely political functions, but with different functions, gives representation to those bodies that our Constitution defines as constituting the State is a step forward. Therefore, there is not only the problem of reducing costs and simplifying - which is important though - but there is the question that, in my opinion, if not implemented, would lead to an incomplete constitutional dictation, which derives from making the second Chamber of Regions a new Senate that gives representation essentially to this. On the subject of the Regions, President, let me say that I feel a contradiction, because if we think that the Regions themselves are forerunners of evil, and let's say that entrusting the composition of the Senate to the election by the Regional Councils contains a corruptive principle, then, since we are reforming the Constitution, we decide to eliminate the Regions (I say this as a paradox, which I obviously do not agree with). On the other hand, if the Regions are made up of corrupt, corruptable regional councillors - all arguments that have been heard here - and those councillors are elected by the active electoral body through direct universal suffrage, do we think that it is vaccine and protection against corruptive and degenerative phenomena to entrust to that same active electoral body the selection of advisors? I say this not because it demonises universal and direct suffrage but because I see in this a clear contradiction which, in my opinion, risks polluting our reasoning. Returning to what I said at the beginning, I believe that, in the face of this crucial step, we are called - I dare say so - to try every effort to do what is useful to compose the divergent positions, possibly leaving aside that judgment that in my opinion ended up polluting and exasperating the debate, as if the game at stake between two models (both legitimate, for goodness sake), was a game in which we play the start of a new path of democratic reform of the country or, vice versa, a path towards an authoritarian involution. I believe that we need, from this point of view, to give a clear signal to the country. I believe that the regulatory instrument, which we have in our hands at the moment, is certainly amending and improving in my opinion - I repeat - without running into the adventure of reopening those parts that have been acquired and voted on by the parliamentary bodies that are now constituted to represent the citizens. I think that the path that remains to us can be useful in introducing those elements of strengthening also the prerogatives and competences of the Senate, which have been mistakenly eliminated from the House with respect to the reading that had been made at first instance. From this point of view, we must try to help everyone understand that we are not killing democracy, but we are not even doing the revolution; we are certainly doing something important: we are trying to adapt our country now, with a few decades of delay, to what is somehow the constitutional and functioning system of the other major European democracies. In this way I believe we will do an important service; if we do it quickly we will be able to devote ourselves to the many other problems that this country has and that have been evoked today, that we should always keep in mind, obviously avoiding saying that we should talk about those instead of doing what we are trying to do here. The work that has been done by the Government, the Senator Finocchiaro and all those who have worked in the Commission is important; let us not throw it away, because I believe that we would take the responsibility not to fail this passage but probably to say that in this country the reform of the Constitution and the overcoming of equal bicameralism are a chimera not reachable. At that point, perhaps, for everyone's dignity, it would be better to start thinking about not talking about it anymore. I do not believe that any of us would wish this to happen. Let's move on, because I think there are all the conditions to do it in a dignified way and also, with everyone's agreement, in a climate not exasperatedly poisoned. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u102	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I would like to concentrate on three aspects of this draft constitutional law, which I sincerely find difficult to define as a reform. The first concerns the hegemony of the Democratic Party that will take place with a Senate so conceived; the second concerns the new functions assigned to the Senate as representative of the territorial institutions, the competences of the Regions and the probable litigation that will result from this structure; the last aspect concerns the costs of the new Senate. Firstly, I would like to make a speech on the hegemony that we will determine with the draft law under consideration. One cannot think that the reform in our examination is born by chance. Behind the entire reform plan proposed by Prime Minister Renzi and the Democratic Party there is a subtle hegemonic design: it serves in fact to try to perpetuate the power of the Democratic Party. While the new electoral law for the election of the Chamber of Deputies can allow for an alternation, the new Senate, as conceived, marks a permanent prevalence. That's why I talked about the hegemony of the Democratic Party, precisely because of the Senate's composition mechanism. With Italicum, being planned a ballot, it is not assumed that the resulting result is always favorable to the center-left, because I believe that by necessity, sooner or later, the current political division into three blocks will change. Instead, we can talk about hegemony after the reform of the Provinces. After the Delrio reform, in fact, the presidents of the center-left have gone from less than half, to three quarters of the total. Hegemony is also likely in the Senate, which will be made up of one hundred members, five of whom are Presidential nominations and the former Presidents, which in fact is as if they set off a few meters ahead of the center-left, before even the race begins. Let us also consider the different regions, traditionally left-wing, which weigh heavily on the balance of the majority. I do not want to talk about the regime, a word that others in this House have also mentioned, but certainly the combined arrangement of the electoral law, which awards a large majority prize to a single political force, an influential Senate and a distribution of territorial power as drawn by the Delrio law, traditionally in the hands of the left, makes us imagine that there is a precise hegemonic will. There remains the observation (which I would call lean) that every hegemonic power has a beginning and an end, just like any regime, but if we think that we are examining the constitutional reform of the country is certainly not a good start, it is certainly not an important consolation. The functions of the Senate, after the passage to the Chamber, are certainly modified and resized, moreover they are exercised only in competition with the Chamber of Deputies. There are therefore no functions exercised by the Senate alone, but neither are functions exercised by the Senate independently of the House. The Senate, which is defined as a representative of territorial institutions, expresses only a mere contribution to the exercise of the function of liaison between State and territorial authorities. At the same time, the powers of the Regions are reduced by amending Article 117 of the Constitution, by removing the shared competence and by extending the exclusive competence of the State. Through this expansion of state competences compared to the current Constitution, they move to the exclusive competence of the State (I like to make a list to give the measure of change): insurance markets, the promotion of competition, the coordination of public finance and the tax system, the rules on the administrative procedure and on the legal discipline of work dependent on public administrations; the protection of health (to date shared matter) and social and food safety policies (to date shared is food); education (general and common provisions, rather than general rules as provided for in the current constitutional text); the educational system, university education and strategic programming of scientific and technological research; supplementary and supplementary provision (to date shared material); protection and safety of work; general and common provisions on education and vocational training (to date it was an exclusive regional matter); the legal system of local authorities, as well as provisions of principle on the associative forms of the municipalities; foreign trade (to date shared material); the enhancement of cultural and landscape goods (to date shared material); the sporting interest (to date concurrent); the legal order of the professions (up to date of shared matters); the ports; the coordination of communications; the general and the general government's rules on the territory; the civil distribution; the national systems; the distribution; the national systems; the national systems; the distribution and the national systems; and the coordination of general systems; and the national markets; and the coordination of the general rules of the distribution; and the national systems; and the national systems; and the national systems; and the coordination of the national systems; and the coordination of the national markets; the general rules of public; and the general rules of public; and the general rules of public; and the general rules of public; and the general rules of the general rules of public; the national rules of public; the public; and the national rules of public; and the public; the general rules of public; Regional competence remains only on: regional planning and internal mobility; infrastructure provision; regional planning and organisation of health and social services; promotion of local economic development and vocational training; regional organisation of business services; regional organisation of vocational training. Many of the areas of regional competence derive from a cropping of subjects previously of shared competence and co-exist with the powers of the state legislature in the same material field. In short, we are talking about a Senate that would represent the territorial institutions that no longer have competences and, therefore, a useless Senate. This new design of competences risks, moreover, creating a huge new dispute before the Constitutional Court. We must be aware of this: we have already seen it happen in the past and it would certainly not be a good future for Italians. The other aspect that, as I have already said, I would like to analyse is that of the costs of the new Senate, starting from the promise of Premier Renzi to reduce the costs of politics by one billion and to abolish the Senate. Given the real facts, the figures that emerge are others. We have tried, not so much as a joke, to make a check on the budget of the Senate of 2013 (which is that not yet conditioned by the many early exits of the staff in service recorded in 2014 and during 2015), comparing it with 2018, the year of the probable entry into force of the new Senate. The powers of senators, i.e. allowances, would increase from 44 million to zero, as senators would not be entitled to an allowance. The reimbursements of compensation for expenses incurred for the parliamentary term would increase from 37 million to about 12 million (therefore one hundred three hundred twenty-six). The treatment of senators who ceased their mandate would rise from 82 million to 102 million, with ninety-one former senators over sixty-five and thirty-seven former senators over sixty years and at least two legislatures. There would be more charges for the end-of-term treatment of at least 17 million euros, as well as a reduction for the transfer to parliamentary groups, or in any case to the support staff of the new senators, from 21 million euros to 7 million euros. Special secretariat staff would be increased from EUR 12 million to EUR 4 million. There would also be a proportional reduction in the number of advice for holders, from 2.2 million to just over €700,000. For the treatment of employees it would be increased from 131 million to 43 million euros and the relative social security charges would increase from 33 million to 11 million euros. It would exponentially increase the cost for the staff in quiescence, which would increase from 115 million to 202 million euros, but at the same time would raise the burdens of the Chamber of Deputies by at least 55 million euros. In the end, adding all the positive data and all the negative data, in 2018 the savings of the State for the new Senate will be about 90 million euros, due to a budget that will go from 545 million to 400 million euros and a consequent increase of 55 million for the Chamber of Deputies. The figure of EUR 90 million does not justify the emptying of the role and functions of an institution as important as that of the Senate, which we are trying to carry forward. The figure of 90 million euros is very far from the billion promised by Renzi and ridiculous compared to 130 billion more public debt attributable to the Renzi Government alone in just over a year and a half. The savings would have come from a amalgamation of the Regions that, on the contrary, lacks in the bill under consideration and from a more precise definition of the functions that these must have and carry on. In conclusion, if I think of the ideal tension of our constituent Fathers, of this sad Italy and of the Italians, I am convinced to affirm, without right of denial on the part of anyone, that our citizens deserve more. They deserve more attention on our part, calmer in time and greater foresight, but surely the Italians need more democracy. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u104	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cociancich. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u105	Mr President, it is indeed an honour for me - I say this without rhetoric - to speak in this debate on such an important and important subject for the democratic life and the future of our country. A general debate and discussion which, as the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Senator Finocchiaro, said this morning, was very long and full of speeches, reflections and contributions from the best Italian constitutional doctrine. More than thirty constitutionalist professors intervened only at this stage of third reading in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. They followed all the debates that were held at first and second readings in the Senate and the House. A debate enriched by important speeches in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, so much so that Senator Finocchiaro recalled that more than thirty Senators have already given an important assessment of the content of this measure. It has now been two and a half years since the debate in Parliament began on constitutional reform, because this process has also been preceded initially by a Committee set up by the President of the Republic and subsequently by the Commission set up by the Led Government with some experts who have produced reflections and contributions. So of this measure, that is, of the reform of Part II of our Constitution, I think we can say everything except that it has not been sufficiently investigated, examined, discussed and deepened. It should also be remembered, although I do not want to go too far back in time, how much this reform has been preceded by debates that go back rather back in the years. In fact, since the constituent Assembly, solutions were supposed to overcome the bicameralism of equality. It was rightly recalled that at the end of the day, the choice of equal bicameralism prevailed only as a fallback because in reality the constituent fathers were perfectly aware of the need and the opportunity to allow effective governability and extension of democracy by involving the territorial institutions in the legislative process and in the political and parliamentary debate at national level. So today's reform has the ambition not to close the spaces of democracy, but to expand them, involving the representatives of the territorial institutions, in particular the Regions, the Municipalities and, where possible, also the newly established metropolitan areas. It is clear that it is widening rather than narrowing the audience of those involved in the parliamentary political debate. In this way, in fact, the Regions that until now have had a marginal role, all in all, circumscribed and confined to the State-Regions Conference, would become the first actors at the parliamentary level, interlocating with the Chamber of depositaries and holder of the trust relationship with the Government and would have the possibility to make prevail or in any case make the position of the territorial entity that they represent in the debate that today, instead, is limited only to the political forces of majority and opposition. It should not be surprising, therefore, that it has been proposed that the status of opposition be reserved in future for debate within the Chamber of Deputies because the logic underlying the internal dynamics of the Senate should no longer be that of majority and opposition, but of representation of territorial interests and therefore of capacity to represent interests that are not identifiable with those of the parties that today dominate the political scene. It is a profoundly different view from what we have today of the role and functions of the Senate and perhaps the difficulty of understanding this different logic is the basis of perplexity, opposition and resistance towards the new proposal for reform of the constitutional structure. I believe that we should try to get out of this logic that someone called earlier conservative by trying to see what the positives are. The reform proposal provides that the House of Deputies is basically an expression of the electoral body and the people, while the Senate of territorial institutions. From this point of view, there are some consequences on the issue of the composition of the Senate: it is clear that if the actors and protagonists of the parliamentary debate in the Senate are the Regions, they will have to be these, intended in an institutional sense (so the Regional Councils) to express and indicate their representatives. It would be peculiar, strange and, in my opinion, incoherent that others were the subjects, for example voters, even at regional level, to indicate what are their senators: it would be like depriving regional councils and political forces, which, according to regional electoral laws, have established themselves in electoral competitions, the possibility of expressing their representations and of carrying forward the instances of the territories that are institutionally called to represent; it would seem to me essentially a contradiction that perhaps should not be exaggerated. I know that there is also an important debate within our parliamentary group, which sees some of us strongly committed to accepting the need for voters to have the opportunity to influence the nomination of senators. This is an opposition which could perhaps also be overcome by technical means, identifying preferences, so that readers can indicate to the Regional Council which candidates better than others could play this role, leaving ultimately the possibility of formally electing them to the Senate, from the point of view of designation, by the Regional Councils. The two positions do not seem to me to necessarily have to be placed as an alternative to each other. I believe that a technical solution can be found, if there is good will, as I believe there is from all of us today in order to complete the fundamental principle of expression of territorial representation. However, there is one point that must be borne in mind: we cannot afford the risk of having a Senate elected on the basis of a proportional system and a Chamber of Deputies elected with an electoral system that instead provides for a majority prize, because in this way we would permanently insinuate the doubt that one of the two Chambers, namely the Chamber of Deputies, does not effectively reflect the political geography of the country. In other words, the Senate would risk becoming a permanent warning of the lack of political legitimacy of the House, because the majority that emerged proportionally in the Senate would differ from that of the House and would be a sort of legitimacy in future memory of the House of Deputies or pollution and well poisoning. I find this to be a damage to our democracy of the future and a damage that we are living well today, because we experience all the hard work of our debate precisely because very often we are not able to discuss the merit of the issues, but we always take refuge in the delegitimization of the political opponent, which is a shortcut in order not to face the merit of the problems. It is a cultural issue: the great revolution that we should make, first of all, is to accept the legitimacy of the other, even if it is different from us, indeed, precisely as such and because it thinks differently from us. Everything that is different enriches us, so we should be proud of a democracy of diversity, which expresses diversity. On the other hand, we continue to resolve our conflicts in terms of mutual delegitimization, as demonstrated by all the insults and gazes of malice expressed in the course of this debate, alas, even today, fortunately not on the part of everyone, because on the one hand and on the other of the sides, in my opinion, there have also been valuable and useful interventions. But unfortunately we often fall into the temptation of a delegitimation that then often reverberates on the personal level. Then, the President of the Council and his predecessors are attacked, as if the only problem were the person. It is said that they have not been elected and basically there is always the doubt that the problem is there. One has no right to govern and, therefore, everything has to be reset and everything has to be completely destroyed. I believe that this is a disease from which we should try to heal, otherwise, whatever reform we will be able to approve, however we will not come out of a climate of conflict, which is what severely restrains our country, which would have so many resources and possibilities to progress, to be also leaders within the new world that we are seeing realized before our eyes. All this for the abilities, creativity, enthusiasm and intelligence of our fellow citizens who deserve to have before them institutions capable of representing this intelligence and this strength that they express at the moment when they work, study, make culture, in which they produce projects and do activities of internationalization. On this point I would also like to stress that this changing world today demands institutions capable of reacting more quickly, efficiently and effectively. The criticism that is systematically made to the political class is that of always being late, of always going to pursue the solutions of the problems after the problems have been largely enchanted and manifested and that, therefore, politics is always substantially unable to face them, to prevent and to guide the development of the country. It is true that today there are economic forces and also policies at world level capable of guiding the choices of large investment and relocation groups, which affect the possibilities of finding work, of having spaces for democracy, which go beyond the parliamentary institutions. Simply think of the European institutions that we have endowed ourselves with and that did not exist when the Constitution was launched in 1948. We have proudly been co-founders of the European Union, but this has also led to a transfer of sovereignty. We actually have three parliamentary levels today. Ours is a "tricameralism," if you allow me the expression a little forced. There is a European and a national level. We all know that European legislation has an influence of over 70% - some even say 80% - on national legislation. We cannot ignore this new fact, the fact that the ECB exists, that there are financial institutions. We cannot ignore the fact that there are also private institutions such as the New York Stock Exchange and the Shanghai Stock Exchange which have the possibility of influencing and influencing the economic conditions of the market, the price of products in a much more incisive and immediate way than any Commission, which wants to meet with our rituals and parliamentary regulations, could ever imagine being able to do. The need to streamline, to dry up and to make our democratic institutions more effective will result in strengthening them, above all because of a question of conscience before the citizens, which will see them more capable of reacting and affecting the various issues and less likely to discuss problems that are always seen as self-referential. All the great debate I mentioned earlier on the electivity of the senators appears to be a debate in which we speak only of ourselves. The thought that this conflict and this debate are blocking a path of reform is frankly terrifying, I think. It is gruesome to think that it is the mechanism of election of senators and not social or economic issues that stop a reform. We must show ourselves capable of responding to the great challenges that our time poses today. By spreading democracy and effectively giving Parliament and the government that it will elect (because, however, this reform does not affect the fact that there will be a government that will have to gain the confidence of the House), this reform will - I am convinced - give more credibility to our political class. It will give it a greater sense of responsibility, because the alibi that has always surrounded political action for too long and for too many years will disappear. The choices were not clear, because it was not well known who made them, because they were basically the result of compromises and mediations, sometimes extreme, confused and grey mediations. Well, where there was no ownership of the choice, there was also no responsibility. This type of reform, together with the reform of the electoral law, will identify with precision who will have the responsibility of the government, that is, who will have the responsibility for successes or failures, and will therefore give the possibility to citizens to decide, in the successive elections, whether to reward or punish those who have assumed the leadership of the country. I therefore believe that it is right to move towards a ruling democracy, which is not just a democracy of mediation. I think it is important to pass this mentality, which is unfortunately not yet fully diffused. This is also the cause of great phenomena of evil, because, where there is no clarity about who decides, where there are grey areas, there are insinuating evil and those who have interests different from those declared. We have seen how precisely those situations in which there are perhaps small political groups (not necessarily parties, but also merely political components), which can decide for themselves whether a particular government force can continue or not in its administrative experience, become the weak point and the soft belly of democracy, where the forces of a subversive and criminal nature are more easily attacked. On the other hand, I believe that transparency and the ability to govern and do so in a crystal clear way must be strengthened. I shall conclude, Madam President, with a few small comments. There are functions that had been identified at first reading in the Senate debate and that were deleted in the subsequent debate that took place in the House. Although I have the utmost respect for my colleagues in the House, I believe that some of these functions deserve to be reinstated and strengthened. In particular, I mention two of them, for my memory and memory of those who listen to me. The first of these functions is essentially the link between the institutional bodies of the European Union, the State and local authorities. This connection seemed to me an important function, which today is not properly carried out by the Chambers, because these also have other types of occupations. Precisely the fact that within the Senate there are representatives of the territorial institutions would give the Senate special and specific competence, knowing that today, according to the Treaty of Lisbon, the Regions themselves can be interlocutive on European policies. Therefore, the issue of the link should be strengthened and the role of the Senate should be strengthened in the ascending phase, i.e. in the proactive phase. As far as the descending phase is concerned, the assessment of the impact of European policies on our territory should be valued. I believe that this would help to prevent many infringements, which today are due precisely to territorial levels. Italy would therefore do well, also finding coordination between the different regions, to have a common position with respect to the European institutions, capable of intervening on the legislative activity or the formation of decisions at European level. A second function is participation in the decision to train and implement the acts, regulations and policies of the European Union and in the assessment of their impact. I have already commented on this. A third point is the assessment of the activities of public administrations: this is also an important function, which would give quality to our legislation, which today is lacking and for which it would be appropriate for the Senate to also have structures and evaluation capacities, which are excellent from the legal point of view, but which I think are lacking from the point of view of the capacity for economic analysis of the impact of public policies. Then there are the verification of the implementation of the laws of the State, the control and evaluation of public policies and the participation in the expression of opinions on appointments of competence of the Government in the cases provided for by the law. I want to link myself to this last point only for a final comment on the issue of the election of the President of the Republic, because it has been noted from several quarters that perhaps the formula that has been approved by the House of Deputies is not entirely adequate. Given that today it is already possible to elect the President of the Republic by an absolute majority and therefore the fear that in the future a political majority can elect the President of the Republic is perhaps a little late because it has already worked for seventy years, the formula aimed at foreseeing a mechanism perhaps more elaborate - in this regard opinions have already been discussed within the Committee on Constitutional Affairs - that can allow the President of the Republic to be the expression of a larger majority than that of the Government, it certainly seems to me a common concern. I would therefore like to conclude my speech on this point, subject to a final request. Today I listened to Senator Bondi, who asked those who had initially voted on the reform in question, asking what has happened in the meantime and why such a broad and expressed consensus has led today to such a radical and visceral opposition. I have listened to the thoughts of colleagues from Forza Italia and other groups, but it seems to me that this simple question has not been answered. Mr President, allow me therefore to hope that we will be able to have clarity on this point from the beginning of the debate. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u106	Members are thus exhausted from speaking in general debate at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u107	I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u110	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, I rise to denounce today's statements by the Ministry of Education, University and Research (MIUR), which would predict the dismantling of the National Anti-Racial Discrimination Office (UNAR), so I have already repeatedly denounced the lack of resources and the degradation of work, which has been praised by the European Commission against racism and intolerance of the Council of Europe. Now it would seem that the MIUR has also smashed and sent to the attic the second part of the UNAR plan against discrimination and racism, especially against homosexuals and LGBT rights which, as you know, provided courses for ministerial officials, officials of the Ministry and teachers. The statements by Minister Giannini on the absence of fanciful gender theories, which would be worse than the creationism propaganda by certain extremist groups in the good school, do not reassure us, because today it takes a step back announcing precisely the dismantling; not only, it also announced that the MIUR will implement its national anti-discrimination plan of which I have just said. Where is this plan? We are not seeing it and, beyond the ballet and pantomime on the bill in the matter of civil unions that we are witnessing - which we hope will soon come to a definitive calendarization in the Assembly - beyond the actions of this Government against the apparatuses of the State that deal with racial discrimination, such as UNAR, beyond the fact that there is no Minister for Equal Opportunities (after Minister Idem was no longer appointed anyone), beyond the fact that the MIUR has closed the doors also to the LGBT associations that asked to intervene to collaborate in this eventual new plan or in any case to draw up an adequate anti-discrimination strategy in this country, we wonder if truly this Government is not racist, intolerant and homophobic. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]] This attitude is intolerable and so we want someone to come and tell us about the real intentions of the Government for the protection of people who are discriminated against, who can no longer do so, because every day acts of violence occur. Every day there are people who are not protected. The last job that was done in this sense was that of Mara Carfagna; you are doing even less and I said everything. If you do not want everyone to recognize racist and homophobic attitudes to this Government, we demand that the UNAR be strengthened and not destructured and that the MIUR come to explain to us what it has in mind to reduce the now intolerable, very serious and dangerous level of ignorance, intolerance, violence and discrimination that exists in this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senator Lo Giudice]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u111	The Secretary of State for Education, University and Research, present here, will be able to gather the necessary elements to give you an answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u112	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-09-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-507.ana.u113	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Friday, September 18, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.11 a.m.
