ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 24 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u4	LANGELLA (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,36 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u8	Dear colleagues, yesterday Senator Giorgio Napolitano turned 90. [[Applause]] It has been years in which the entire political history of our Republic is enclosed: years that you, dear President, have lived as a protagonist. He devoted himself to political commitment very young, with the urgency of making a personal contribution so that Italy would leave the abyss in which she had fallen, beginning to live the passions of her time. An anxiety of ransom around the national works, but at the same time the yearning for a total regeneration, fueled by the concrete reality of his Naples and the Mezzogiorno, led, like others of his generation, to the militancy in the Communist Party: an experience woven of human values and strong ethical tensions that gave an essential contribution to the writing of the Constitution and to the rooting of democratic and republican institutions. Soon, her political itinerary brought her to European, lucid, mature, culturally aware and of great democratic importance. European socialism, which is part of the broader project of a political union, becomes, in the sign of the lesson of Altiero Spinelli, the natural landing place of his political and personal itinerary. The main area of his commitment in recent years has been Parliament, national and European, where he has distinguished himself for the vastness of interests, from the economy to international politics, the deep knowledge of things and - let me tell you - style. Parliamentary since 1953, Parent Company for years, finally President of the Chamber: responsibilities that gave you a perfect understanding of the parliamentary dynamics. As a protagonist to the opposition he lived in Parliament the years of lead and those in which the most heinous became the attack of crime on the republican institutions. It is not by chance that the time has come for the responsibility of the Government for its political part, she was the one who was asked to assume the central role of Minister of the Interior. This ministerial passage and the subsequent to the European Parliament as a promoter of a profound reform season and, therefore, the entry into the Chamber, in this House, as a senator for life, in 2005, are - seen today - consistent passages of an institutional itinerary that has led it to cover the highest office of our Republic. A magisterium of persuasion and influence, according to the constituent formula of Meuccio Ruini, a role that you, President Napolitano, interpreted firmly at a very difficult moment in the life of the country, hit by the most serious economic crisis in republican history. Of her actions, of her choices - even the most complex and related to the exceptionality of circumstances - she, President, following and developing the example of Luigi Einaudi, left us with punctual reasons, all public. The country's general interest and national unity were the firm compass of difficult decisions, last but not least that of accepting a second mandate in April 2013, at a time when our institutional life was seriously shattered. Closed this, which you yourself called "parentesi" of a constitutional exceptionality, has returned here, among our benches, with the passion, commitment and industriousness that distinguish it and there are to all of us of example. You who first, as a senator for life just appointed, asked as a rule the conduct of a parliamentary debate on the eve of a European Council, took the floor in this House, last week, for what has now become an institutional practice of dialogue between the President of the Council and Parliament. Dialogue is essential in order to build an ever deeper parliamentary awareness of the integration process. A political Europe which, like you, Mr Napolitano, has said well must abandon, even in your documents, an esoteric language, a code for initiates, and must instead be able to speak to the generality of the citizens, in order to produce operational choices and answers charged with a new force of cultural and ideal conviction. She, with some irony, wanted to end her biography, published ten years ago, saying that an elder must not take literally the albeit wise precept of Plutarch "the important thing is to do political activity, not have done it": it has been ten years and she, with generosity and vigour, continues to help our democracy, here, among the benches of this House, so that confidence in politics is not turned off. Thank you for your tenacity, thank you for your example, thank you for your commitment. Happy birthday, dear President! [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV) and Mixed. A lot of senators stand up.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u11	NAPOLITANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I thank you very much, Mr President, for the warm and non-formal words you have addressed to me, and I thank all my colleagues for their kindness and affection. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV) and Mixed.]] I am particularly pleased to see my considerable anniversary no longer welcomed in the exercise, by its lonely nature, of President of the Republic but here in this House, in this House, senator among the senators, engaged as each one, within the limits of his possibilities and in the vigorous respect of the constitutional balances to the life and activity of this institution. And what binds us all here, I believe, beyond the divergence of political views, is the sense of a common responsibility to Parliament itself, to the citizens and to the nation, especially at such a convulsive stage of international tension and dilemma for Europe. So thank you again to all and good work for what awaits us. [[Applause from the PD, FI-Pdl XVII, AP (NCD-UDC), Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV) and Mixed. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u14	DE PETRIS (Misto-SEL). Mr President, you will recall that last week, as a Mixed-SEL Group, we had asked for a specific motion on the Greek situation to be scheduled. The events of these days are, among other things, in a very dramatic key, not only the need for a debate, a debate in this House. We formally request that the Government report. By the way, we have learned that the House, during the question time, has decided that Minister Padoan, Wednesday or next Thursday, will report specifically. I do not think it is, as someone has proposed, the case of postponing until after the referendum. I say this very clearly, also because we can not be passive spectators or, worse (as we have read in these hours also in the interview of the premier this morning at "Il Sole 24 Ore"), be biased and actively bargain in favor of yes. Above all, this House has the right to have a serious debate on this issue because it is clearly not at stake in Greece, Mr President, an issue which only concerns the future of Greece. The referendum directly concerns Europe's destiny. It is not, as someone is saying, particularly in the European Chancellors or, even worse, on the part of the Troika itself, the fate of only one people; what is at stake, in a more stringent way, is the future of Europe itself, for a very simple reason. This is not, as some have said, a derby between the euro and the drachma, but in reality it is a step in which a people, democratically, will decide on their future, and will decide between austerity and a completely different idea of Europe. I had stood firm when, at the time of the announcement of the European semester under Italian presidency, Italy said that it would fight to change the policies of austerity; and also to intervene (not only in Greece, but more generally also in our country) to start a different season, to put the values of Europe back at the centre and not become a real blackmail, like what is being consumed in these hours in Greece: a blackmail to the people, who were asked to make even more sacrifices. I would like to remind you here of the situation. They make jokes about Greek pensions, but they forget to say that they have already been reduced by 38%. And we do not take into account the dramatic situation, the real poverty in which those people have been reduced. Therefore, despite the ongoing terrorist campaign, in that referendum it is precisely a choice that concerns not only Greek citizens but I believe all European citizens. It must be understood whether Europe must continue in the wake of policies that have clearly demonstrated its failure or whether it can really change, in the sense of recovering the strong idea of a Europe of solidarity. It is above all essential that the people speak, because it is an exercise of extraordinary democracy, which is obviously annoying to certain chancellors in Europe. Instead, I believe that the choice of Prime Minister Tsipras to make citizens choose was courageous. They are faced with the alternative: to continue to be humiliated and pay even more, as if they had not already given much, or to send a signal to the whole of Europe. The urgency of having information - and I conclude, President - is linked to the fact that in these last hours the news has arrived that a new proposal has been sent by the Greek Government. It is therefore all the more necessary to have a debate in this House, and it is also necessary for the Commission to come and tell us, above all, where the Italian Government stands. In fact, in words, it was said that we were allies with Greece also to change Europe itself, while today we are fully aligned in the terrorist campaign against the Greek people. [[Applause from the Mixed-SEL and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u17	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, it will be shorter than Senator De Petris. However, the things he said make me think. I, too, have read very carefully the President-in-Office's interview today on "Il Sole 24 Ore" in the hope of finding reasons that would not make information necessary in this House. On the other hand, I have found many reasons which can and must make it absolutely necessary. But I have also read more carefully what is published on the European Union's website, with the points that seem to be Europe's final proposal to Greece, and with the points that the Greek Government has sent on five occasions, from 8 June to 25 June. I have to admit that I have found this publication, in a somewhat unsavory way, a provocation from the European Commission towards the Greek Government. And if I have not misunderstood the reading of the newspapers, Friday night, while the Greek officials were working to find an understanding - still possible at that time, compared to what was being discussed in the European Parliament - suddenly the Greek Government, through Prime Minister Tsipras, decided to call the referendum, also putting in difficulty and embarrassment the Greek officials who were at work at that time in an attempt to find yet another and perhaps last mediation. I read nothing of this in my interview with our President-in-Office and published today by Il Sole 24 Ore and therefore it seems absolutely mandatory for the government to come to this House to report, partly because I remember that membership of the euro is an irreversible process. I always knew, understood and read that it was not possible to get out of the euro. Here we have Greece, a European country of ancient democracy, father and mother of our culture, which suddenly - at least as it seems reading the newspapers - is thrown into a corner, so much so that the Greek leaders themselves appeal to the people to know what should be done. And it is a referendum between belonging to the euro area and not belonging to it. Therefore, we are faced with a fundamental episode in the life of Europe from which we cannot ignore. It is therefore not acceptable that the Italian Government should not come to Parliament to respond to a process from which we tend to be absent. Of course, I do not agree with the conclusions of Senator De Petris, but I agree with her on the absolute need for a debate in this House, I imagine both the Senate and the House. I do not think it is possible to do that after the referendum has taken place, because, at that point, everything will have happened: if it is a yes, we know what its size will be and what will happen to Greece; if it is a no, we know the outcome and we know what will happen also and especially to our country. It cannot therefore be imagined that Parliament is not required to listen to and pay attention to this problem, which seems to me to be fundamental to the future life of all Italian citizens. I make one last point before concluding: when it is said that the break is on the weight and cost of Greek welfare - and it seems to me a real and realistic thing - which apparently weighs between 15% and 16% of the state budget, and Greek citizens can retire between the ages of fifty and sixty, while we asked ours to do so at the age of sixty-seven, how do we explain to Italian pensioners that they have to pay the privileges of those who retire much earlier in Greece? So I just want to add this element to say how much that decision can influence the attitude, awareness and knowledge of these things by Italian citizens. The natural forum for this to happen is the Italian Parliament, so I absolutely ask the Government to report back to this House on what is happening in Europe before it takes place. [[referendum. (Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u20	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, already last week we had requested the intervention of the Government, which - it is not rhetorical to say - must report to the Chambers, because this is the place where it refers and which, of course, the citizens, through their representatives, know. The thing that, among other things, worries us and surprises us is that we simply read the tweets of the President of the Council of Ministers, when it is now known that our country is exposed for 40 billion euros towards Greece, an exhibition that until 2011 did not exist. Something really serious is happening, of which citizens must be made aware, with particular reference to the position of the Government; otherwise, once again, we are the ones who pay the bill, but do not even sit at the table. I believe and we believe that the government must come to report on this and have a precise mandate from the Chambers on how to behave in this situation, avoiding for the umpteenth time to arrive at discussion and concluded conclusions, especially if they were not made within our country, but decided in European place on our head. For this reason, we are calling for a debate to take place this week with the presence of the Government here in the Chamber. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u23	BONFRISCO (CRI). Mr President, as you can see, only a few days later, this knot comes to the comb: my Group, the Italian Conservatives and Reformists, in approving last week's calendar, had asked that the President of the Council, after the European Council, should return to report back to the Italian Parliament on its results, both on the subject of immigration and on the equally serious one of Greece and this Grexit, which, in our opinion, is a road worth trying all the way and taking seriously. At this point, as you can see, the President-in-Office of the Council cannot fail to inform Parliament of the outcome of a European Council in which Italy showed its weakness. The Renzi Government has shown all its weakness on two fundamental issues, which concern us closely: first that of immigration, but also that of Greece, as Mr Candiani reminded us. For some years now we have started a very strong disbursement, starting from the spread crisis that was pumped at all costs and in every way. Thanks to Trani's attorney, we have also discovered in how many ways the idea of financial speculation was pumped that from Greece to Portugal moved to Italy, infecting it to weaken its political choice and that government elected by Italians and instead favor one technically and magically built in those hours, even in the most important offices of our Republic, to face a crisis. During that crisis, in addition to the painful cuts to Italians, we began the disbursement of very strong financial support, also from Italy, to that so-called state-saving fund, about which we spoke last week. The count of what we have already committed to the rescue of this extraordinary situation that has come to be created is very expensive. The 40 billion quoted by Senator Candiani is part of that commitment (up to 60 billion) that we signed at the time. Now, I say that Italy, as always, must be able to do its part. Of course, we cannot be with Tsipras in the morning and with Merkel in the afternoon: let's agree if the right line is that of Tsipras or that of Merkel. I think that neither of the two political lines is correct: neither that of Tsipras, who does not deal with the reality and the truth of the Greek situation (Mr Romani mentioned a part of it), nor that of Merkel, who, with its rigour at all costs - which has favoured in fact the German economy and the German leadership of this Europe - has determined the crisis situation in which we all pour, the Italians in particular. I say this with regard to our economy, which has no longer been able to use the lever of competitiveness that it once had, and therefore of our industrial fabric. I also say that in relation to that balance and social cohesion that we have lost by means of inflicting cuts on people in their living flesh. In this regard, I agree with my colleague Mr Romani: I will not vote in favour of a request that even one euro should be removed from Italian pensioners to give it to Greek pensioners. On the other hand, I agree with a line that helps us to get Greece and other countries out of this situation, but this is done with a genuine and serious policy, having at heart the interests of the European peoples and their economy; through a balance that is held all together and not with an imbalance towards a purely financial formula that passes on to people and that will feed and favor - if possible still - those nationalisms and radicalisms that will end up destroying this Europe, that will end up putting an end to this extraordinary dream. There is no point in quoting Spinelli in this House, President Grasso: we betrayed that dream by making it a mere accounting operation or, worse, just an economic operation to the advantage of one another and to the disadvantage of the other. And if we are not able to deal with the problem of Greece, which is 2% of Europe's GDP, it means that this Europe is of no use at all. At our gates, on the other side of the Mediterranean, there is a country that asks us for help and that imposes on the West, on Europe, and on us first of all, the theme of the defence of a territory and of a people that is worth even less: 7 million people who live in a country that we must save from terrorism and from the attack on the West and on Europe. Let President Renzi speak of this: he is called by this Parliament to respond to his responsibilities. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u26	MARTON (M5S). Mr President, I rise to support the request of the other group leaders. In fact, I would like you to convene a conference of group leaders immediately to ensure that the government is required to report to the House on what is going on and on our Commission's position in relation to the facts of Greece. Last Wednesday we voted against a PD resolution precisely because, in our opinion, it was a violation of the sovereignty of the Greek people since it intended to maintain Greece's strong link to the euro and to Europe. Instead, we believe that the exit from the euro and Europe is not, as Senator Romani says, an irreversible process. Therefore, because we are convinced that this process is not irreversible, but rather can be done - so much so that we have deposited a bill, President Grasso, which has collected more than 100,000 signatures, no later than a month ago - we ask that the Conference of the Leaders be convened and that our request be set straightaway for the government to report to the House immediately, tomorrow morning. [[Applause from the Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u29	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, the Senators of the Democratic Party also consider it necessary for the Government to come to the Senate to report on the progress of the negotiations to resolve the tragedy of Greece, which is not only a tragedy of the Greek nation and its citizens, but also affects the whole of Europe. We also believe that the government must decide, of course in its authority and autonomy, when is the best time to come and report - I hope, of course, very quickly - here in the Senate. Personally, I do not see the substantial difference between a government presence in the next few days or immediately after the referendum in Greece - a referendum that will be decisive - although in the meantime - as we know - negotiations continue. Let me just add one thought, Mr President, to the brief debate that preceded my speech. Colleagues, see that the root of the problem, as well as in the Greek question, lies also in the responsibility of all Europeans - we understand of course - for the slowness with which we have been making progress for decades in the political unity of our continent. There is no nation in Europe, including Italy, nor is there perhaps even a political part in Europe that can be called out of this responsibility. It is the lack of political union in Europe that is at the root of the problem, which is causing difficulties and slowness in focusing problems and making decisions. We had a call last week, during the debate that has always been about Europe. I would remind my fellow Members that, just five days ago, Parliament was busy talking about Europe for almost a whole day before the European Council and in this very Chamber, during that debate, one of our colleagues, Senator Tronti, drew the root of the problem, namely the difficulty of bringing together the issue of numbers and finance with the problems, needs and aspirations of people, of European citizens. Only politics can bring these two things together, numbers and people, and a Europe that is not politically united is a Europe that will always have enormous difficulties in making big decisions. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u30	Colleagues, since the next item is the debate on a decree-law which expires this week, I believe that I am now convening the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups tomorrow at 1 p.m., at the end of the afternoon sitting, precisely to address this issue. I would also remind you that, as has already been informally communicated to the Groups, at the request of a parliamentary group, today's sitting will end at 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u31	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1971, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Bertuzzi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Decree-Law No 51, of which we are beginning today's debate in this House, contains urgent provisions to deal with the serious crisis affecting the dairy sector and to start relaunching the whole chain, to develop a plan of interventions aimed at recovering the production capacity of the olive sector and to provide the necessary support to farms affected by flooding events in 2014 and 2015 and infections from organisms harmful to plants. Agriculture represents an important economic sector for our country which, even in the latter crisis - the most prolonged since the post-war period - has played an anti-cyclical role, contributing to the recomposition of national GDP. It has recovered value in production and increased exports, with a significant social effect on the maintenance of employment levels, rising over the last two years. However, there are still evident critical features, often of a structural nature, that hinder the competitive potential of the sector. Volatility of producer prices, fragmentation of supply, exposure to exceptional weather events, spread of unknown phytopathologies are some of the main factors that make the income of producers indeterminate and precarious the sustainability of companies. During the last year, various measures, both parliamentary and governmental, were discussed and approved to respond to the request for modernisation of the sector and its public support instruments. This is the same reason that the Decree-Law No 51 brings to the attention of the House today. The text under discussion and approval today in the Senate is the result of a very thorough work in the Commission and in the Chamber of Deputies, which has greatly improved the original text of the Government, gathering many of the proposals from the various political groups, and which has led to a broad approval without the expression of any contrary vote. The same text was adopted by the Senate Committee on Agriculture. Several agendas were linked to this, with which the Commission wished to commit the Government, in the figure of the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry Policy, to a subsequent evaluation. Entering into the substance of the content of the decree-law, Article 1 said rules for the dairy sector, aimed at accompanying the gradual transition from the quota regime, which expired on 31 March, to that of the free market. In this respect, the European Union had opened negotiating tables which should have identified measures to limit the risks associated with the increase in possible price volatility. These indications, in fact, have never arrived, thus transferring the task of providing them to the Member States. The decree-law therefore intervenes as a matter of urgency to regulate the months close to the end of the quota regime and to reorder the trade relations within the supply chain. In particular, it is expressly expected that companies affected by the major crisis will be able to access, on request, the installment in three interest-free annual instalments of the levy due for the milk production year for the period from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015, in compliance, of course, with the limits set by the European framework on State aid in the agricultural sector. The request for installment, to which all producers can access amounts exceeding EUR 5.000 (even those who have already paid the levy), must be submitted after the provision of bank or insurance guarantee in favour of Agea, by 31 August 2015. It is expected that, in the event of a partial or delayed payment of a instalment, the producer will lapse from the benefit of the installment, thus authorising Agea to discuss the guarantee for the unpaid portion of the levy. In order to make the collection system more efficient and, more generally, the entire management of the payment system, the possibility was introduced, within the decree-law, for Agea to manage in the future, when the participation of the private partner will cease, either directly or through wholly public companies, as is provided for the possibility of entrusting directly to third parties, selected through a public evidence procedure, the national agricultural information system. Article 2 of the measure contains rules for the reordering of trade relations in the dairy sector, in order to protect the competitiveness of the agricultural system in overcoming the quota system. The establishment of interbranch organisations by product or product is thus encouraged. It is stipulated that, for the last milk year of application of the scheme, where financial availabilities remain in relation to the refunds due, the compensation rule may be allowed for holdings exceeding 50% of the quantity allocated, provided that the limit of 6% of the quantity available is not exceeded. In this way we exceed the limit set in the original text of the Government, which is 12%. With regard to trade relations, in order to help avoid unfair practices against producers and to allow proper planning of production volumes, it is established that the duration of contracts cannot be less than 12 months and ISMEA is entrusted with the monthly preparation of average production costs. In addition, sanctions related to non-compliance with Article 62 of Decree-Law No. 1 of 2012 within the chain are exacerbated. Article 3 introduces a new framework for interbranch organisations, providing that, in the dairy sector, recognition is made where the applicant interbranch organisation represents at least 25% of the sector's activity, including that representation may be related to each product or group of products, redefining with this hypothesis further provisions on representativeness. Recognition may be granted to a single organisation by sector or by product or group of products in the sector, including by economic division, always at national level, in accordance with the requirements of European legislation. Where more than one application is submitted, recognition shall be granted to the most representative organisation, without prejudice to the recognition already carried out. Interbranch organisations to ensure compliance with the provisions on the supply of agricultural and agri-food products are allowed to apply for compulsory contributions for the performance of their institutional purposes, which are also valid for those who are not members. And it is precisely with regard to the erga omnes applicability of the rules adopted by organisations that the representativeness requirements to be demonstrated by the applicant organisation are met. They can be presumed if there is no opposition from other organisations. In order to strengthen the system of structured trade relations, the provisions for the dairy sector also extend to the organisations established in the other sectors, indicating the requirements for representativeness and also providing for the possibility, in the event that after recognition another organisation proves to have a greater representativeness than the previously authorised one, to withdraw the previous one and to recognise the more representative one. Article 4, aimed at the recovery of the productive and competitive potential, as well as the improvement of the quality of the product of the olive-oil sector, establishes the Fund for the implementation of the plan of interventions in the sector in question, with a budget of 4 million euros for 2015 and 14 million for 2016 and 2017. These should concern the renewal of plants and the introduction of new crop systems, support for research activities, the enhancement of Made in Italy, the varietal recovery of national cultivars of table olives in new fully mechanizable olive trees and the incentive to the aggregation of operators in the supply chain. We therefore move on to a series of support measures for farms affected by exceptional events. The first case concerns the companies affected by alluvial events and atmospheric adversities that occurred between 2014 and the date of issue of the decree-law in question, including also the agricultural companies that have suffered, in the last three years, damages to the stocks of raw materials, semi-finished products and finished products. The second case concerns the companies affected by infections of organisms harmful to plants in 2013, 2014 and 2015 with priority for those related to the spread of the annoying xylella, the cynipid of chestnut and golden flavescence. In particular, for operations in favour of companies damaged by the spread of the annoying xylella, the Solidarity Fund budget is increased by EUR 1 million for 2015 and by EUR 10 million for 2016, while for the other operations it is planned to supplement the same Fund by an amount of EUR 10 million for 2016. In addition, the increase in the National Solidarity Fund is also available for fisheries and aquaculture, amounting to EUR 250,000 for 2015 and EUR 2 million for 2016, in order to provide compensation for damage to productions and structures in the territories affected by exceptionally intense atmospheric adversity, starting in 2012. Article 6 deletes the Commissioner's management of ex-Agensud activities and transfers its functions, in particular with regard to the management of water services, to the departments and Directorates of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policies. According to the initial report to the measure, the aim is to ensure the implementation of irrigation structures, particularly in the regions of Southern Italy affected by flooding events, also in relation to the national rural development programme (PSRN), which will be approved, which will contain national measures for irrigation in agriculture and will require coordinated management with European policies relating to rural development. The authorisation to the managing director of the Ministry of Agricultural Policies to make payments and collections is extended to 31 December 2015 using the treasury account of the former agency for the development of the horse sector (ASSI). Finally, a new article 6-a has been introduced to the House, which contains rules for transparency in contractual relations in agricultural chains and provides for the establishment, with subsequent ministerial decree, of the national single commissions for the most representative supply chains, called to determine the price quotations to be referred to in the contracts for the sale and sale of agri-food products. The standard also provides for the participation of professional organisations and associations, in accordance with objective criteria of representativeness, and for the suspension of the autonomous collection of the freight exchanges established in the chambers of commerce, industry, crafts and agriculture, covering the categories of goods for which the national single commissions have been established. I conclude by pointing out the importance and urgency of the measure, as well as the need for a positive conclusion of the approval process, not only because of the obvious characteristics of necessity and urgency described in the report, but also because of the consistency that is evident with the content of the other measures relating to the agricultural sector approved over the last few months, which have often been widely shared. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u35	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, in the Commission we would have liked to be able to go further and really work on this measure, which is yet another addition, without actually going to solve - as we shall see - the problems of agriculture. It is well known, however, that in the Commission, also because of the misunderstandings - I call them in this way - on the part of the Government regarding oppositions and minorities, there has been no real debate. So, Mr President, in terms of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask you to suspend the measure and send it back to the Commission. [[Applause from Senator Divine.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u36	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per group may speak on the question of suspension for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u39	GATTI (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out that the information that my colleague from the League has just given is not accurate. In the Commission there has been plenty of room for general discussion and discussion of the amendments which have been tabled and voted on. The problem is that opposition has deliberately abandoned the Commission. It seems to me, therefore, even odd that a suspensive question can be raised, on the grounds that it was not possible to discuss the measure, when the oppositions, on the other hand, left the Commission's work explicitly and voluntarily. And it is so true that they abandoned the Commission's work at the afternoon sitting, but there was also the next morning's sitting, when the amendments were also voted on. I therefore think that the situation is absolutely questionable and verifiable: I do not think that there has been a narrowing or a closure of the Commission's time. [[Applause from Senator Padua.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u42	Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Mr President, I just have to confirm the precise and timely account that Senator Gatti has just made. There was, in fact, plenty of time for the members of the Committee on Agriculture to explain their positions and table their amendments. Some of the opposition's colleagues have preferred not to use the possibility of tabling amendments, while some others have done so, and in any case they have voluntarily chosen, even with explicit statements, not to participate in the Commission's work. The reasons for their waiver are recorded in the minutes and are not the subject of debate in this House or in others, but the explanatory statement does not concern our assessment. The time to vote and to participate was there. Clearly, the Commission's work has been much faster since many of the amendments tabled preferred not to make use of this possibility. I should like to stress, Mr President, that freedom of debate has been fully guaranteed. If someone has preferred not to make use of it, it is a legitimate choice which is not indisputable, but which cannot in any way revoke in doubt the regularity of the work that has taken place. [[Senator Giro's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u45	RUVOLO (GAL (GS, MpA, NPSI, PPI, IdV, VGF, FV)). Mr President, for the sake of truth, the facts that have occurred in the Committee on Agriculture are as follows. The measure under consideration arrived in the Senate exactly on June 26 and was incardinated to be approved in the Chamber by July 5. The reason why the opposition absolutely did not feel that it could participate in the proceedings is that in fact the Senate was abolished once again, at least as far as this Commission is concerned. In other words, we have not been given the opportunity to discuss such an important issue. Moreover, the title of the measure states exactly: 'Relaunching of the agricultural sectors'. So we all hoped that in this revival there would be the rebirth of agriculture, and that was not the case. There has been no hearing, neither on the subject of restructuring, which is dealt with in this measure, nor, above all, on the subject of the milk quota regime. That was the reason, at the initiative of myself and my colleagues in the opposition, for which we left the Commission: there was no opportunity either to amend or to debate. These are the true facts, the absolute truth, and will result in the acts.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u48	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I would just like to say that we often complain in this House that the measures do not go on and remain firm within the Commission for months. I realize that perhaps the procedure could have been wider and the deadlines for consultation could have been greater. But I assure you that there has been every opportunity to intervene, to table amendments and to assess the content of an absolutely urgent measure. I believe that milk quotas have been a problem for too many years now. It is a subject on which, moreover, Italy has repeatedly made a bad figure and therefore, it is time to remedy it and resolve it. I must say, moreover, that this measure deals with other urgent issues - among other things, the contrast to the annoying xylella - so it is essential that farmers can be reassured that our State and our Government support them in the fight against this bacteria. I really believe that the opportunity to conclude the measure, to complete it and to ensure that it is finally operational and can be supported and supported by just financial resources cannot be lost. Therefore, our Group agrees that the debate should continue and that it should be approved in order to demonstrate, even to those who listen to us, that Parliament is making full use of the time allowed to arrive at measures that will finally become operational and will be implemented.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u51	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking because it is pointless to keep talking to us. There's another farce going on here. If we're all gonna be happy and happy and pretend everything's okay, then tell us. But it isn't. The point is that in the Committee on Agriculture, as long as we in the 5 Star Movement are silent, firm and always say yes, everything is fine; but when we point out that there are things that need to be discussed, evaluated and whatever else, there is a dictatorial attitude in the Commission. So we either tell her everything, or pretend everything's okay. The opposition in the Commission has decided to leave the Chamber for the simple reason that we have been inhibited by the possibility of discussing the measure. Discussing means evaluating, trying to find solutions together, as should normally be in a Commission that works for the good of its citizens. We realized that all this could not happen, and then we, as the 5 Star Movement, had no will to participate in the conduct of a farce. That is the truth and that is what I wanted to reiterate. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Ruvolo]] And it's useless that Senator Panizza and Senator Gatti continue to tell you: We gave this. We've done some action on xylella. We've been thinking about milk quotas. It's not like that. The citizens must know that, in reality, they have not been given anything, on the contrary, taxes are being increased, or in any case small crumbs are being given, just to give a contentment to the promises made in the electoral campaign. Actually, it wasn't given a nice dry fig. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Ruvolo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u52	We shall now proceed to the vote on the suspension of the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u53	We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u54	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 5 p.m.52 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5.32 p.m. and resumed at 5.50 p.m.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the question of suspension. Verification of the quorum ENDRIZZI (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u55	I put to the vote the suspensive question raised by Senator Candiani. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while the debate in this House - which we hope will be fruitful - on the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 51 of 2015, which is ironically ironic of fate, has arrived from the European Commission another very heavy tile on the head of Italian agri-food production. We all know that the European Union has imposed a ban on our country from using powdered milk for the production of fresh cheese and mozzarella. This is a real attack on the quality, the typicality and traceability of our productions, those that the whole world envies us and that, of course, the multinationals of legalized fraud and circumvention of the rules would want to annihilate. And they seem to have made it. Now, this affront - which I hope will be fought with force and determination by the Government, and frankly the first statements by Minister Martina, although timely, did not really convince us - should come as a warning in this House, just as we are dealing with... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u57	Colleagues it is impossible and intolerable to proceed in the debate with this noise. Anyone who wants to leave the Chamber should do so, but allow Senator Bonfrisco to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u58	BONFRISCO (CRI). I'll try to be as brief as possible. As I said, all this happens while we approve a text which should contain a series of measures to relaunch the various agricultural sectors in crisis. For example, a series of interventions to support agricultural enterprises affected by exceptional events, in our increasingly recurring country, and a series of interventions to rationalise ministerial structures. The Group of Conservatives and Reformists is ready for this discussion, so much so that, considering that some critical issues of the sector are unavoidable, it has made concrete proposals on the merit of what we could define the "agri-agenda" to help improve this bill, not to waste an important opportunity that must then be declined in a perspective of permanent comparison with the trade associations and on the basis of well-defined passages. For us, starting from the elimination of the IMU on land and the functional buildings to agricultural activities we must continue with the relaunch of youth entrepreneurship in the agricultural field through the tax reduction for young people who open agricultural enterprises and the allocation of plots of national agricultural property to create new enterprises; with a greater protection of Italian interests in the negotiations for the Common Agricultural Policy (the famous CAP); with the protection of typical Italian productions from counterfeiting; with the allocation of more resources for adverse events and prevention, which we consider fundamental. Despite the fact that the general system of the rules contained in the draft law of necessity and urgency is acceptable - provided that they really had the force of incisive rules, indispensable in order to face the serious crisis that has hit, for example, the milk sector or the olive and oil sector and the agricultural companies that have suffered damage due to flooding events and infections of organisms harmful to plants - I must point out, however, that this measure is in many ways lacking. It is lacking in merit, because it leaves out the critical door that should be addressed effectively. I am thinking of the counterfeiting of Italian agri-food products, for example, the fight against Italian soiling, which we all claim we want to do. The agro-piracy market becomes more prosperous every day to the detriment of healthy companies in our country, resulting in the loss of thousands of jobs and damages for several tens of billions of euros a year for companies that, among other things, must also suffer, in this historic juncture, the very serious consequences of the sanctions imposed on Russia. It is lacking from the financial point of view, I would add in particular, because, in our opinion, the funds allocated for such a broad bill, which is quite insufficient to deal with the critical issues of a sector that deserves much more attention. The one reserved for the sector by this Government, unfortunately, is instead constituted by a long line of regulatory measures, that we have not shared at all and that nothing they do to free agriculture from bureaucratic and fiscal constraints unsustainable and help it instead to grow. The list is long, but to name a few, I am thinking of the increase in excise duties on agricultural gas oil, the reduction in the quota of reduced diesel oil for heteroculture, the revaluation of cadastral incomes on rural buildings and, pearl of pearls, the now notorious IMU capital tax on agricultural land. This is an iniquitous, unnecessarily vexatory, deleterious leap, of which, precisely with one of our amendments, we have come back to ask for the elimination. In our proposal, this is covered by a reduction in the Fund for structural measures for economic policy to the limit of EUR 360 million per year. It would be enough, even if it is not much for that fund, which is still large: in this way, we could really say that we can help first of all the owners of agricultural land to hope that in this country we can still talk about agriculture and be farmers. [[Applause from the CRI Group and Senator Scilipoti Isgrò.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u59	Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u60	Mr President, I will not go over the contents of the decree-law in detail, because my colleague, Mrs Bertuzzi, has already done this wonderfully. However, we have to start from some data to try to understand what we are talking about: agriculture, in recent years, has significantly increased GDP, in contrast to other economic sectors. In particular, agriculture's GDP increased by almost six percentage points in 2014, but in view of this increase, we have to see a decrease in the profitability of the agricultural enterprise (so much so that the figure provided by ISTAT for 2014 is 11 percent negative for the agricultural undertaking). On the one hand, we are therefore dealing with and discussing a sector that determines incremental GDP points and therefore certainly does important work in the Italian economic system; on the other hand, we have to deal - and we are dealing with it - with a sector in great trouble and in great difficulty. The measure, which, as we know, has reached almost the limit of convertibility, will in fact be approved by the Senate without any change: in our view, therefore, it has not been evaluated in a comprehensive and exhaustive manner in the Commission and will be so in this House. The thing that we can and must urge Parliament to do here, but above all the majority and the government, is that this decree constitutes a sort of prodrome of passage within measures that must concern more broadly agricultural policies in our country. In the first place, I am referring to the revision of the system of taxation of agricultural land, in particular the so-called agricultural IMU, which today weighs heavily on businesses and the agricultural sector and is absolutely felt by the political world as unfair taxation. In fact, the Head of Government himself made steps in this regard and it should not be implied that, among other things, when the DEF was approved, in a fundamental step, one of the formal commitments made, contained in that Document, was precisely the revision of the IMU system. In order to proceed more quickly, I will jump from pole to pole, the question that concerns the so-called milk quotas, on which I must admit that there is some criticality. It is quite clear that, where the new criteria for the allocation of quotas paid in excess of what is due (the so-called compensation), in my opinion, the measure contains some small favouritism - or some similar attitude - towards the so-called so-called milk quotas. But I want to take advantage of the few minutes available to ask the Government and the Deputy Minister here for the ratio of an article in my opinion absolutely unjustified and inexcusable. I refer to Article 6, which deletes the figure of the Commissioner ad acta of the former Agensud and, in fact, also this important management, namely Agensud in general. I would like to remind the House of what we are talking about: Commissioner Agensud's management is the one that deals with reclamation and national irrigation plans, so basically not only to clean up the territory, but to bring water into our countryside. Since it has been very positive in terms of results in recent years, I would like to mention a number of issues: every year, this structure issues 300 commissioners' decrees; in the last years of the current Commissioner ad acta's activities, 70 new irrigation works have been launched, amounting to around 600 million euros and 27 new plans; 854 financing reports have been closed; 118 withdrawal measures have been adopted for contributions unlawfully granted, worth 64 million euros. Actions for the recovery of approximately EUR 49 million have been launched. Five constitutions of civil parties have been established in as many criminal proceedings against several defendants, including executives and ministerial officials, for a total amount requested of 130 million euros. 36 public procurement disputes have been defined for 42 works, for a total amount recognised of EUR 40 million, amounting to less than 10% of the more than EUR 428 million requested by companies, also ensuring rapid disbursements to the same companies, with an average payment time of 30 days, with one-day tips. In one case, the Commissioner managed to obtain the return of 12 million euros from a primary construction company, thus achieving real and substantial savings of expenditure for the State: a real example of virtuous management, as attested by "Il Sole 24 Ore" a few months ago. I have the impression, dear Deputy Minister, that this structure is abolished and closed precisely because, being a virtuous example of management, it was not necessary and could not be disfigured other managements of the State, and in particular other managements of the same Ministry of Agricultural Policies. The Commission's management over the last few years has been recognized by Parliament as being six laws, which have been approved by, among other things, several political majorities, some of which have been voted unanimously by Parliament, which have strengthened not only its powers and powers, but have allowed for a number of innovative laws and rules. I am referring to the design fund, the measure which concerned in particular energy efficiency, the so-called mini-electric, which would be used to manage this important resource intelligently in order to make it more efficient, and thus to reduce the energy cost of the consortia themselves. I am referring to the rule that allows the recovery of economies, including those of the auctions that must be reallocated directly to Agensud itself and, through this, have been redistributed allowing, for 90%, the financing of new works and for ten percent interventions to promote Italian excellence. Thanks to this rule, operating only for a few years, as many as 60 million euros have already been distributed on Italian territories, with important works that have been financed, with electric efficiency interventions financed by our country. All this is allowing the system to put in place a new hydro-electric ban for the North and further new irrigation interventions in other Italian regions. Not to mention the direct conventions that, from different regions, especially the southern ones, have been established with this commissionerial management precisely because it recognized itself as an excellence in this. All this will no longer be possible, and among other things with the rule of suppression - which has absolutely the incredible - these functions will not automatically go to the competent department of the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, for which they will certainly cause very great delays and inefficiencies, with a consequent loss of image for the Ministry - which would be absolutely little account - but with real damage mainly to the southern regions, to the system of consortia and to the agricultural sector in general. (18.09) (Follows MARINELLO). I would like to conclude by saying that this is an issue which clearly marks a point, in my opinion, of a negative turning point in the management of the Ministry. You know, Mr. Deputy Minister, I have to tell the truth, and I say this as an exponent of this majority, assuming the full responsibility of what I say. First the measure on the agricultural IMU that the Head of Government himself rightly made the commitment to revise it; Then it was the turn of the abolition of the State Forestry Corps; now that of Agensud: I would like to continue this way farmers, when we see representatives of the Ministry of Agricultural Policies or those who represent them, begin to make a begging. Let's stop, then; let's think about the agricultural policies of our country and see how to remedy the failure that we do by approving Article 6 of this measure. [[Applause from the AP Group (NCD-UDC)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u62	Madam President, we are once again talking about agriculture, which we should be happy about, because it means that the issue is at the top of the government's agenda. What comes out, however, is that we are talking for the umpteenth time about agriculture - the third time in recent months - examining armored measures, on which, as in the specific case of the decree-law in question, which expires on July 5, is essentially prevented the action of parliamentary confrontation. In the case of the decree-law under consideration, in particular, the Government has not put its trust in it, but basically prevents any amendments from being adopted because the measure, after being held firm in the Chamber of Deputies over the last fifty days, is now to be approved in the Senate in the next few hours. At least the government had used these fifty days to deepen the issues with the interested groups and with those who really do agriculture and live it. In the reality of the facts we are faced with a lack of programming: we first had the 'decreeto competitiveness', which has splintered the so-called agriculture related to the finance; then there was the related, which was approved a few weeks ago, but whose iter still awaits to be concluded in the Chamber of Deputies, to finish now with Decree-Law No 51 today under consideration (Act of the Senate 1971). You see, Mr President, the problem is that agriculture needs a structural vision. If reforms are to be made, this cannot be done in such an impromptu way and, above all, uncoordinated, since within this same measure pieces of the financial link have been sucked up, which will therefore be overtaken when it is approved in the House of Deputies. I wonder then - we have already asked the Deputy Minister and the Government on previous occasions - why there is not a single measure in which to absorb everything, so as to give an organic vision and a "reset" general to the world of agriculture. Instead, we continue to work for bits and bites, then losing sight of what is an important meaning of the word "reform", the fact that we do not make fun of people, because a reform is something that must change the way we do agriculture in a positive way. In this particular case, some interventions are included in the measure, but I could list another ten which was included in the link to agriculture that the Government obviously does not consider priority and which remain firm: this is the case with the repression of the crime of food counterfeiting, a simplification in the world of agriculture. Vice-Minister, but how much paper do our farmers have to present also with respect to competitors from other European countries? And when it comes to simplification, it makes no sense to talk about it unless resources are made available. To give another example, I would like to refer here to the reduction of the agencies supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry Policy. None of this has been included in the measure, while being relegated to the bill that lies in the Chamber of Deputies pending eventual approval. I am thinking, again, of the establishment of the farmland bank and I could continue to go on with the examples. The real fact is that we do not understand at this point on the basis of what the government's priorities are dictated. There will be some ministers who will suggest them to Minister Martina or some Undersecretary who will suggest them to the President of the Council of Ministers. I hope that we do not stop there and that we do not go to take advice perhaps from the various characters who go on television to advertise their products, by putting into the legal provisions what suits them and which responds to their interest, because this would really be yet another slap in agriculture. We are also surprised, Vice-Minister, that all of our amendments aimed at removing, revising, rewording, modifying, reforming - use your preferred expression - that 'porcata', which is agricultural IMU, have been made inadmissible. However, you must be clear about this with the citizens: you cannot say one thing on the one hand and, on the other, make another. On the one hand, in fact, there is the Minister of Agriculture who continues to go to the Chamber of Deputies at every question time to reassure that the Government on the occasion of the reordering of the local tax will review the IMU and TASI, confirming - he said again last week - that the measure will be put in hand. On the other hand, there is his colleague, Minister Padoan - who I fear is a little more authoritative within the Government, because we have understood in these circumstances that Martina does not weigh anything - who says the opposite and constantly declares that there are major technical difficulties for the local tax. So there is no question of reviewing the agricultural IMU, of eliminating it and of freeing farmers. So agree at least in the Council of Ministers - I say nothing else - and avoid this nonsense which continues to be done against agriculture. Madam President, I would also like to say something else. Today, a joint session of the Senate 9th and 14th Commissions, and 13th and 14th of the Chamber of Deputies (Agriculture Commission and Political Commission of the European Union) was held. Let our fellow citizens know that I asked a very simple question to the European Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr Hogan. I asked him how they can come to tell us not to worry about TTIP (which is this notorious contract that is taking place and on which the Government puts so much trust) when they have just addressed to the Italian Government a letter with which they put the Italian Government and the Italian system in default regarding the use of milk powder in the production of cheeses, telling Italy that cheese can also be produced using milk powder. Madam President, do you know what the Commissioner has told me? He said something very simple. They have had a complaint and have addressed a request for an explanation to the Italian Government, which has not yet replied. So, Mr Martina, instead of going around cutting ribbons, give the answer to the European Commissioner. In fact, what is the effect of this? The Italian Government is now being told to remove the obligation in Italy not to produce cheese with milk powder (I remember that this constraint has existed since 1974), because a reply has not been given to the European Commissioner. Don't make me tell you what was written in some newspaper in the past few hours. The proclamations made by Minister Martina seem a little like those of the one who said "we will break the kidneys to Greece" because we risk ending up more or less in the same way in the field of agriculture. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Mussini and Simeoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u63	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u64	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, my speech focuses on a sector, the olive sector, which sees our country in second place as a world producer, after Spain, with about 500 million tonnes of olive oil. I remember that olive oil is one of the main products of our renowned Made in Italy agri-food, whose most socio-economic aspects are expressed in particular in the territories of the South. Incidentally, Madam President, allow me to make a point. The Mezzogiorno, with careful and far-sighted agricultural and forestry policies, could be - in part - the cornucopia of the country, reducing pollution from heavy industry (see ILVA), increasing national GDP and creating jobs. As for olive growing, from the cultivation of olives to the packaging of oil, the national supply chain has values of all respect. For example, I will mention some, to give you the idea of the specific weight of what is a sector that produces employment and wealth for the country: one million hectares cultivated with olive growing; 1.4 billion euros about the value of the olive plant; three billion euros about the value of the turnover generated by the industrial phase of the chain, equal to three percent of the total turnover of the agri-food industry; 673 packers, 2.624 packers with mill and 3,760 crushers in the country. With these figures it is clear to everyone that the national oil sector is a heritage that must be protected, defended and supported. According to the report on the state of agriculture 2014, edited by INEA (National Institute of Agricultural Economy), the particularly negative year of 2012, the national agricultural sector showed, during 2013, a substantial stability of production (less 0.4%) and an increase in agricultural value added at basic prices (plus 0.3%), both expressed in constant terms. The report points out that, although modest, the increase in value added is due to the good performance recorded in Puglia (plus 9.2 percent), in Veneto (plus 6.1 percent), in South Tyrol (plus 4.7 percent) and in Emilia-Romagna (plus 4 percent), unlike those recorded in the Marches, Campania and Calabria, Regions where unfortunately there has been a high reduction in value added. In monetary terms, overall agricultural production amounted to EUR 55 billion in 2013, while value added reached EUR 30 billion in 2013. According to ISTAT (the source is the labour force survey), 814,000 agricultural workers were in 2013 - 4% less than in 2012. Therefore, in not far away 2013, agriculture, agro-industry and the entire agri-food chain represented - despite the current crisis - a strong point of our economic system, with good performance in terms of GDP and added value and an employment momentum. According to Eurostat data presented at Expo on 18 June 2015, Italian agricultural production amounts to 48,486 million euros and 27,107 million euros of value added at current prices, for a total annual change of less 3.6% and less 10 percent of the real income of factors in agriculture per annual work unit. Now, with 2014 behind, a year that for the agricultural sector has seen a return to the values of 2012, between adverse and calamitous weather events, devastating infections such as those from xylella that have hit the oil industry heavily, at the end of the year the government has thought to give the decisive blow by imposing a new tax on agricultural property, the IMU, that has brought in the coffers of the State just 600 million euros, but that in fact is pushing the sector towards the disaster, sowing dismay in the operators, especially among the younger generations. I say this to mention only one of the ruins made by the government that today, with the measure under consideration, does not revive the agricultural sector. In my view, from a financial point of view, this measure addresses the problems in an inadequate and partial way, with insufficient funds that will still lead to difficulties for the agricultural sector. Allow me to digression: measures that increase taxes on a given productive sector, in this case with the introduction of the agricultural IMU, the increase of excise duties on agricultural diesel and the simultaneous reduction of the quota of facilitation on the excise duties of agricultural diesel, bring resources immediately in the coffers of the State (which does not want to know to put hand to a serious spending review), but punctually they produce devastating effects in terms of closing the enterprises (we have irreparably lost 19,035 companies, with a decrease of less 2.5%), occupational consequences, reduction of the consumption and collapse of the income. Madam President, I begin by returning to the oil sector on behalf of the Italian Conservatories and Reformists Group, to represent an emblematic picture by comparing the numbers represented by one of the Southern regions particularly devoted to oil production, Puglia, and the few resources made available by the measure to deal with the emergencies affecting the sector and in particular the region. We are talking about only EUR 32 million in three years to relaunch the agricultural sector in the face of an area covered by olive growing, only in Puglia, of about 375,000 hectares (equivalent to 32% of national olive groves) and about 270,000 agricultural enterprises, equal to 22% of Italian olive farms. In the national olive grove, Puglia is also characterized by the oil with a protected designation of origin, with a higher turnover in Italy (€28 million), representing at the same time 35% of the total turnover of extra virgin oils marked PDO or PGI. Finally, with regard to international trade in the sector, olive oil represents the third most exported Apulian product, worth around 106 million euros, amounting to almost 9% of the export of oil from Italy (1,2 billion euros of olive oil exported in 2012 alone). In short, representatives of the Government, in front of these numbers you put resources only for 32 million euros in three years, very minimal resources in front of the potential of the sector that represents the national olive oil heritage. In the year of Expo, therefore, the attitude adopted by the Government is a clear contradiction, almost an oxymoron to the philosophy of the Universal Exposition in progress in Milan, with its guessed slogan: "Feeding the planet". Let us begin to do this through the enhancement of biodiversity, typicality, authenticity of cultivation and processing; that is, greater attention must be paid to PDO, DOC and PGI productions. For example, for years the farmers, the farmers and the various producers of the dairy chain of Murgia dei Trulli have been waiting for the recognition of the typical mozzarella worked in braid. The Ministry is a merchant's ear and the bitterness of the Apulians is so much, especially, Mr Olivero, with the aberrant prospect of eating mozzarella with milk powder in the near future, as Brussels wishes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u65	We greet the President of the Internal Affairs Committee of the House of Commons Keith Vaz and the British Ambassador to Italy Christopher Prentice. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u66	Senator Scilipoti Isgrò is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u67	Madam President, every one of us, by intervening, would hope to make a contribution and many times try to find some news to bring to the attention of the House. The news is many, many; then in the selection, many times, we do not have the gift of synthesis, so we lose ourselves. That is why I have tried to put my speech on paper, which I hope I will be able to finish. If I fail to do so, Madam President, I would ask you right now to be able to attach it to the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u68	We'll see when you've finished your speech, Senator Scilypoti, because we know how he moves.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u69	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you for your kindness, Madam President. Today we have all learned from the newspapers that there is an ultimatum on the part of the European Commission in calling on Italy to intervene immediately and to amend Law No 138 of 11 April 1974. This amendment - dear President, you know it better than I do - is a law that protects not only Made in Italy products and quality products, but also the lives of citizens, not only Italians, but also Europeans and the world. Yet the ultimatum that comes to us from the European Community is to repeal this law, to give the possibility of making cheese - I say it in clear words, to understand us and to make it clear to those who listen to us - without milk. They had already explained to us, those of the European Community, that it is important to make wine without grapes and that they had tried to explain to us that it is important to make chocolate without cocoa. And then we can no longer actually understand who is right and who is wrong and we question each other all the time. We hear, however, also in this House, eminent experts in some areas, but in particular some who have been points of reference in our public life as Italians and Europeans, say that it is almost a criminal act not to try to make genetically modified products in Italy as well. As a doctor and as a politician I ask myself a question: who makes these statements is aware that the genetically modified product does not contain a substance fundamental to life called melatonin? Has he wondered why the lack of this substance within the genetically modified product? What is melatonin and why does the genetically modified product not contain it? We hear illustrious colleagues telling us that the genetically modified product must also take shape and foot in our country, but another strong reflection was made by the colleagues of the League. A Senator of the Group quoted an initial, I think he was referring to the Transatlantic Free Trade Treaty. My dear colleague, but how can we make free trade when certain substances are highly toxic to us, so they cannot be - and are not - marketed in our country, when in other countries, even within the European Union and outside the European Union, they are marketed and used with great normality. An example in this sense are the mono and diglycerides of fatty acids. Perhaps using such a complicated term many fail to understand what we are talking about, but it is a substance that, introduced into the organism through the food in which it is contained, changes the cell's rate of growth and alters cell membranes, which is the first step to the establishment of a degenerative disease with consequences that we commonly call neoplastic pathologies. [[Applause from Senator Simenoni.]] Madam President, of course each of us would like to make a contribution, but many times we find ourselves in great difficulty and then, in order not to get lost in the chatter and in all the reflections that go through my mind, I would like to give, for the sake of synthesis and brevity, a reading of my hope for a brief speech. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, and representatives of the Government, today we are examining Decree-Law No 51 which the Government has adopted, as the title says, for the revival of the agricultural sectors in crisis and to provide support for agricultural enterprises affected by exceptional events. An urgent measure to revitalize an agricultural sector, which has shown for too many years signs of an increasingly serious decline and crisis. We are witnessing this crisis by listening to the agricultural enterprises of our territories and the workers of the sector and we have also confirmed by the official figures, which I quote briefly. ISTAT data for 2014 describe an agricultural production sector that is in a situation of increasing difficulty: last year the added value of agriculture reached 31.5 billion euros, equal to 2.2% of nominal GDP, showing a strong decline, equal to 6.6 percent compared to 2013. The causes, according to the institute of statistics, are to be found once again in the climatic factors, which have adversely affected the development of the agricultural year and have contributed to the heavy falls of the wine productions (less 12.5 percent) and of the olive ones (less 34.4 percent). Moreover, the sharp fall in prices of products sold (less than 3.6%) contributed to the fall in agricultural incomes. Once again, unfortunately, the data confirm the chronic imbalances between the areas of our country: at the territorial level, production in agriculture "grows" only in the North-East (2.2% more), while the largest declines in production are in the South (less 6.5 percent) and in the islands (less 3.9 percent). Speaking of islands and southern Italy, I would like once again to draw the attention of the Government to the serious situation of difficulties facing the agricultural sector in Sicily, hit also in 2014 by hailstorms and air trumpets that have accentuated its problematicities in recent years: according to the last ISMEA report, Sicily is among the regions where there are the most sustained declines in the presence of agricultural enterprises (less 3.1 percent). Among the productions of excellence in difficulty, in addition to that of wheat, I would like to mention that of citrus fruits and wines. The first showed 20 percent decrease in the production of white oranges and 30 percent decrease in the production of red IPG oranges in the last months of 2014. The production of wine has recorded constant decreases of the cultivated areas: from almost 170,000 hectares in the eighties up to 100,000 (or a little more) last year, resulting in a reduction of the enterprises and the jobs (50,000 employed less from 1993 to 2012). Moreover, there is a continuing decline in investments in the agricultural sector, involving agricultural machinery, equipment, non residential buildings and means of transport: in the period 2006-2014 there was a decrease of 26%. The Government adopts this measure precisely to reverse the heavy negative trend just described and to cope with emerging situations that need rapid and effective responses. At the general level, I would like to stress that the agricultural sector has already been the subject of numerous regulatory interventions by this Government, often fragmented and confusing, inserted within heterogeneous texts and never effective and decisive; interventions that are not part of an organic and structured policy, but that are the result of hasty and poorly thought-out political choices. Inevitable therefore a medium to long-term strategy and wide-ranging actions for an overall relaunch of our country's agriculture. To remember the unjust tax that is called agricultural IMU: we are for total abolition... PRESIDENT. Senator Scilipoti, please conclude. He's finished his time. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Please give me a few more seconds. I would also ask that the remaining part of my speech be attached to the Reports of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). In conclusion, we are for total abolition but, once again, this Government has failed to meet its promises and failed to meet its expectations. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u71	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in 2013 agriculture and agro-industry represented a strong point of our economic system: good performance in terms of GDP and added value, employment momentum accompanied by an increase in members of agricultural faculties and agricultural technical institutes. In less than a year the Renzi Government has brought back the deep red in the agricultural and agro-industrial sector. The latest data published in March by ISTAT photograph a sector suffering in terms of employment, value added and export, also due to restrictions with Russia and Ukraine. In particular, in 2014 the entrepreneurial fabric lost 19,035 companies, with a decrease of 2.5%, well above what is observed for the whole economy (-0.3 percent). On the other hand, the expansion of the food industry alone continues in 2014. These data photograph the failure of the Renzi government. As usual, as in all the measures and pseudoreforms approved so far, the great announcements of the Premier are opposed to a depressing reality: the economic turning point is promised and, instead, the stagnation of the existing situation or, in some cases, the worsening of the conditions of the citizens affected by the decisions of the Government is produced. It is enough to think, in order to remain on the subject of the so-called revival of the agricultural sector, of the introduction of the IMU, which my colleagues have already mentioned, of the new tax on agricultural property, which - in the face of an income of EUR 600 million for the state's coffers - has given the blow of grace to many agricultural enterprises, which were already on the verge of the abyss. If we wanted to continue to describe the frustrations of our farmers, we should mention the cut on agricultural gas oil and the total absence of policies to protect our products of excellence, which were paradoxically recorded during Expo 2015 and the Italian Presidency. But if we wanted plastically to portray the inefficiency and the inconclusion of the Renzi Government the best image would come from sterile, contradictory and shriveled actions of contrast to the emergency xylella. Here the government has given the worst of itself, plundering and jeopardising specific measures and congruent resources in the face of an emergency, which has now become of a national character. In fact, to date southern Puglia has perhaps one million plants infected with the bacteria. It seems that the weakest trees and predisposed to rapid desiccation are the oldest and that, however, even the youngest and most resistant plants are destined to be incinerated. Farmers only hope for research. We too trust in the commitment of scientists, but the state of research in agriculture is uncomfortable: not one euro has been allocated to date by the national government. I remember, and I remind the whole Assembly, that the first funds were allocated by the Stability Act for 2014 in December 2013, only 5 million euros, then became only 3.5 because of the cuts of the Tuscan fabulator aimed at finding additional resources for the infamous gift of 80 euros. Until January 2015, scientific institutions have worked with the resources - very few - made available by the Puglia Region and without personnel because blocked by the limits of the Stability Pact. The last drama that is being consumed is the contrast between the environmentalists, who have returned among the olive trees and fear the further poisoning of the countryside with chemicals, and those who push to use improbable pesticides as a falsely lethal weapon. Among the side effects of the xylella emergency was added the ban imposed by regional, national and Community rules aimed at blocking the marketing of plants from all the nurseries in the province of Lecce. These are various types of nurseries (flowers, ornamental plants, vines, fruit trees). In fact, with the exception of some plants, most of the contracts already under way have been suspended and sales have almost zeroed. In particular, for vine nurseries, Article 9 of Implementing Decision No 789 of last May of the European Commission effectively prohibits movement and marketing, although it has not been found on this plant either development of infection or symptoms. The impact of the suspension of sales has been particularly serious and economically significant for various reasons: the plants in the nurseries need to be kept in excellent vegetation, leading to large maintenance costs, but without any revenue for the sale. For many types of plants the stay in the nursery of one or two years beyond the necessary does not allow the sale of the same, as no longer marketable. In addition, the total absence of buyers has been determined both within the province and outside the province, influenced by the information on this plant protection emergency that is spread daily by the mass media. In addition to the loss of plants and the loss of income, it is necessary to consider the enormous damage suffered by the socio-economic input linked to the nursery sector. In view of the problems described, the Commission would have had to take action to encourage research in order to better study the causes of the spread of the pathogen and the vector, identifying suitable measures to cure olive trees. It should also have provided incentives for farmers implementing preventive measures, granting tax relief or special subsidies. Finally, in the nursery sector, it should have implemented a production certification plan, attesting the quality of the product and preventing the other Member States from effectively blocking exports which have taken place for a few months now. All these requirements find no recognition, much less a solution, in the decree-law to our examination, that does not allocate to a satisfactory extent interventions for research, resources for the certification of the production of nurseries and sums to be allocated to the refreshment of the economic damage suffered by the same nursery enterprises, that have recorded the mockery to operate in a territory hit by xylella, receiving the same damages of the olive farms, even without any infection received from the aforementioned bacteria. This measure also shows that the agricultural sector is becoming less and less strategic for the current government. We do not solve the crucial problems of agriculture, we continue to liven up and even in the face of hailed emergencies such as that of xylella we give birth to fake solutions, rejecting amendments and proposals for modifications, as in the transition to the House. In the meantime, farmers, who suffer the damage of the emergency, are lost and now have a well-founded perception that the competent public institutions, the Government, the Regions and the European Commission, are unable to solve the problem and, indeed, continue to complicate the lives of companies with incomprehensible decisions. To conclude, the great moloch of European and Italian bureaucracy, rather than facilitating the heavy task of every farmer, every day increases its difficulty and poses increasingly insurmountable obstacles to the solution of the problems outlined above. The above considerations confirm, therefore, the thesis of the inadequacy of the policies of the Ministry of Agricultural Policies and reaffirm the inadequacy of the Government and the President of the Council to address any emergency problem, convincing us of the lack of usefulness and the ephemeral effects of Decree-Law No 51 of which we are discussing today. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u72	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u73	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, we are aware of all the fictions that are being implemented in these measures. If we read the measure, we must recognize that we are dealing with objectively serious, positive and certainly urgent issues; but, if we go digging, we see that there is no will to do what is supposed to be illustrated in this text. A little observation. We have always criticized the urgent decree because, of course, it is a system that takes away the powers of a Parliament to deal with a matter, to implement and to amend. We allow that, if there is an urgency, we must intervene, also with the instrument of the decree-law. Well, I don't know if you have noticed that in this legislature you have already issued more than 30 decrees-laws but, in agriculture, that's all. It is clear from this that the government has not given a great deal of urgency to the issue of agriculture. What would be needed, and that does not appear anywhere, would be the screening of the sector. The agriculture sector is composed of a myriad of micro and mini-businesses, sometimes consorted and sometimes grouped into cooperatives, which have a characteristic: an advanced age of all the employees of the sector. First of all, for young people this is an unappetizing sector, because it is a massacred job. In agriculture we work three hundred sixty-five days a year, but the main factor, perhaps, is that no young person succeeds in achieving, standing, and not even taking over a family business: while assuming that among several subjects there is only one who wants to manage it and carry it forward, this would not have the financial capacity to pay the joint heirs in order to do this type of work. Therefore, if this sector is to continue, young people must be allowed access to self-entrepreneurship. This is an area that you never touch and you completely forget. After that, consistency and linearity are needed. Do we want to help this sector or do we use it and we just need it to squeeze it? It is said that we want to help it, but excise duties on agricultural diesel are increased; it is said that we want to help it but we introduce a tax, the silliest and most unjust that there is, on agricultural land, as if they were productive land of other nature; we introduce for the first time a tax that goes to burden the already very low incomes of the most rude sector that we have. In our country there were also weather events in calamitous, earthquakes and floods, which clearly put in great difficulty all sectors, including agricultural activities. Well, what was the state's response? A small ridiculous answer, if we want: tax burdens have been delayed. Nothing was touched at all. There was a slight delay, for the rest, then, they claimed in total all taxes subject to delays. The sector was standing. Medium and large companies still had an ability to produce and find an external market, since the internal market, in all sectors including agriculture, has marked a sharp reduction; well, our government has followed the Americans, the US, the EU directives, sanctioning Russia, for the well-known issues relating to Ukraine, and this has responded with sanctions. Now we have the numbers... president. Divine Senator, please finish. DIVINE (LN-Aut). I'm gonna go finish, ma'am. In 2014 we lost almost 1.5 billion euros. The 2015 estimates speak of a loss of 3 billion on exports. This is foreign policy, but if foreign policy is reverberated on the domestic policy it must be understood that the sector is always that. Punish him with your right hand or your left hand but it's always that. Finally, we come to what we hope the current Government will have the courage to take hold, avoiding following the European Union's directives to produce cheese that is basically milk-free. It would be the blow of grace to the dairy sector, one of the flagship flowers of our agriculture and also our exports because the Italian gastronomy still has a brand, a name and its market. We blocked the government - Mr Candiani spoke of TTIP - when he wanted to follow American standards, that is to age wine no longer in barrels, in barriques, but using shavings. The time needed for the aging of six, twelve or eighteen months was reduced to a few weeks, but it was not the same product. [[Call the president back.]] That would have altered - and I finished President - the peculiarities of our great wines, and now we are also trying to do so with our cheeses. If you do not intervene, we can only urge you. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u74	As previously stated, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, in the afternoon session of tomorrow, the Minister for Economic Affairs, having received the Government's willingness, will inform you of developments in Greece's debt situation. Groups will be able to intervene for five minutes. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). What time? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, we have to define this tomorrow during the meeting of the group leader. In fact, since you have interrupted me, I would inform the whole House that it would be useful, when it is requested to speak at the end of the sitting, to do so half an hour before the end of the sitting. I remember it especially to Senators Candiani and Paola Nugnes. That is what happened today, but for the next few times we can adjust differently for the speeches. I'm saying this for all of us.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u78	GIROTTO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, citizens who listen to us, by a unanimous vote of May 2015, the City Council of Eraclea, a small fraction in the Province of Venice, expressed itself for the total and firm opposition to any exploration, research and cultivation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea and asked the Government for the immediate suspension of any iter authorization of such activities as well as the commitment to permanently prevent drilling, also through the abolition of Article 38 of the so-called Italian decree unblocks. The request of this Municipality to the Government is motivated by the risks that are perceived by the territories of the communities resident on the Venetian coast compared to the mining activities at sea. As the 5 Star Movement has repeatedly expressed itself, the entire City Council of Heraclea is concerned that the rapid bureaucratic process granted to mining activities with the release of Italy, the concessions of the Croatian Government to 19 platforms, which will begin to extract from 2019, and the damage that the Adriatic marine system will suffer from the mining activities, can compromise the environment and tourism, which is, yes, the main industry on the Venetian coast, thanks to which 32 million annual presences are produced and thousands and thousands of workers are employed, which also feeds the induced inland and is capable of generating significant local and state taxes. These are the same taxes that are then also used to pay our allowances. To the City of Heraclea go therefore our applause and the full support for a wise choice, that puts it in opposition to the decision of the Government (opposition that therefore sees the 5 Star Movement at his side). We hope that this initiative from below will be replicated by many other local authorities and supported by representatives of the territorial productive realities, by associations of the world of tourism, fisheries and the environment, so that the impositions from above of unsustainable and destructive choices of the beauty of our land, of our entire Venetian coast - and not only, of course - will be returned to the sender who has understood that his own growth and his own future reside in the protection of the territory, in the tourism development, in sustainable fishing, in the quality agriculture and in the valorization of the local excellences, and not in that oligopoly that enriches very few people, to the detriment of many others, to which he causes suffering and damage, and that it responds to the name of the industry of fossil fuels. No, therefore, to environmental devastation and oligopoly; yes to widespread and democratic development and respect for the covenant never written, but no less fundamental for this, with future generations. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u81	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the day before yesterday, 28 June, the first European Olympic Games were concluded with a splendid closing ceremony in Baku, Azerbaijan. Azerbaijan won the nomination in 2012 and, from now on, the European Games will take place every four years. It was an excellent opportunity to facilitate the sports infrastructure of the country and also a great opportunity for the younger generations to confront a large-scale event: hundreds and hundreds of young people were involved in the operating committee, who have gained experience and will be able to promote and help organize similar events; there were a total of 20 sports, of which 16 Olympics and four non-Olympics, and more than 6,000 athletes, for a total of 46 participating countries. The president of the Italian National Olympic Committee, Giovanni Malagò, at the opening ceremony, attended by 15 Presidents, leaders official representatives, including our undersecretary at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers De Vincenti, highlighted the importance of Baku 2015, as it offers opportunities for qualification for the Olympic Games in Rio in 2016. The Olympic Games in Baku offered an exceptional opportunity to show Azerbaijan to the world as a European country, a secular Muslim state, a bridge between East and West, an example for all Muslim countries. Absolute freedom of worship and respect for other religions reach the highest level in Azerbaijan: for example, when Ramadan begins, the imam invites the bishop, the rabbi and the patriarch; at Christmas, vice versa, the bishop invites representatives of all other religions. This is true religious integration, not as often happens in Italy, unfortunately, when they remove the crib or Christmas tree in order not to offend Muslim children, thus offending our Catholic traditions. I want to thank our Italian athletes: Italy has ranked sixth, with ten gold medals in various disciplines, such as archery, fencing and swimming. I really want to thank them, because at least they brought the Italian flag to Europe and to the world. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and the Divine Senator.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u84	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, the night between 27 and 28 June there was a fire in the illegal landfill of Colle Marconi, between the municipalities of Chieti and Bucchianico. The dramatic situation of the landfill has been known since 2009 and is still the subject of an ongoing process. Never, however, has anyone provided to clean up the approximately 4,000 square meters forgotten by all politics: exhausted batteries, Solvay marked bags and probably hospital waste. The fire of Colle Marconi arrives a short distance from the inquiry of the newspaper "Il Centro" (The Center), which has shown the lack of acquisition of important documents in the proceedings: papers that for years have taken dust and that today, by chance, are lost, exploded in the cage in which they were kept. A fire started by several points - therefore very knowingly - that smokes up the evidence linking the Abruzzo landfills to that of Acerra. Meanwhile, the Abruzzo people breathe toxic clouds of dioxin, since it was not enough to poison them with the waters contaminated by the dump in Bussi. We citizens will be asking a question about this new land of fires. Already last year we citizens, and not politicians, have identified and reported a dossier with over 1,000 polluted sites in Abruzzo. If the President of the Council had not dried up, in order to buy the European elections, the national, regional and municipal coffers, these bodies, which we have notified for over a year now, could have financed the Bonifications of sites at risk. I know that this government does not like questions, and that it is its tradition not to answer them, but this time we will need a reply with very convincing words and facts, otherwise the next flames we will see could be those of the torches of the citizens who threatened to come under Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u87	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I know this weekly newspaper that is distributed on newsstands in the Province of Varese: it is called "Lombardia Oggi" (Lombardy Today), it comes out every week together with the newspaper "La Prealpina" (Prealpina), and it is very widespread. This week the title is "Beware of the thief" and brings the image of a thief who is breaking in. Inside there are more or less ten pages that concern only the numbers on the thefts in the apartment, obviously with all the good practices - let's call them that - to defend themselves from thieves. Now, the paradox - and I quote just a few passages - is that of Deputy Minister Costa, who announces that there are rules under consideration to ensure an effective penalty for authors and a prolonged rehabilitation path that allows monitoring by the public authority. The thefts in the dwellings are 689 a day, that is 29 every hour. Over the past ten years it has increased from 110,887 to 251,422, with an increase of 5.9 percent only in the last year. In Milan there was a growth of 229 percent from 2004 to 2013. The fact of the matter is that what is described in this article ignores one detail: it does not take into account all the empty prison measures that have been approved in Parliament by the majority, including the last in the area of decriminalisation. Just a few days ago I was talking to a carabiniere in the Province of Varese - which I do not want to put in trouble - who told me that, after stopping and arresting or, better, after having blocked an individual who had 3 kilograms of hashish with him, he had to release him because the proxy did not validate his detention, believing that it was a small matter: I remember that we are talking about 3 kilograms of hashish. President, the paradox on which I want to draw attention and which really needs to make us reflect is that of a country in which public opinion itself is accustomed to thinking that it is the citizen who must lock himself in a cage, because the thieves the cages do not end up there anymore and this is not good. I understand that work and business can also be created for those who sell anti-thefts, door cylinders, security systems and video surveillance, but such a country does not reflect honest citizens, who do not have to stay in a cage, but must be able to stay at home serene. We hope that this serenity will be possible and on this I really ask for a reflection, otherwise with this "attendant to the thief" we venture towards a future far from serene. [[Applause from Senator Divine.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u90	NUGNES (M5S). Madam President, I rise to call for the response to integration 4-03688, which was presented on 24 March. This is a question which calls for the reasons for the behaviour of ENEL, a giant in a real monopoly that is no longer public but now private, which risks destroying small and medium-sized businesses. Indeed, in the energy sector, free competition is likely to end where the interests of ENEL begin, which decides on the survival of its competitors. One of their members is Esperia SpA, the first to enter the open market sixteen years ago following the Bersani decree. In the litigation ended in court is the whole limit of liberalization done in half. In 1999 the competition sector was opened, allowing those who want to buy and sell energy, but not to distribute it. In fact, the final distribution networks are in the hands of ENEL, which sets the price of transport through concession contracts, where the costs are charged in the bill - and they are 53% - and anticipated by the operators who become so collectors on behalf of the company, which at the same time is also the dominant operator of the market. In this imbalance the story of Esperia is inscribed, which is likely to be bad school if the competent authorities do not give the right answers in time. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u91	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-06-30-LEG17-Senato-sed-474.ana.u92	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 1 July, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.08.
