ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 24 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u3	I inform you that Parliament is convened at 1 p.m. on Tuesday 1 December for the vote on the election of three judges of the Constitutional Court. The call will begin with the senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u4	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time), pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, on the problems of the dairy sector and the prospects of Italian agricultural companies after Expo 2015, to which the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Dr Martina, will respond. It should be noted that RAI's live television is underway. Let us now turn to questions on the problems of the dairy sector. Senators may ask their questions to the Minister for two minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u7	SAGGESE (PD). Madam President, Minister, today we are talking about the dairy sector, which is one of the most important for the world of Italian agro-food and for the entire Italian economy, as is shown by the fact that Italy is one of the biggest producers of PDO cheeses, whose growth is showing a positive trend over the last thirty-five years. We therefore understand the tensions, the various events and the concerns which have recently arisen with regard to the price of milk, which have seen a conflict between producers, farmers and the dairy industry. In other words, there was a clear and very strong contrast between the two: milk is sold at a figure which producers believe is not sufficient to cover the costs, on the other hand the industries, which are strong in their bargaining power, are trying instead to keep prices low. Therefore, on the basis of these assumptions, I am pleased to learn from the press agencies a few hours ago that a difficult negotiation has finally ended today, characterized also by various attempts and tensions, which led to a conciliation, the most important result of which was to have the two parties dialogue, reducing the contrasts between the operators in the sector. I would therefore ask you to explain to us and give us an assessment of the terms of the agreement reached.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u10	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, kind Minister, the milk quota regime was applied in 1983 by the then European Economic Community with the aim of limiting over-production and curbing the fall in prices. The quotas allocated to Italy, amounting to about eight million tonnes (heavy penalties for those who produced a larger quantity), were immediately lower than the requirements. This, on the one hand, forced our country to subduce, with heavy losses for the entire sector, on the other has generated about 4.4 billion fines for Italian farmers. At the beginning of the 1990s in Italy there were 130,000 stables and today there are only 30,000 (there was therefore a loss of 100,000 stables), which produce milk of higher quality and clearly at higher prices than in other European countries: in fact, it is estimated that one litre of milk in Italy costs 35 cents of euro, while in Lithuania only 19, so we produce below cost. The Minister is therefore asked how he intends to intervene in order to prevent the damage caused at the end of the quota system from affecting the whole dairy sector, particularly small farms and those located in mountain areas, where it is difficult to pursue objectives of scale economy and where the need for support is greater also in relation to the maintenance of the territory. It is also asked to know how it intends to prevent the closure of the Italian stables, in the light of the fact that the selling price, as I said before, is lower than the cost of production and, finally, if it intends to fight, in the European Commission, to make compulsory the indication on the label of the country of origin of the milk, in order to give an effective protection to the quality of our milk and therefore also an added value.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u13	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, Minister, the dairy sector is in great difficulty: 32 cents per litre of milk (this until yesterday, today 36 cents per litre) do not give way, but the difficulties come from far away. The cows certified as at 1 December 2014 from the national database (including the cow-vintage line) since 2006 by the EC are 1,276,577; multiplying this number by 87,3 quintals of milk produced per cow (data AIA 2014 out of 18,036 stables) is obtained a value that is below the European limit. I therefore ask you to know what the reasons for the fine are. Over the last four years, it has not broken down and the trend in the number of cows has been down (40,000 less in the last four years); I therefore wonder how more milk can be produced with fewer cows. What algorithm did the Minister use in September 2014 to say that in the 2014-2015 vintage we would produce more milk, with the data of the only four months April-July 2014? Why charge a fine for just over 2,000 farmers when 13,000 splaphones have been used? By applying Regulation No 1234 of 1987, Article 80 (3) you could have charged all four euros per quintal in three years. Why are they charging 100 million in the face of a $30 million fine? Even the TARs, including Brescia's, ask for it. The maneuvers are also very confusing: given 108 million last year, then removed 28 for the xylella and 23 in this stability. I therefore ask what solutions, especially in the future, you want to consider, because short-term solutions are not enough. I would also ask you whether the difficulties in the advance payments of the CAP in certain regions are due to a regional problem or whether they are due to an AGEA problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u16	Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the signing of the supply chain agreement is certainly good news, but we are well aware of the suffering of the dairy sector and the suffering of so many producers and therefore of so many families and we also know that this suffering has a number of national causes, specifically Italian, and a number of international, specifically Community causes. The two questions that I ask you distinguish these two situations. From the point of view of the national case, in the law of stability that we approved at first reading in the Senate we foresee some precise and useful rules for the sector (i.e. raising among all the percentage of VAT compensation for the supply of fresh milk) and however in the same law there is also a rule that raises me a lot of doubts, that is the reduction of the allocation for the investment fund. Mr Minister, what can we do to ensure that positive measures are accompanied by other positive measures and not by this denial? From a Community point of view, we are well aware that the end of the milk quota system, inevitable and just, has caused great uncertainty and must be replaced by a new system. What is the new Government doing in our country to take very strong account of Italian prerogatives when defining the new Community rules?
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u19	STEFANO (Misto-PugliaMiù-Sel). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you come to this House today to respond to the problems of the dairy sector a few hours after the agreement reached, as my colleagues have reminded my colleagues, between Lactalis and the agricultural organisations on the price of milk, which I believe remains the focal point of this sector. An agreement, today's one, to which must be associated the choice, always made by the Ministry, regarding the commitment of exceptional aid, referred to in the delegated regulation of the European Commission last 15 October. A choice, to what I read from the agencies, according to which the 25 million euros previewed will be used directly in favor of the breeders with an impact of an extra cent per liter of milk sold in the next trimester. To date, therefore, by making a quick and summary calculation, the price of milk could be attested in the next three months, assuming that the indication of the European fund's allotment goes into port, at just under 37 cents per litre. I would therefore ask you, Minister, if you do not think that, at this very delicate time, this aid should be pulverized in accordance with the methods used by the press agencies, it does not constitute a lack of opportunity to start a phase of strengthening and structuring a key part of the primary chain, and if you do not think that the measure taken on the use of the funds referred to in the aforementioned regulation may incur a further infringement procedure because it can be associated with the case of State aid, of which the European Union has always called us to respond in the past.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u22	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, Minister, the situation in the dairy sector, and in particular that of fresh milk, is well known and has already been highlighted in the previous speeches. We must pay attention to a synthesis that took place on the market, because today we are with Parmalat, Galbani, Invernizzi and Locatelli substantially brought back under a single property, which is that of Lactalis. It is therefore a substantial monopoly operation which has put the sector in difficulty and has folded. Monopolies are not good for those who produce and do not do good for those who buy, because they lose control of both the quality of the products and, as in this case, the cost. We find ourselves with producers who are choked and at a cost of sale at source which does not substantially cover the cost of breeding the animals themselves. We are happy with this step forward on the cost allocated, which goes up to 36 cents per litre, but that is not enough. It must be borne in mind that our farmers must bear production costs also linked to the bureaucratic structure, which creates difficulties. Of course - and that is why we call for an important intervention - we must also make it clear in Europe that our productions cannot always be discriminated against in relation to those of other European countries. Italy is a country that imports more milk than it produces, but that has found itself living paradoxical situations, with milk that was not even sold because it was below cost. In view of this, Madam President, it must also be considered the loss of value: the stables are closed and the thousand that close (using a thousand as a standard number) 60% are located in the mountains, in areas to be protected. Minister, let us ask you what is the work that the working group is doing, which you have indicated as a point of reference, whether it is just to reach a different quotation or whether there are other choices that it will bring to the European table and that it will share with other countries. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Dr Martina.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u23	Madam President, I would like to thank the senators for this opportunity, which comes on a very important day for the Italian Ministry and for the Italian dairy sector, precisely for the reasons you mentioned earlier. In the meantime, I think you should take into account the work of these hours in the Ministry. On the one hand, we have favoured, as we could, within the framework of our competences, the element of novelty, which is very important in my opinion, given the agreement between one of the most important dairy industries in our territory and the producer organisations. It is a new point on the specific theme of the price of milk, with particular reference to this farm, but of course also in relation to the whole Italian milk industry. This novelty, in my opinion, is very important, because it objectively marks a qualitative leap, at least in the management of the coming months, which are delicate because they are also months of transition between one year and the other and bring us closer to the expiry of the company contracts attested especially in the spring of 2016. It is an important fact that within a few weeks, thanks to the Ministry's activity, we arrive at the definition of a price at the stable significantly higher than what we had until a few days ago. That jump from 32.9 to 36 cents per liter is by no means trivial in a contingency as complicated as the one we are experiencing. I add to this element of novelty that has affected the parties and that we have favoured, the overall supply chain agreement, which, on the other hand - this is true - was actually formalized and signed first by the undersigned and then also by the associative representatives of the world of production, processing and distribution, unitarily (other given anything but trivial at this juncture). This supply chain agreement, which accompanies today's work day, is, in my view, a very useful new point, especially for the work that we must do in the coming weeks, and it completes a strategy that the Ministry has pursued so far and which has a lot to do with the work that this House - and Parliament all - has developed, both with the law of stability, and with some previous interventions. I recall in particular the decree-law of May, then converted into Law No. 91 of 2015. We have been working for a long time on the livestock sector, particularly on the dairy border, precisely because of the change of scenery that the end of milk quotas has led to in Italy and not only; we have done so on the European side, engaging, first, with France, Spain and Portugal, an initiative aimed at the European Commission and which led the European Commission to allocate those 500 million euros extraordinary aid to the livestock sector, from which the 25 that we have decided today to allocate in this way. I fully claim the Italian, French, Spanish and Portuguese initiative, because without this quartet we would not have arrived at the extraordinary Council in September and we could not have had this extraordinary ceiling of 500 million Europeans and 25 million Italians. It seems to me to be a starting point for us and to start by reflecting on the new activities in Europe - and then I will talk about it - which we must absolutely engage in in the coming weeks. Today's agreement, the supply chain agreement, first of all defines the destination of these EUR 25 million as a unit; among other things, they will never be considered State aid, simply because it is extraordinary aid intended by the European Union, so they are out of the scope of a dispute related to the legal issue of State aid (I would like to reassure you on that). We are setting aside precisely these 25 million in conjunction with the agreement that has been made precisely to manage the next three months. I would also like to point out the combination between the parties' choice, the supply chain agreement on the cent, and not only (and I shall also mention this) and the new elements contained in the Stability Act (it has been mentioned before: the increase in compensation from 8.8% to 10%, with a further 32 million allocated to the sector, and the effect of the abolition of IMU-IRAP) give a whole range of interventions on the side of the agricultural undertaking, in particular the livestock company and more specifically in the Italian livestock system, far from trivial in its actual terms, in terms of tax savings, and therefore of greater economic allocations for business budgets. I refer, for example, a figure I know quite closely: an average Lombard livestock company with a turnover of about 400,000 euros, already only for the combined IMU-IRAP, has a tax discount of about 12,000 euros. If you add the VAT and the novelties we have defined with the combination of the agreements of today, I say that in the instrumentation given today on the side of public interventions we have deployed as much as possible. I would also like to point out something that may be useful to this Assembly: when this country faced the last major dairy crisis in 2008-2009, when once again the great theme of price definition and a complicated dynamic between producers, processors and distributors presented itself, this country responded to that crisis, which is essentially comparable to this crisis, simply by using an extraordinary budget of the European Union of 30 million and that is all, nothing else happened. I think that we are faced with a set of interventions that instead prefigure a much more in-depth and much more open and capable of affecting some short-term levers, certainly not giving up to outline some medium-term strategies. The agreement signed today basically allows us to imagine concretely the activation of a method of indexing on the price, from March onwards, taking into account the Italian parameters and definitively abandoning what has been attempted in recent months by some parties (the milk industry and the world side of production), that is, to implement in this country a German-like indexation mechanism (using some German benchmark). This is a very controversial issue, in my opinion rightly, from the sector, and it is now definitively abandoned by all the experience of the Italian milk industry: far from trivial, and for this I really must thank all the parties for the work they have done. For the first time we also bring to an agreement on the dairy sector the large-scale organized distribution, with a mechanism for responsible distribution that has not been seen for a long time. I would stress that, from this point of view, we have also defined an extraordinary activity of promotion, starting from the Italian PDOs and PGIs, which in the coming weeks will see concretely its first activation in relation to the great Italian distribution. I also recall the interventions that have been made by this Government precisely with the famous law n. 91 of 2015, when, even before the emerging theme of the price, we set ourselves the theme of an innovation in the organizational tools of the supply chain. Hence the decision to regulate in a different way the interprofessional mechanisms, hoping that even in this country one can actually activate an interprofessional milk, as has always been the case in all European countries; hence the possibility of widening the compensation for the last season of the milk quotas, possibility that has allowed to compensate to about 1,300 breeders more than the old Zaia law (other data anything but insignificant); hence the activation, for the first time in this country, of a norm that writes a fact for me banal, but that was not trivial until we put it into law, that is that they do, also for the dairy sector, annual written contracts. I would point out that until July last year we did not have an instrument to be able to actually demand annual written contracts on this side. I apologize if I have extended, but I had to represent this effort, which makes me say that we certainly have not overcome the complex problems of this sector, which are problems of an organizational nature and which are rooted in very sensitive issues. They certainly have to do with some of the issues that have been mentioned by the senators in relation to how the Italian dairy industry has reorganized over the past few years. However, I think I can say that we are faced with interventions on the public side that have never been developed with this strength and with this breadth. It is clear to me that we are only one step away and that there is still a lot of work to be done, especially in a European way. I am not at all satisfied with the fact that, in a European sense, there has been an awareness of the very difficult post-quota scenario. I believe that there is still a need for an initiative and surely we, with France, Spain and other countries, will ask the Commission to return to reflect on medium-term interventions to accompany the sector. It is not yet a question of rediscovering such quota mechanisms as those we have abandoned, but of certainly identifying mechanisms for stabilising the European market and, above all, helping the more specific contexts, such as the Italian ones and the Mediterranean ones, which have particular characteristics. This is an activity which must still be fully educated, which certainly cannot be considered resolved and which will see us as protagonists from the next European Council on Agriculture and Fisheries on 14 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u26	SAGGESE (PD). Minister, I am fully satisfied with the answer and I agree with you on the importance of the supply chain agreement. I think that the development of the sector and all future strategies and steps that we will have to take necessarily involve a dialogue between all the actors that make up the dairy sector. There will certainly be a lot of work to do, but, on the basis of this first step that has been achieved today, the premises are certainly good.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u29	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Minister, I find myself somewhat dissatisfied with the answer to the question that I put to you, because the solution you have found seems to me rather a leap of the flea, which in itself is remarkable, because I believe it is one of the animals that jumps higher (200 times the height of your body); but still a leap of the flea remains. Today, with the allocation of a cent or two margin on the cost of milk production, I challenge anyone to do business and earn income. It remains an unacceptable situation and we will see a continuous closure of our Italian stables and at the end of our good Italian milk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u32	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, I too do not feel particularly satisfied, as I want to be very polite. I had asked these questions on May 6, at sitting No. 444 (page 49 of the Stenographic Report) and I was never given exhaustive answers, as in this case as well. These are very concrete situations. We are talking about the 25 million European Union which, for 0.8 cents, is sufficient to pay 31.25 million quintals of milk, for the three months, and so we see that out of four cents of increase, we put two: one with VAT compensation and one with this maneuver. From this point of view I do not think it is a great victory and above all I have not heard of those structural methodologies in the medium and long term, which are the ones that solve the problems. The question is not solved by moving a penny onto a mountain of 111 million tons of milk. For IRAP there are 200 million on the plate for 250,000 causes: the famous 80 euros for each breeder.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u35	Formigoni (AP (NCD-UDC)). Madam President, I would also like to address my fellow Members: I believe that the news of the signing of the supply chain agreement should be a source of satisfaction for everyone. It is, I repeat, a supply chain agreement: they have signed agricultural organisations, cooperatives, industry and distribution. We know how difficult the land was and how earthquakeed it was, so I think we should all be satisfied with this, including the increase in milk remuneration (I'm not talking about rising prices, because someone might misunderstanding). So, great satisfaction on this side. I am also pleased with the awareness that the Minister has given about the difficulty of negotiating in Europe. There is no satisfaction with the results there, but the approach that the government is giving seems positive to me. Finally, I would like to insist with the Minister - he knows that I will insist - on the fact that we must at all costs try to find the funds for increasing investment, because the dairy sector also needs more investment on our part.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u38	STEFANO (Misto-PugliaMiù-Sel). Madam President, Minister, it is not in order to balance President Formigoni that I am not happy with the answers received, but because today's answers show my question, which was first of all the way in which the European extraordinary fund is shared. It is quite clear that Europe has given it to us as an extraordinary fund to turn to milk; it has not told us that it had to measure itself or project itself in the increase of one cent, that - I do not want to be bad, it is not part of my style - if we go to project it, we see that it will mainly address the dairy companies of a part of Italy, and specifically I point out its region of belonging, like that of President Formigoni who declares himself satisfied. Similarly, the agreement to fix the price of milk at 36 cents, which we are pleased to have registered with Lactalis today, is aimed at companies operating in an area of the country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You must conclude, Senator; you know that the times are set. STEFANO (Misto-PugliaMiù-Sel). I believe that in areas like mine, Puglia, as well as Campania and Basilicata, those 36 cents will remain a chimera. That is why I asked you whether it was not perhaps necessary to intervene rather with structural measures on the system in order to be able to relaunch a supply chain that is Italian and not only Lombardy.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u41	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr. Minister, you see, if we're satisfied or not, we'll tell you the next time we meet here in the matter time, because clearly the speech has to be seen with the producer. Citizens will also wonder if this increase in the cost of the milk that is paid will also correspond to the increase in the cost of the milk on the shelf. No, because Lactalis collects EUR 1.4 billion a year; therefore, they are huge costs compared to production. Madam President, Minister, we want to see the results: we have, however, the numbers, which tell us that the situation is very worrying, because only this year have closed about 1,000 stables and there are 4,000 jobs that have been lost. We want to see the results in a resumption of jobs and in a protection of the Italian product. When you lose our milk, 17,000 cows disappear for every million quintals of imported milk and 1,200 occupied. Depending on whether or not these data are reversed, we will be satisfied or not.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u42	Let us now turn to questions about the prospects of Italian agricultural companies after Expo 2015, which will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Dr. Martina.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u45	PIGNEDOLI (PD). Madam President, Minister, Expo was an extraordinary confirmation of the fact that Italian food has great potential and is among the most sought after in the world and that the sector has great prospects, but it has also given us the measure of the difference between what would serve our productive world and the extremely heterogeneous situation of our agricultural enterprises: many innovative, successful companies, examples of extraordinary renewal, but also too many production companies in suffering, even forced to close, while the demand for Made in Italy in the world grows. We have said about the difficulties of milk, we can talk about the Reggiano Parmesan of my lands, the meat sector and much of the fruit and vegetable sector, a paradox that must end, in order to enter a new time. Minister, I believe that Expo can be a real watershed if it convinces us to deal with the theme: the issue of the agricultural producer who equips himself, innovates, makes a leap of role and becomes a company, which accompanies, is protagonist, decides the price of his product, creates the value of it but also draws the right margin of income and does not leave it in the hands of others, equips itself to conquer market shares abroad and does not leave it in such high quantity in the hands of the professionals of the fake Italian. The producer-entrepreneur protagonist or co-protagonist of the whole process: this is the revolution that has to face the Italian agricultural system. From raw material, increasingly towards the finished product: this is the challenge of this time, because the greater increase in value takes place in the second phase of the value chain and selling raw or semi-finished raw material no longer gives income margins in our country. The higher market value increase takes place... PRESIDENT. You have to finish, Senator. PIGNEDOLI (PD). One minute, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She had two minutes, so we're running out of time. I'm sorry. PIGNEDOLI (PD). I misjudged, then. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You've misjudged. If necessary, you may attach your speech. PIGNEDOLI (PD). All right, I'll just finish by asking the question. As I said, the highest market value increase takes place at the stage when the raw material becomes a complete product. I therefore ask the Minister not only for individual measures (and there have been so many, and our Minister has worked for this up to the law of stability): today we have to ask ourselves what the overall strategy is to achieve a new time, so that producers, especially young farmers, become farmers.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u48	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, Minister, to be quick, I will skip the premise and get to the point. It must be kept in mind that structural and substantial funding is needed for the modernisation of agricultural holdings and that these resources are essential to relaunch a sector that is still in crisis, since in 2013 we had 9.2 percent less farms than in 2010 and between 2006 and 2014 there was a decrease in investment of 26 percent. The protagonists of the processes of structural, technological and management modernization of farms can only be young people, new entrepreneurs, collaborators and farmers of tomorrow, while it is necessary to remember the low use of incentives for the recruitment of young people in agriculture in Decree-Law No 91 of 2014 and the law of stability now under discussion, instead of revising and making the mechanism more convenient for the future, allocates the residual resources (well 24 million euros) to other purposes. I therefore ask you, Minister, with what interventions and resources the Government intends to relaunch the entrepreneurial initiative in the agricultural sector, whose added value still represents more than 2% of GDP and to what measures, corrective, complementary and additional to those already existing, the Government intends to take to support the generational turnover in agriculture, fundamental for the growth and the future of our farms.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u51	FACTORS (M5S). Madam President, in the aftermath of Expo, our feeling, which then became certain, was that it had been a great showcase, made of many wishes without any programming. In particular, the Milan Charter, which, unfortunately, has no institutional value, so that, not being as binding as the Kyoto Protocol could be, it cannot and must not remain the only result of an event that has required so much effort from citizens. In fact, while waiting for the publication of an exact budget of the event to understand both the cost-benefit ratio, and the effective return of investments for an event in the name of the devastation of the territory and the bad business, the multinational companies and the industrial agricultural sector have again been the owner, while for the organic sector and small farmers have arrived only sporadic and random contributions, without a planning that gives concreteness to those who, therefore, have been nothing but slogans. In addition, in the post Expo the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP), on which we have just held an unanswered hearing, with all the problems deriving from the protection of Made in Italy endangered by an agricultural culture, the intensive one of the United States, which is little compatible with our excellences. There would be a lot of poor assumptions and conclusions for this fair, but we suspend the judgment and wait for the final results. Instead, we would like to have precise answers on what are the real and detailed conditions of the TTIP Treaty, in line with the concepts of biodiversity, organic farming, small agriculture and food quality, remembering that the Expo was sponsored by McDonald's. We would also like to know what is access to food in terms of medium and long-term planning; what is the plan for the recovery and development of small agriculture and the extent of investment in the short and medium-term for it and what are the real instruments of protection against TTIP. We would like to have some concrete answers from you.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u54	WRITER IN TOR (AP) (NCD-UDC). Madam President, Minister, the Milan Universal Exhibition that has just ended has certainly been an important factor in the visibility of the Italian agri-food sector and has marked a significant step for the whole country. Beyond, however, the positive balance of the event, it is now a question of consolidating and realising its thrust towards the Italian primary sector. The agricultural enterprises, both those participating or represented in the exhibition, and those that have not been personally involved, need a support and a valorization that can take advantage of the experience gained, the exchanges and the contacts close during the Expo. We welcomed the presentation of the plan for the after Expo announced by the Government, with a significant economic investment and with the enhancement of the exhibition area. However, I believe that further steps must be taken to ensure that agricultural, food and environmental research and training is translated into concrete initiatives in favour of Italian agricultural companies. The law of stability and the maneuver of public finance for the coming years, which is being examined by Parliament, is characterized by important measures, especially on the fiscal side, for the sector. There are also incentive measures from the point of view of promoting products abroad. The parliamentary examination has already allowed, since the first reading, to enrich from this point of view the contents of the draft laws. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It would be better to ask the question. WRITER IN TOR (AP) (NCD-UDC). Yes. I would remind you that the Committee on Agriculture has also made observations and comments. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, what further concrete steps your Dicastery and the Executive as a whole intend to take in order not to disperse the legacy of Expo and to give Italian agri-food excellence the importance they deserve.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u57	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Minister, the prospects of Italian companies in the post Expo cannot, of course, be without regard to the protection of Made in Italy. It is clear that if we talk about prospects, we can only talk about how to protect and defend our products. We know very well that the vision within the European Union is very different depending on whether it is a producer country, such as Italy, or a transformer country. We insist very much that the government must commit itself to ensuring that, in Europe, the regulations regulate the distinction of the product at origin in a more serious and severe way. Unfortunately, we often find ourselves on the shelves products that sound like Italians, but have a different content than what they let believe. On this, Minister, we ask you what action you intend to take and what action the Government is taking, given that both the six months of the Expo and the previous six months have been unsuccessfully spent with the Italian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Minister, if you do not go very seriously to protect and protect our product, even after the Expo the opportunities that arise from the induced will be seized by other subjects, who will instead make counterfeiting. We therefore ask you to give a clear signal and we ask you what operations you are doing, given that the European Union also offers margins. A country, in fact, can choose, within the European regulations, whether to provide for further mandatory indications, with particular reference to the country of origin or the place of origin of food, where there is a proven link between certain qualities of the food and its origin or origin, and this is considered relevant to consumers. Indeed, it is important, President: to call Parma ham only the ham made in Parma is very important: otherwise, it is a counterfeit product.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u60	DE PIN (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI)). Madam President, illustrious Minister, many Italian agricultural enterprises, especially small ones, are going through a time of great difficulty, due to the change in the socio-political and economic scenario of reference. The difficulties are reflected in clear signs of suffering: increasing uncertainty in the placement of agricultural products, price stagnation, increased costs, difficulties in identifying economically viable production mixes, increased indebtedness, and inability to finance investment. This uncertainty affects the whole system, so that several small businesses can close down and cease their business. I would just like to mention a figure from Coldiretti, according to which 60 farms close a day: from here to 2050 they will all be gone. The 2015 Expo was a showcase and an opportunity to create very interesting relationships, but we do not believe that it has been resolving the problems of these small farms related to agriculture. I ask, therefore, which agriculture imagines the Government for the future and, above all, whether these companies will have a future. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Dr Martina.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u61	Madam President, I would also like to thank and thank the interrogators for this opportunity of discussion. I think I can say that the Expo was a winning test for our country. It was not at all obvious that this would happen, both for organizational reasons and for the complexity of an event that, for six long months, has committed many resources and attention, from all points of view. I believe that simply recalling what we are experiencing today, in the international context, and recalling that event, with the complexity of the timing that characterized it, as it went, perhaps it would be worth recognising that we have offered a great test. We owe this first of all to the many operators who have worked there with great attention, and I think of the Forces of Order but not only. I also believe that we have been interpreters of a new idea of universal exhibition, which more than other editions has had a very strong civil, public and institutional content. The activity that Italy has promoted on this topic is often drawn up, also through the Milan Charter and other acts of commitment of this nature, but I would like to point out that, in the history of the universal exhibitions, there is no edition that has interpreted the theme with the load and meaning, all civil and institutional, which has instead been represented by Italy. Banally, try asking the international community if it remembers what the topic was, for example, of the last Chinese universal exhibition in 2010. There is a big difference between how we tried to maximize as much as possible the strong content value of the theme "Feeding the planet, energy for life" and how we linked the universal exposure to great facts and international institutional passages. I am thinking, in particular, of the United Nations General Assembly which took place last September, which redefined the objectives of the millennium, the appointment on Addis Ababa's international cooperation and the next stage of COP21 in Paris. If you arrive at the next appointments with a capacity to read the global food issue and the great perspective linked to the sustainability of development models is also because in Europe an event was promoted, such as the Universal Exhibition of Milan, full of content and where everyone had a voice. I will not mention large companies, I would like to mention the 300,000 Italian farmers who crossed those avenues and were protagonists, like others, of that story and of that idea. I would like to mention the 50,000 meetings between Italian and international companies that have developed thanks to the large exhibition platform, the export data of the first nine months of 2015, which indicate the absolute record of 24 billion euros of agri-food exports and the data of ISTAT, which tell us that in the first six months of 2015 we had 16,000 new workers in agriculture. Is all this enough? Of course not. Is it enough to say that a sector such as the primary sector can emerge from the difficult passage that it is going through, especially with regard to certain supply chains? Definitely not. However, I think it is wrong not to recognize that the Universal Exhibition was a formidable opportunity to reread the Italian agricultural model and find some keys to development and investment. It is enough to hear, for example, how many consortia of our territories have had, thanks to Expo, the opportunity to strengthen their policies of internationalization and to develop contacts, projects and agendas full of opportunities to be verified. Nobody gives us anything, but there is no doubt that the Italian agri-food system, alongside the Italian system, has made the best use of this opportunity to try to accelerate some processes of reorganization. Of course, the bulk of this work begins now. I have had the opportunity to say - and I believe that we can share this view - that the six months of the Universal Exposition were the months of sowing and certainly not of the harvest. Now we must first of all cultivate well what we have sown there and then the harvest time will come, but there are opportunities to make a qualitative leap both on the organizational side (many chains must be reorganized - we talked about it first - and I think that the dairy sector is the emblem of this need) and on the strengthening of policies for internationalization. The extraordinary plan for the internationalization of Made in (which, thanks also to your vote, has been refinanced by the last law of stability) is consistent with the strategy that this country has given itself thanks to Expo. Let me say that for the first one we select the areas of intervention, we describe a strategy not only for large enterprises, but also for small and medium-sized enterprises, we give priorities and we face the world in general terms, not in general terms, but trying to deepen some scenarios above all. The same novelties contained in the bill of stability, to which I do not intend to return, are daughters of the Expo season. We could never have realized a measure of stability so strongly agricultural without the push of the six months of Expo and without having assumed all the agricultural and agro-food issues giving a close correlation between the event and the public, institutional and also economic-financial choice of a Government that engages on this side in extraordinary terms. Giving the primary sector EUR 800 million, as we are doing with the stability bill, was certainly not an obvious fact and so I believe that this should be remembered and valued. As well as, we must remember the commitments that we are called to define precisely even in the coming weeks. I am thinking of the law, which we must absolutely close, for the protection of agricultural land in this country and the national law against food waste; of course, I am also thinking of all the activity that needs to be further developed on the road to traceability and labelling. This issue has been recalled by some senators and I simply want to say that Italy is the country that by far more than other European states is also engaging with Europe an initiative aimed at further perfecting the face of recognizability (through labels and not only) of all the agri-food experience, protecting its particular characteristics. It is not a trivial fact that this country, unlike others, in the months of Expo has restored the compulsory indication of the establishment on the label; it is not a trivial fact that precisely in the months of Expo this country has definitively prohibited the possibility of making cheese without milk; it is not a trivial fact that this is the only European country that, responding exactly to the possibility that Europe draws us, in its general rules on labelling, in relation to the origin of the raw material, has carried out that famous questionnaire of verification of the indications that the consumer gives regarding this information. This is a necessary first step in order to be able to actually implement specific national legislation, which is the result of an overall review which Europe is calling for to be carried out through a referendum, and therefore directly with consumers. When we opened the consultation with the citizens for the verification of the indications we did not make a thought that was not consistent with the need to then engage with Europe the second step: that was exactly the basis for being able to work on this front and we did so. More than 40,000 citizens responded to that questionnaire and pointed out that we are the only country that has carried out this census. This is to say that I confirm here the determination of the Government to work because the Expo season opens concretely an agenda of commitments on the Italian agricultural and agri-food perspective, which allows us to build this qualitative leap between the Italian agricultural and agri-food chains, which certainly must find mechanisms of organization and innovation, but also for the entire Italian agricultural and agri-food model. I am not here to recall, for example, how fundamental it has been for us to live the exhibition semester and to understand in that place how the Italian agricultural model can work on certain frontiers of innovation. I quote one for all: we understood thanks to Expo that one of the fundamental levers for the future of the model will be precision agriculture and its ability to penetrate to the bottom, with appropriate technological innovations and instruments, in the Italian territorial agricultural models. From there was born, for example, a work path that will go on in these months and that will lead us to the first Italian project applied to precision agriculture, building a package of interventions and a precise timing. Let me also say that it is precisely thanks to the exhibition semester that we have rightly marked, in my opinion, the fundamental points of innovation on the quality and legality of agricultural work: I am thinking in particular also of the interventions that we have structured to combat black work and the caporalate. There is a deep connection between these interventions and I think that they all call into question the will, in particular of this Government, to make the agricultural and agri-food sector one of the fundamental pillars of the development of this country. It's not all taken for granted. We know that we still face very complicated battles and that we also inherit very complex situations of disorganization and unresolved nodes for too many years, but I am convinced that with the initiative we have taken and with the push that the Universal Exposition has given us, we are on the right path. Of course, all the ideas, proposals and suggestions that come from Parliament in particular are absolutely welcome. Indeed, I believe that our ability to read together the evolution of the perspective of the primary sector also helps us to map out the course of the Government's commitment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They now have the power to answer the questions, for one minute each.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u64	PIGNEDOLI (PD). Minister, I share and acknowledge the value of Expo, which I have even called a watershed between before and after, for the level of confrontation you mentioned and for the vastness of those who participated. I am satisfied with your response because I have found a great determination to address an extraordinary innovation plan for agriculture based on quality, product distinctiveness, tradition and technology and efficiency of public instruments. A new organization, a new future, a new beginning, which was what you yourself wished for. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the great work you have done yourself, which I believe has led to the great success of this event of ours, of which we are all very proud.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u67	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I am pragmatic, I come from the agriculture sector and I have been hearing about precision agriculture for at least ten years, and I have also worked professionally in this direction. Unfortunately, however, I have the impression that the Expo, even with its success, can represent that well-known speech that reads: "passed the feast, gabbato the saint". Alas, agriculture needs practical answers and 10% less farms in five years, 26% less investment and 24 million with the last budget allocated for other purposes do not seem to me to be concrete responses to agriculture. Allow me, but I am practical and agriculture needs immediate and prompt answers.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u70	FACTORS (M5S). I wouldn't like to take it out on the Minister, who enthusiastically came to us with the Expo commercial, but didn't answer at all the very precise question I had asked. The Expo was the Expo of multinational companies and therefore of industrial agriculture and everything that will follow will be plowed and paved by the future Transatlantic trade and investment partnership (TTIP), which will lead to supranational legislation. So I wanted an answer on how you want to organize the post Expo in view of this treaty that no one knows anything about. I note that even on this occasion I am not answered to this question as I am not answered at international level, but sooner or later you will have to come to terms with yourself: all this will change when the TTIP is ratified and will negate any effort that has been made without taking it into account. I would like the Minister to answer me about this sooner or later.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u73	WRITER IN TOR (AP) (NCD-UDC). Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I am pleased with your reply and I believe that the subject of the Expo does not have a beginning or an end, but it is the subject that every day, in the coming years and perhaps even later, we will have to move forward. I see your commitment and for this reason I believe that my Group is also willing to continue to work, because this sector is fundamental for our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u76	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). You see, Minister, if you have a good product or a good product but wait to consume it, if that product was fresh too, when it is too late. For too long we have heard about the protection of Made in Italy and investments that, however, do not give results in terms of protection, not promotion, do not give us satisfaction because you see, Minister, if you still spend other funds to promote Made in Italy and others pirate the made in Italy by introducing in the food market products that are not Italian, you have simply promoted the fake made in Italy. However, strict action is needed to ensure that consumers can choose from labelling. After that, we can say that we have taken a step forward. Once again I say to her: we want to see results; if there are, we will be satisfied, otherwise we will still be here to remind her that we cannot simply make announcements but we must give concreteness to the commitments.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u79	DE PIN (GAL (GS, PPI, FV, M, MBI)). Mr Minister, I do not question your good will, which you have seen, but I am certainly also dissatisfied. I will only make two clarifications. First of all, I think that in particular the Commissioners of the Agriculture Commission would like a detailed report of what the Expo was, a budget or data, which we do not have. Secondly, I too listened to Commissioner Cecilia Malmström and I believe that trusting this person to protect our Made in Italy and the biodiversity and qualities we have in our landscape is absurd and ridiculous. I'm very worried about this Damocles sword that's TTIP.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u80	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. I thank Minister Martina for his helpfulness and all the interrogations.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u81	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2015-11-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-544.ana.u82	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 1 December, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.07 p.m.
